ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on further reading, of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet (No. 1135, 1175). The remaining time for discussion of this text is six hours and eleven minutes for the moving Republic Group, 106 of which are under discussion; five hours forty minutes for the Republican Group, of which 430 amendments are under discussion; one hour thirty-nine minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which five amendments are under discussion; two hours thirty-eight minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, 105 of which amendments are under discussion; one hour fifty-eight minutes for the Socialist and Related Group, of which 51 amendments are under discussion; two hours four minutes for the La France group, 23 of which are under discussion; one hour fifty-one minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 30 amendments are under discussion; one hour for non-attached Members, of which 93 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u2	Last night, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u3	Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "In the beginning was the Word. Unless it was: "In the beginning was the Dream. » "The general states of food have two objectives: the first, to allow farmers to live at the fair price paid, to allow everyone in the value chain to live in dignity; and the second, to allow everyone to have access to a healthy, sustainable, safe diet. And what I want us to start from today is not to implement a series of technical adjustments, [...] but that we can collectively decide on a profound paradigm shift. [...] Therefore, in order to enable farmers to weigh in the negotiations, market indicators, production costs and standard contracts per sector must be defined. Price formation in each sector must be objective. The strengthening of the Price and Margin Observatory is also necessary to accompany them and the channels must allow all farmers to have easy access to this information. » The words I have just reported to you, ladies and gentlemen, are those of the President of the Republic, delivered in Rungis on 11 October 2017. It was then declining – I could almost say it was psalmodifying – the great measures that were to be contained in the bill that we are looking at again today. Of course, I do not believe in miracles, nor in the miracle of contracting – I will come back to that in a few moments. However, when there is also a clear promise of progress on the content of contracts, on the obligation to define market indicators and production costs, "new world" or not, we are trying to meet our commitments. A year later, however, what can we say with this text? The gradual dilution of commitments. Article 1, paragraph 15, of the text reads as follows: "Interprofessional organizations may develop or disseminate such indicators which may serve as reference indicators. They may, where appropriate, be based on the observatory referred to in Article L. 682-1 [of the Rural and Maritime Code] or on the establishment referred to in Article L. 621-1", i.e. on the Observatory of Prices and Margins and on FranceAgriMer. "Can", "can", "can"; the verb "debt" thus miraculously transformed itself into the verb "power". That changes a lot, ladies and gentlemen, because "power" and "duty" do it is not exactly the same! In the beginning was the Word. In the beginning was the Dream... Let us therefore continue this exegesis of renunciation. On October 11, 2017, the "Master of Clocks" also presented another requirement: visibility for producers. I quote again: "I hope that the essential contract-making that I have just mentioned can also be done on a multi-annual basis. [...] No one can transform his productive model by having an annual, sometimes infra-annual, visibility on the purchase prices. And so I hope that the trade negotiations will be part of a multi-year contract that these contracts will carry, which will give visibility to all the players in the chain and thus enable the necessary reorganizations for each and every one of them. We will therefore encourage multi-year contracting over three to five years, which will allow us to break out of uncertainty and project ourselves. » Although I have sought, in the text before us, the obligation of a multi-annual contract, or even a simple encouragement, it is not included in it. Only the requirement to include in contracts "the duration of the contract or framework agreement" is included. In the beginning was the Word. In the beginning was the Dream... Last quote from Jupiterian, also on 11 October 2017: "The State will take responsibility for the full implementation of the provisions of the law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, with effective control and sanctions effectively applied. It is not acceptable for some companies not to comply with the law by not publishing their accounts, for example, and thereby distorting the reality of discussion in a sector. As such, the administration will proceed with the injunctions and fines prescribed by law. » The President said: "will proceed". What do we find in paragraph 3 of Article 5d of the text? "Where the officers of a commercial company that transforms agricultural products, markets food products, operates, directly or indirectly, one or more retail stores of consumer goods or intervenes in the distribution sector as a reference or purchasing centre for retail enterprises do not deposit the accounts under the conditions and time limits set out in Articles L. 232-21 to L. 232-23 [of the Commercial Code], the President of the commercial court may issue an injunction to that company to do so without delay under penalty. We read well: "Can." If I make the choice to start my speech with the Presidential Word or, rather, with the verbatim of Rungis' speech, it is in order to reflect the gradual shift that has taken place between the flight of initial commitments and the legislative landing; It is to understand why, after raising many hopes, this bill and the whole agricultural policy that you have been conducting for the past year, minister, are being so severely criticized. For these semantic slippages, removed from the text, are indicative of a double renunciation: the renunciation to take into account the reality of the power relations that currently structure the agricultural and food sector; the renunciation of the imposition of a return of public power and of the legislator in order to counter the alien domination of the actors of the downstream, large distribution and major transnational groups of the agri-food industry. Nevertheless, let us recognize the President of the Republic as a visionary, since he wanted to clarify, still on 11 October 2017, that what he wanted to implement was not "a series of technical adjustments". The fear was justified because, in the end, this text is essentially a series of technical adjustments, which will, as such, have no effect on the overall balance of trade relations in the food sector. I, for my part, have always been very reserved on the intrinsic capacity of contracting to solve economic and commercial problems which are structural in the agricultural field, so specific, which, on the contrary, should be excluded from the competition rules. My conviction, our conviction, the conviction of the Communist Members of Parliament, is that there must be other, far more coercive, avenues for public intervention. On the other hand, the positioning you are taking today will lead to a text that is certainly very technical, but, in fact, devoid of the least efficiency in terms of the balance of trade relations. It will in no way alter the balance of power – agricultural organizations are not mistaken. This text will not change anything, or it will only change things at the margin, because it remains part of an economic model that favours the strongest. But, let us be lucid, this renunciation is first and foremost a consented impotence – I say well: a consented impotence. Because, even after Rungis' speech, the main actors never feared that they would have to change their abusive practices that were harmful to producers. Barely had trade started in the trade sectors on the distribution of margins and possible indicators taking into account the production costs that processors and large-scale distribution have affected. This is attested at the beginning of September by the declaration of the National Federation of Milk Producers: "We are supposed to agree on indicators of valorisation of all milk markets: it is written black on white in the sector plans signed by all parties... and yet the processors refuse this necessary transparency. » Lactalis, world leader in dairy products, openly confirms this: "We agree on a public price indicator. But we reserve the right to modulate prices to producers according to the market. "Depending on the market": the loop is closed. As for mass distribution, we don't even hear its representatives talk anymore. That is to say, Minister, if they are afraid of the implementation of the text! They can continue to communicate, at the head of gondola, on their "commitments for more respectful and peaceful trade relations", on "dialogue with the supplier" and on "trust in the relationship", values fully respected – we know, we see, we see... – in each of the current trade negotiations! What we have to say and say again, ladies and gentlemen, is that the successive reforms of the common agricultural policy and trade policy at European level, as well as the national variations in these political choices, have made "free and undistorted" competition the central lever of trade organisation. It is these choices that have logically led to the disappearance of the mechanisms for regulating production and prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u5	Farmers, the first victims, but also consumers, have thus become a simple adjustment variable in the profit-making war waged by transnational food and distribution groups. This war unravels the whole value chain. This war undermines any construction of a sustainable and just agricultural policy for producers. This war weakens the entire French agri-food sector, yet strategic for the national economy in terms of jobs, trade balance, but also the structuring of our territory. But the greatest political hypocrisy is revealed in the observation that France, a government after government, has not only accompanied this path of liberalization of agricultural trade, but has even done everything possible to increase the deregulation of commercial activities. And at this point, ladies and gentlemen, you will still allow me to make a brief historical reminder. Exactly ten years ago, in 2008 – yes, I was already on those benches! –, the Chatel law, then the law of modernization of the economy, called LME, directly inspired by the work of the Attali commission "for the liberation of French growth", served as support to increase the pressure on suppliers in trade negotiations and, by ricochet, on producers. Curiously, the representatives of the major transnational groups, including some of the processing and agri-food sectors, made up the bulk of this Attali Commission, which, as you can see, displayed colour in the introduction of its report: "This is not a report, nor a study, but a way of using it for urgent and founding reforms. He is neither partisan nor bipartisan: he is non-partisan. The formula must probably remind you of something. The deputy rapporteur-general of this committee was a very young financial inspector. I think, at the risk of being wrong, his name was Macron. Yeah, I think...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u6	Emmanuel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u7	Yes, Macron Emmanuel. Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u8	What a talent! And what a memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u9	Do I, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have to push the vice up to remind you of the proposals defended at the time by the Attali-Macron or Macron-Attali Committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u10	That wouldn't be reasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u11	Let's push the vice so far. Measure 202: "Introduction of tariff freedom". Measure 203: "Delete the so-called "loss resale" ban". And then, the pinnacle of the show, measures 204: "Repealing the devices of the commercial code that hinder the free negotiation of commercial conditions between suppliers and distributors".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u12	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u13	Repeal the devices of the commercial code... You will no doubt understand why the main economic operators of the sector do not have much to worry about when they analyze a bill dictated by the Elysée and which, in its sections 9 and 10, systematically refers to orders any raising of the threshold of resale at a loss and all – I say all – the provisions of framework of promotional practices and general conditions of sale. Of course, they must be afraid... Ten years ago, during the discussions on the LME, we Communist Members were firmly opposed to the liberalisation of trade relations in view of the structuring of agricultural and agri-food sectors, with excessive concentration of purchasing power plants, a fabric of scattered SMEs and poorly organized producers. We have to believe that we were, as often, right too early.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u14	This is often the case, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u15	At the time, we announced a contract that could not win for all parties, as it was left to market forces alone. In 2010, during the review of the law of modernization of agriculture, presented by... – I am looking for the name. Who was Minister of Agriculture in 2010? Yes, Bruno Le Maire! –, I had again insisted on the glamour of the contracting, the fox being ever more free in the henhouse! [[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] We see eight years later how much trade relations have been favourable to producers. We must remember what we were promised at the time about contracting and remember what the former Minister of Agriculture Bruno Le Maire could say in this forum. Since then, we have been constantly proposing the establishment of tools to enable public authorities, farmers and interbranch to intervene directly in the construction of purchase prices. Annual conference, definition of floor prices, multiplier coefficient, triggering a framework of distribution margins in the event of a crisis... These common-sense tools are always rejected by liberal dogmatism, while they are the only ones able to push out power relations that are totally unfavourable to producers. We will continue to defend them after the adoption of this minimalist text and even before, during our discussions. Overall, we have a fairly clear view of the margins of each of the players, even if some continue not to want to pass on their accounts, and if we are not fooled by the many mechanisms that allow us to camouflage the details of the companies' accounts. But while the legislator continues to intervene in an attempt to restore "loyalty" or "balance" of commercial relations, it does not want to transform in depth the relations of power. The text we are debating today is not beyond the rule. If some disappoint in view of its content, it is that after the fine presidential exhortations of the general states of food, you touch, minister, the limits of the exercise of communication. As you know, everyone knows, we will not even take the first step on the road to a rebalancing, even partial, of the distribution of value added to the benefit of producers. But we understand that you are in a difficult, if not painful, position, Mr Minister, rapporteur, stuck that you are between the hammer of financial interests and the promises without tomorrow of your eminent presidential mentor, stuck and in any case far from what the farmers expected. We see with this text, as with all the others, that the promised new world is simply that of neoliberal doctrine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u17	All doctrine, just doctrine, and in the end, a legislative landing completely different from the flights of communication! Is it related to a fundamental part of your agricultural policy that is not covered by the text, with the exception of a fleeting paragraph in Article 11 undecies? I am referring to the unimpeded pursuit of openness to international trade. On this point, again in the beginning, on 11 October 2017, the President of the Republic had been very clear. He warned: "I also want to be very clear about the implementation of CETA, it will [...] fully comply with European standards on health and the environment to prevent unfair competition in the European market. And so to be very clear, [...] in so far as the French and European regulations prohibit the marketing of a [...] product, of course it will prohibit it for all products imported through CETA and the controls will be drastic in this respect! And no commercial treaty offers you a right that is less than what you oppose to your own actors. So there are sometimes misunderstandings or counter-truths on this subject that I want to fully lift here. The conditions laid down in the expert report will be fully implemented as of next week, but all European law, all our environmental, health and safety standards concern all sectors that are yours, will of course be fully defended and respected by all products imported under this Treaty as well as under any trade treaty. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u18	In the beginning was the Word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Beautiful! What a strong commitment of the President of the Republic! And what a challenge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u20	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u21	What a lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u22	But what are you going to do, Minister, to control and prohibit any importation of meat from animals fed to animal meal or treated with antibiotics in each of the commercial treaties under negotiation? What means?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u23	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u24	What will you do tomorrow, after the signing of the ten current free trade agreements, since the President of the Republic wishes that "all our environmental, health and safety standards which " concern all sectors" be "defended and respected by all imported products"? What will you do tomorrow, Minister? How will you prevent the entry into our market of plant and animal productions which have included in their production cycle or via animal feed the use of neonicotinoids or products with "modes of action identical to those of the family of neonicotinoids", mentioned in article 14 septies of the text? How do you intend to prohibit any production that has been produced on glyphosate-treated plots? In the beginning was the Word. In the beginning was the Dream. When we know the extent of the social and environmental dumping that accompanies the unbridled pursuit of the opening up of the European agricultural market, we too enjoy dreaming, dreaming of the full implementation of the Elysean word. That is why we will propose to you, in full consistency with the commitments of the President of the Republic, to prohibit by amendment to Article 11 undecies any free trade agreement which violates the principles of reciprocity and equality in terms of production conditions. But my haunting, Minister, is to see you refuse to lift the political hypocrisy of power in this area. As imports are now one of the major, if not essential, levers of transnational groups in the agri-food and distribution industry to ensure their strategies of margins and financial profitability. That is why most of the political communication work of the past few months has been to maintain the illusion of voluntarism in the service of producers – a voluntarism that would take place on the basis of a simple evolution of domestic trade law, but of course concealing the substance of the economic policies supported at Community and international level. A big gap that is very well summed up in this question – I think, minister, that you will answer – can we promise farmers a remunerative price and at the same time increase imports?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u25	It's paradoxical!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u26	Yes, "at the same time." You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, by surfing the purchase of agricultural products at very low prices, and therefore at very low wages, without any requirement as to social, environmental and health conditions, the war of profitability waged by the major transnational groups is based on the permanent conquest of margins on processing and distribution. And this import strategy is built on two feet: Community competition in the absence of harmonisation of social and environmental production conditions within the European Union; extra-Community competition with the recent deployment of new free trade agreements. The forced conduct of negotiations of bilateral EU free trade agreements with nearly a dozen countries around the world is a new and colossal step in opening up to imports, at the sole service of transnational agri-food and distribution industries, in conjunction with other economic sectors. Evidence of this is the hearing by our Assembly of Phil Hogan, European Commissioner for Agriculture, on October 10, 2017, the eve of Rungis' speech, on the consequences of the free trade treaty with Canada, CETA. The Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and others, perhaps, were gathered to listen to it. What did he tell us with a natural disarming? "Compromise and concessions must be made in agricultural matters so that the financial and industrial sectors, which create jobs in France and elsewhere in Europe, also benefit from these agreements. » Thus spoke Phil Hogan on 10 October 2017 in the French National Assembly. It's all there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u27	Yes! It's all there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u28	This can be justified without rehabilitating the duty-free arrival of an additional 50,000 tonnes of Canadian beef from animals fattened with animal meal and antibiotics. There is no justification for the arrival of an additional 100,000 tonnes, mainly of Brazilian origin, in the framework of the agreement with the countries of MERCOSUR – the Common Market of the South – at the time of the health scandals on damaged meats on the world market.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u30	And what, Minister, about the opening of negotiations with Australia and New Zealand, two countries that have already flooded the sheepmeat market in the last 20 years, but which will not fail to assert their new interests? You see it, as many actors in the agricultural world and in civil society, we consider the content of this text very harshly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u31	There's work to do...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u32	We consider it all the more severe as we see a large gap between its content and the initial announcements. The legal technicality of its sixty pages cannot mask the extreme weakness of the public tools and means put in place to "turn the logic of price construction". More state was needed to accompany the price's production: you answered "more contracts and commercial law", but without real constraints. And what is gravissimus is that you have a mortiferous illusion; an illusion that leads to a hijacking of the root causes of the economic and trade imbalances in the agricultural and food sector; an illusion to conceal your desire to apply neoliberal potions to agriculture, as opposed to the requirement to reject them in order to meet the challenges of sustainable agriculture in France, in Europe, as well as in the world. By fully subscribing to the mould of dominant economic thought, you condemn yourself to impotence. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This applies both at French level and in terms of your European action. Politically, the agricultural exception must be defended. It is necessary to remove from the claws of the markets and from the global competition an activity that meets a fundamental need of humanity. But rather than pushing liberal Europe, you are sinking into the mould of what you believe to be the Community rule. France can do much more, but you refuse to fight. The last few weeks have shown us, you refuse to face the powers of money, the dominant lobbys. As I say, I fear that your attitude will lead tomorrow to abandon the only integrated European policy that remains, the CAP. I will oppose – the Communist Members will oppose – strongly this abandonment, which would condemn any implementation of a sustainable agricultural transition on the altar of free trade. [[Members of the GDR Group rise and applaud. – Ms Jeanine Dubie also applauds]] In the beginning was the Word. In the beginning was the Dream. Tomorrow will inevitably come the hour of contrition, but it will be too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u33	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u34	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Agriculture and Food Act is first of all about giving our farmers more value, but it is also about accelerating the transformation towards healthier food and greener agriculture. We demand the progress achieved through our parliamentary proposals. Some examples include: 20% bio and 50% other quality labels in school canteens, the ban on fourth-generation bee killer pesticides, the elimination of certain substances harmful to health, the end of deceptive mentions on honey, new measures against food waste... The list is long, although we are well aware that we need to go further on other issues, such as compensation for the victims of plant protection products. One subject crystallized the debates: glyphosate. On 28 May, at first reading, many remember that, together with forty-four Members of Parliament from the Republic on the move, we had carried the inscription in the law of the release of glyphosate in three years, with derogations so as not to leave any farmer without a solution. Other colleagues in our group preferred first to rely on the mobilisation, as necessary, of actors. Some, on other benches, would have wanted the question of glyphosate not to be mentioned in the discussions on this text, which in our view was inconceivable. Indeed, we know that this strong commitment of the President of the Republic is very important for health and that citizens pay particular attention to it. And we also knew how inclusion in the law could not be an objective, but a useful means. But don't do the game again: let's move on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u36	That amendment had not been put to the vote. However, it has undoubtedly contributed to the political debate on the conditions for the implementation of this presidential commitment, which has since been reaffirmed. What have we achieved through this amendment and parliamentary discussions, as well as the mobilisation of citizens and actors? First, in the days that followed, the clear and clear commitment of the entire Government and the majority to impose, within a little more than a year now, a ban on the law if the progress achieved by that time was not rapid enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u38	Secondly, the drawing up and launching at the end of June, by the Ministers for Agriculture and Ecology, of an action plan for the release of glyphosate, including new and emblematic measures, including the creation of a resource centre for farmers, the strengthening of support measures for farmers, the regular monitoring of quantities sold and used in France, for greater transparency, and the strengthening of our advocacy in Europe. The third step was the launch, at the end of July, of the Ecophyto II+ plan by the four ministers concerned. In particular, this plan provides for a past – wrongly – unnoticed provision: from now on, renewals of marketing authorisations for products containing glyphosate will no longer be issued by the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency – ANSES – only for a maximum of three years, and will not be renewed for uses for which alternatives already exist, which concern more than 80% of the surfaces. It is an instruction, in the process of finalisation, essential and innovative. We know what these advances – the action plan for the release of glyphosate and the Ecophyto II+ plan – owe in particular to Nicolas Hulot and his teams. Fourthly, the mobilization of channels whose commitments, under negotiation with the Government, will be made public in the coming days and will show, I hope, the reality of voluntarism. Fifth, the launch of a parliamentary mission in late September to follow the reality of the release of glyphosate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Everyone will judge, in conscience or posture, the interest of these five advances. We believe that they deserve to be acted on, that they can make it possible to move in the right direction without delay and at the right pace. We have therefore decided not to repeat the game, in other words not to resubmit the same amendment as at first reading. He would certainly have had the same fate, without finding a majority. On the other hand, be sure, if the actions of each of us were to be wrong, we would be tabling a bill next September to formalize the prohibition in the law. This is our group's collective commitment. He'll be held.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u39	It's good, it's getting better like good wine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u40	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u41	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore at the time of the new reading, which approves more than one year of work started here in the summer of 2017. I do not want to seem redundant – several colleagues have spoken before me in this forum, differently, perhaps even better than I will. We have told you what we thought, what seems to us to be the flaws of this text and which we always intend to correct by way of an amendment. First of all, I will mention the consolidation of price indicators, which are not secured by the reference to the Observatory for the formation of prices and margins, a consolidation which you insist on refusing. I am also thinking of the impact of the generalization of a form of bio in our canteens. I am saying a "form of organic" because at the moment there is no guarantee that our children's plates will not be composed tomorrow of so-called "organic" production from Russia or Asia, economic zones where the rules of organic farming are completely different from the standards of France and the European Union. Finally, I am thinking of putting at risk some of the economic players in our territories, who will soon lose the double mission of consulting and selling, which will have the perverse effect of bringing the big multinationals closer to the chemical industry to our farmers and charging them additional costs. [["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, I have therefore decided to use this forum to carry the voice of a worn-out peasant world, weary, crushed by the weight of standards, the proliferation of competition distortion situations or the dismal image that some media and social networks have given of them – a caricature fueled by the amendments and the statements on behalf presented here, at first reading, by some Members of your ranks. We want to make our farmers look like polluters, poisoners, murderers: what hypocrisy! What a hypocrisy when half of the food that makes up the French plate, of what we eat every day, is imported from countries where health laxism prevails, where the use of plant protection products is twenty times greater than what is applied in France. A farmer does not treat his field for pleasure, he does it under duress and, in France more than elsewhere, with a lot of reason and respect for the one who makes him live: the land. Minister, I am talking to you about this peasant world, which receives every month, every week, the bad news of climate, economics, politics, regulations, which always cast a little more light on the future of this profession and exclude the vocations of young buyers. I am talking to you about this peasant world panicked by the threats to the CAP budget, the founding foundation of our European Union: the announced reduction of 40 billion in the CAP budget at European level would be a disaster for the whole sector, without exception. While some point at the place of lobbyists in politics, I ask you, Minister, to be a lobbyist in Brussels to defend our CAP budget. I'm talking about this peasant world that is worried about the removal, on January 1, 2019, of the burden reliefs for farmers recruiting seasonal workers, TODEs – casual workers – job seekers. The smoothing scheme that you are preparing in your 2019 finance bill will not compensate farmers for the loss, i.e. 189 euros per season per month, i.e. almost 180 million euros of additional costs for the entire industry. However, the cost of labour is not alien to the difficulties in recruiting seasonal workers which have occurred in recent weeks throughout France: it is 27% higher than in Germany, 37% higher than in Italy. Lightening loads by TODE means making recruitment easier and choosing the "win-win" Mr Minister, I could address many other issues, where there is so much to be done, such as the development of bio-fuels, which offer new outlets, additional sources of income for our farmers, or competition from Belgian patatiers, who come to rent land in the Hauts-de-France and cultivate unregistered plants, thereby raising the risk of black summerfallow, but we will have an opportunity to discuss them in the next few hours, by examining the amendments. For several months now, we have been working on the EGALIM bill, which is designed to strengthen the competitiveness and incomes of our farmers. At the same time, as we speak, the special committee on the PACTE bill – on business growth and transformation – is conducting its work. Let us stick to this logic, let us not penalise our agricultural enterprises. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Beyond the postures, the communication effects and the partisan ulterior thinking, let us make this text effective, ladies and gentlemen, let us act for our agriculture, our farmers and the future of our territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u42	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u43	Minister, I appreciate the difficulty of your position, as the Government is hypocrisy. You are agitating in the context of the undoubtedly very important work that has been undertaken, while on the other hand you sign the CETA – a comprehensive economic and trade agreement – and refuse to allow our Assembly to deliberate on this subject, while at the same time negotiating the agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR, which should result in massive imports of beef, and that in Brussels you have already stalled in the face of the reduction of the CAP budget. In truth, like France, which you represent, has abandoned in Brussels its power, its autonomy, its independence, you are condemned to agitate on the national scene, with a bill that constitutes nothing but a concealment. You place our farmers – you are not the first – in an absolutely infernal trap. On the one hand, you are holding a speech to the French population in which you manifest requirements corresponding to the demands of society, particularly environmental ones. On the other hand, you have permanent unfair competition, in particular health and social, to allow, as Mr Chassaigne said very well, the export of German financial services or automobiles. The reality is there. But it can be seen, because our farmers can no longer live from their work. Is there only one other profession in France where the selling price is lower than the cost of production? Is there only one other profession where suicide is recorded every two or three days, according to statistics that are often hidden? How can we accept this in this House? This bill is a bandage, but it won't hold. We are being rebuked by contracting to conceal the impossibility of abandoning guaranteed prices and quotas, which were the only way to preserve an agricultural that had proved its worth. I am not asking for the impossible: it is not a question of setting up an administered economy, but of applying the CAP as France intended – at the time, we had a Head of State who had dared to use the policy of the empty chair to obtain a protective system. But his successors have given up. You know very well that our agriculture will not be able to survive in this context of unfair competition. Our farms are closing. It is well known that we will be increasingly importing certain products. The question is simple: do we want this big move from the territory or not? Will it be necessary to survive farms of 1000 cows, whose health and environmental consequences are known? You know very well that the model you impose on our country is untenable. That is why I am asking for either a renegotiation of the CAP, which will be difficult without opening a deep crisis in Brussels, or the renationalisation of our agricultural policy, because contrary to what you say and what the agricultural unions say, we are spending EUR 9 billion net for an organisation that kills our agricultural and industrial jobs. Let us use this €9 billion to ensure that our farmers are compensated for world prices, as do other countries such as the United States or Canada. The current model that you defend – which you pretend to defend – is absolutely untenable. My second point concerns the reconciliation of producers and consumers. You have rejected all the amendments aimed at taking into account the suffering and welfare of animals. If we do not understand the change in society currently at work, it is the producers who will end up paying very dearly for the refusal of French consumers – positive – to eat anything, to participate in animal suffering and not to know what is on their plate. That is why I am defending the inclusion of the origin of the products on the labels. It is unacceptable for us in our country to consume unsweetened meat: as you know, today the slaughterhouses mix halal and non-halal meats. It is unacceptable to talk about animal welfare and not to negotiate with the religious authorities a true dissociation of the channels, based at least on information, then, in the long run, on a ban on the absence of dizziness. How can we talk about animal welfare if we don't solve this problem? Also, why don't you leave cameras in the slaughterhouses? Why not give in to legitimate consumer demands? If we do not give in to it, our farmers and producers, who love the land and respect the environment, will be the first victims. That is why it is very bad to give in to the agri-food industry, which is destroying our peasant model and making French consumers angry with their producers. As long as we do not resolve the issue in Brussels, our agriculture will die in an environmental disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u44	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u45	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, "Who has the power? Who rules? Nicolas Hulot asked on France Inter on August 28th. We are debating in this general discussion as if nothing had happened, as if we had left the day before, as if there had not been a judgment, obtained by gardener Dewayne Johnson in the United States, condemning Monsanto to $289 million in fine and recognizing the link between exposure to glyphosate and cancer, as if there had not been the departure of Nicolas Hulot, who is one of the delayed effects of the first reading of this bill in this House. Fifteen days after this departure, what remains of his call to electroshock? The French heard this call. They know the dramatic scale and unprecedented violence of the destruction of climate, biodiversity, living, soil and everything that makes the earth beautiful and habitable. From this rostrum, I greet those who demonstrated for the climate on Saturday. I welcome the poppie movement, which is only in its infancy and which expresses the massive demand of society for a healthy diet without pesticides, additives and endocrine disruptors. I salute the organic farmers who demonstrated yesterday in Limoges, because the aid for 2016 and 2017 has still not been paid...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u46	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u47	...which should be a national scandal. We would like to discourage the momentum of the agricultural world towards the great turning point of agroecology that we would not do otherwise! But here in the National Assembly, has the call for a burst been heard? Normally, the Government should have tabled a multitude of amendments to supplement Title II of this text, the progress of which is not commensurate with the ongoing destruction of life. Normally, there should be a change in the vision of the executive and the behaviour of all groups. I am thinking of this surreal scene, during the debates at first reading, during which a spectacular alliance was formed between the Republicans, MODEM, the UDI, Acte and Independent Group, Members of the LaREM Group, and even the Socialists and Communists, in order to oppose measures as basic as the protection of residents against pesticide application. True cleavage, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer in the differences between your groups; It now passes between the earthlings and the destroyers; There are those who want poppies and those who don't want them. This is the real cleavage in our Republic. We will see what happens in the vote on the ban on glyphosate. Recall that the latter is the only pesticide classified as probable carcinogen by the World Health Organization to be authorised in France. All other pesticides in this category are prohibited. You claim that we all agree on the goal of leaving glyphosate and that only the method would be debated. The one you defend is fake: it is based on successive "Ecophyto" plans and voluntary commitments, which are obvious failures. Who can believe that the contract of solutions that we are being offered is serious, when it is co-signed by representatives of the agrochemical firms? Who can accept that the public authorities are disposing of their responsibilities on the backs of farmers? Indeed, you place the burden of pesticides and glyphosate on the agricultural world, as if it were for the farmer working in his field to organise their exit, while the product is authorised or prohibited by the public authorities. The summum is the name that the Government gave its plan for the release of the glyphosate – "Task force", the same as that of the European glyphosate lobby. [[Applause on several benches in the GDR group. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] Colleagues, in 2015 and 2016, during the debate on the ban on neonicotinoids, we heard the same arguments; We were initially only a handful of Members defending the ban on neonicotinoids. On 1 September, all, even those who had not raised a finger for the law's ban on neonicotinoids, welcomed this measure in Twitter releases, and the Government said it was thanks to him that the ban had been adopted. Well, that's good! Then vote for the ban on glyphosate, and the day it comes into force, you will say, as you did for neonicotinoids: "It's thanks to us! "
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u48	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u49	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is at the end of a year of work and collective reflection, since the opening of the states-general for food on 20 July 2017, that we are approaching, together, this new reading of the bill by this House. The findings of the states general of food have largely inspired the writing of this bill, as we have already said, and have served as a roadmap for our legislative work. The actors in the agricultural world and our fellow citizens have expressed strong expectations, which we must respond to. I am speaking before you as draftsman of the first reading of Title II of the EGALIM bill on behalf of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. As you know, the work and discussions in the Committee on Sustainable Development have been particularly rich, long and fruitful. I would like to emphasize that we have involved all the parliamentary groups, whose expectations we have taken into account in this bill. Many of our proposals have been confirmed and adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs – I obviously welcome the work of the rapporteur, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, and the minister, constantly listening to our proposals – and then in the public sitting at the end of May, reflecting the strong political convictions that underlie them and the support that they have met. The flagship measure of Title II, which I wish to emphasize today and which is in clause 11 of the bill, concerns our model of public collective restoration. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, article 11 of the Act sets out a target of 50 per cent of products with signs of origin and quality or valuable indications, including 20 per cent of products from organic farming, served in collective restoration by 2022. This measure concerns school canteens in schools, colleges and high schools, hospitals, residential institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD –, university restaurants and prisons, and aims at four objectives to accompany the agricultural and food transition and ensure a greater distribution of value for our farmers. The first is an economic objective. The aim is to use collective restoration and public order as an essential lever to accompany the restructuring of certain local sectors, to strengthen the territorial anchoring of food by promoting short and proximity circuits, to promote short and proximity circuits, and to ensure new commercial opportunities for our farmers. Let us recall a few figures: collective catering accounts for almost two thirds of meals served out of home each year in France, i.e. more than 3 billion meals a year, and the amount of its annual food purchases is around 7 billion euros; collective restoration therefore represents a powerful economic lever, not to be overlooked in order to enable our French food production chains to capture significant market shares for the benefit of our farmers. This measure of Article 11 of Title II also pursues a public health objective: we wish to change the food practices of the French, by offering a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all in collective catering and, in particular, in school canteens. It is essential to adopt healthy and balanced eating habits from an early age, and to familiarize our children with taste and "good eating". A simple labelling, showing the origin and composition of the products in the canteens, was adopted in committee. The third objective of this measure is environmental: we must accompany the environmental transition from agriculture to more sustainable models, in particular by amplifying official approaches – organic farming and high environmental certification – and by favouring local supply, which reduces the carbon footprint, and responsible and fairer purchases. The impact of this measure on food waste should also be stressed. It should also be remembered, as shown by a study conducted by the Association des mayores de France and the presidents of intercommunality with the communes and the intercommunalities, that the initiatives taken in favour of quality food in the canteens allow a reduction of 80% of food waste, an integration of the market cuisine – raw, bulk, fresh and seasonal – and a better match between the volumes purchased and the needs. Above all, we pursue a goal of social justice: we want to make school restoration a school of food citizenship and "good eating" for all. By 2022, 50% of organic, local products, under signs of quality in collective catering, are healthier and sustainable meals for 7 million children every day in canteens. It is a fair and equitable measure, because it helps to combat food insecurity, which affects, as you know, a large number of families in France, for which food has become the variable for adjusting the household budget. With this measure, our children will eat better, which is a real progress. But, in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, the involvement of both professionals and consumers is essential. It is essential to educate and train public buyers, managers and chefs about the practices we promote. Many local initiatives, such as those initiated by local authorities, have shown us the way and encouraged us to maintain this ambitious objective in law. If these measures reflect the ambitions of our majority in order to allow our daily diet to grow in range, they must be part of a global reflection on our food model: the "good [or] better to eat" must be accessible to as many people as possible, regardless of resources and social origins. That is why Article 12 of this text deals with the fight against food insecurity and food aid, subjects to which our committee has paid particular attention. The accreditation of legal persons entitled to receive food donations is now subject to enhanced protection, and the quality requirement for donations made by distributors has been raised. Territorial food projects, like the National Nutrition Health Program, will incorporate a waste reduction goal. We also call on companies to be involved in this process: food donation and the fight against waste will now be an integral part of the criteria of corporate social responsibility. The bill also contains a number of provisions to ensure that animal welfare is respected at every stage of breeding and slaughter. In particular, it provides for the improvement of the procedure for launching alerts, the generalisation of animal welfare officials in slaughterhouses, the extension to declared associations of the right to register as a civil party and the raising of awareness of the issues of animal welfare in the context of agricultural education. These measures will make it possible to re-establish a link of trust between citizens and farmers through greater transparency and controls in the slaughter chain. Finally, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has strongly defended its objectives of preserving the environment and reducing the use of plant protection products in agriculture. In addition to separating sales and advisory activities, we have adopted several measures to facilitate and encourage the use of biocontrol products, encourage training in their use and encourage changes in practices. A mission to reduce the use of plant protection products was also assigned to the chambers of agriculture, and the definition of neonicotinoids was extended to include the above substances. Finally, we have adopted protective measures on the application of pesticides in the vicinity of residential areas, while sending a strong invitation to stakeholders to engage in dialogue and agree on commitments within the framework of good practices and good neighbourliness charters. These are the main subjects on which we have worked in our committee. The review of the draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs in July helped to reinforce these developments. Increased greening, more ambitious agri-environmental measures to respond to the Ecophyto II plan, an acceleration of the development of organic agriculture under the Ambition Bio 2022 plan: these are the strong and consistent directions that we have set out in the bill. The work of our assembly has also made it possible to clarify and confirm the executive's commitment to accompany a plan for the gradual release of glyphosate in three years, by empowering the sectors and professionals concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Some topics will be discussed again in public session in order to enrich the bill, including the indications and indicators of the quality of food products and the remuneration of environmental services rendered by agriculture, which is a campaign commitment of the President of the Republic. Several amendments to this effect have been tabled. These are, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main subjects which we will once again have the opportunity to debate in this House, as part of our consideration of a bill that we are proud and convinced of!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u50	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u51	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary re-entry, I see that bad habits are hard. Once again, a text of great importance to our farmers is the subject of this unfortunate procedure known as the "programmed legislative time", the first consequence of which is the virtual impossibility for non-attached Members to defend their amendments. Funny conception of democracy and the rights of parliamentarians! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I will not have time to talk to you about price indicators, organic farming, animal welfare and the abomination of ritual slaughter. I will not talk to you about the ban on plastic straws in France either, although I am pleased – by the way – to note that the bill that I introduced on this subject has finally caught your attention in the context of this bill. This morning, I'll talk to you about viticulture. I've been visiting the cellars in my constituency for a couple of weeks. In Sérignan last week, in Hérépian this Saturday, in Cers, Portiragnes and Corneilhan Tuesday, I went to meet these winemakers proud of their work, who wear the colors of our territory in these cooperative cellars, true cathedrals of our great Biterrois, which shape our landscapes in their own way and remind us of our history. For several years, our wine growers have been subjected to severe climatic hazards: drought, frost, hail, unexpected snowy episodes, and this year unusual rainfall in May and June, which have resulted in the resurgence of mildew. What are the concerns of our wine growers? They come back to us year after year, proof – if necessary – of our inability to find solutions and take these subjects with arms-to-body. Does the law answer that? Unfortunately very partially. One example: even as you wonder every day, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that Europe is the subject of so much misunderstanding – if not more – how can we explain the differences in regulations between Member States? Let's talk concretely: some countries have negotiated derogations in order to be able to use plant protection products that are banned elsewhere. Spain, in order not to name it, authorises the processing of its vines by products banned in France, which moreover cost much less than those used by our wine growers. Nothing is done to prevent these Spanish wines from entering France. We do not even require that their label clearly mention the products with which they were treated! This is a double betrayal, towards our French wine growers – who are subjected to this unfair competition – and towards French consumers who, for the most part, do not know that they buy Spanish wine or that it is produced with treatments banned in France! With regard to wine-growing, you would like to delete Article 11h F of the text, introduced by the Senate at first reading, re-establishing the declaration of harvest for wine-growers. However, it is an indispensable tool for the traceability of PDO wines – protected designation of origin. It is the basis for cross-checking information from harvesters and non-harvesting wine producers. Its removal would lead to a more complex and less effective traceability control, a more complex implementation of climate insurance, the questioning of certain supply regulation measures – and I am moving on. You say you want to simplify the lives of wine growers, Minister: delete the annual inventory declaration, which doubles with the annual inventory declaration! This request has been made for 15 years. The declaration of harvest was created after the vineyard revolts of 1907, in order to strengthen the traceability of the wines. As you know, in Béziers, this is an episode of our history that we love and defend! Last, last, and not least, concern: the planned end of the exemption from social contributions for farmers employing seasonal workers, provided for in the forthcoming finance bill. This announced measure is likely to seriously affect the competitiveness of our agriculture, particularly that of the fruit and vegetable and vine sectors. In the Corneilhan cooperative cellar, for example, between thirty and forty seasonal jobs will be affected by this measure. In the Hérault department, 72% of farm employers employ seasonal workers. Our farmers and wine growers deserve better. With an average salary of 350 euros per month for one in three farmers and one suicide every two days, it is no longer a question of making a stick effect. Giving on one side to take on the other is the real limit of your policy of "at the same time". French farmers and wine growers suffer the consequences. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u52	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u53	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met today in the extraordinary session to discuss a text expected by the agricultural world. It is precisely because it is expected that we have the urgent task of meeting the challenge of reforming the agricultural sector, including its protection. It must be noted that the first reading review of the bill was a failure. The Government's twofold goal – to achieve a balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet – has not been achieved. The text now before us in our re-reading is also not up to the challenges that the agricultural world, which we so much love, is facing. Even though it contains a few provisions that go in the right direction, the philosophy behind it prevents any improvement in the – dramatic – living conditions of our farmers. The current balance of power, which is totally unbalanced, needs to be reversed. The unfair competition imposed by large-scale distribution on our farmers is no longer sustainable. The application – which you call for, ladies and gentlemen of the majority – of the disastrous free trade treaties – TAFTA or Transatlantic Partnership on Trade and Investment, CETA, EU-MERCOSUR and JEFTA, or free trade agreement between Japan and the European Union – will only accentuate this phenomenon, due to the importation of products that do not comply with our health, social and environmental standards. We warned you, during the examination of the text at first reading, about the need to fix a purchase price floor for agricultural products, in order to finally allow our farmers to live decently of their profession. Elected from an agricultural region, the Hauts-de-Frances, I am daily confronted with the distress of these men and women who have chosen to exercise one of the most beautiful trades that is to feed others. The unacceptable behaviour of certain industrialists, who claim to defend farmers while defending only their situation, often has dramatic consequences, sometimes causing – too often – some farmers, alas, to commit the irreparable. The suicide rate among our farmers is particularly eloquent: it is 20% to 30% higher than that of the rest of the population. It is high time to react and tackle the causes of the problems, rather than just deal with their consequences after the fact. We will never resolve to remain mere spectators of this distress. Our country has tremendous agricultural resources, as well as women and men who love their jobs. French know-how is recognized worldwide. The quality of our productions, the first link in the agri-food chain, is decisive to ensure that our compatriots have a healthy and balanced diet, thereby contributing to the international influence of our country. Short circuits, whose merits we constantly boast, must become the rule, in order to put an end to this crazy system of producing at the other end of the world and then reimporting products to our territory, pollution as a bonus. The opacity characterising the production and consumption of food products is no longer acceptable. Our compatriots have the right to know what is on their plates, which requires, in particular, the labelling of livestock products indicating their way of production and – even if you don't like it – a clarification of the rules on slaughter, in particular the stricter supervision of ritual slaughter with a view to making it obligatory for prior dizziness. Does it seem acceptable to you, ladies and gentlemen, that French consumers do not know the origin or even the method of slaughtering animals most often? The agricultural world is living in deep disarray and is going through a major crisis, which is likely to be fatal. Various texts and regulations follow each other, and the crisis is increasing. Successive governments try to apply palliation, with beautiful grandiose discourses, but our farmers and herders are waiting for concrete solutions, which involve the overhaul of the system in force, which promotes unfair competition and gradually asphyxiates them. To do this, we must challenge the European model that you insist on supporting at all costs. Between the demands of Brussels and the lives of our farmers, for us, the choice is simple: our farmers first and foremost!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u54	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u55	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in my turn, I am intervening – very modestly – in the consideration of this bill, which is crucial for public health, the viability of agriculture, and the commercial relations between the primary and agri-food sectors on the one hand, and large-scale distribution on the other. Two words about the method. As at first reading, because of the use of the scheduled legislative time procedure, Members who are not registered are deprived of sufficient time to address these important issues seriously, which we do not think is very fair and very regrettable. I also regret the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. We hope, for our part, that the development of agriculture and the improvement of the living conditions of farmers do not depend on block-to-block political competitions, let alone on the pressure of particular interests, even if we do not ignore the importance of the sums involved, in various ways, because of the evolution of the bill. Above all, I would like to highlight the difficulties that so many farmers face on a daily basis. The primary sector now comprises 885,000 farmers, a number unfortunately in continuous decline. In 2016, the average gross income of a farmer was 18300 euros, which is a good indication of the precariousness experienced by many of them. And, based on the figures of the Ministry of Agriculture, this amount had fallen by 19 per cent compared to the previous year, while at the same time prices of agricultural products had risen by 4.8 per cent: overall, the correlation between food prices and the wages of those who produce them is low or even non-existent. As a result, an increasing proportion of farmers can no longer live in dignity. All of this – the least we can say – is abnormal. I had the opportunity to say this at first reading: in a globalized and capitalistic world, the law must aim to protect the most fragile and correct the economic and legal distortion existing in a commercial relationship. As is well known, distribution centres and large and medium-sized areas are mastodones that crush everything on their way: producers, artisans, traders, and, ultimately, the quality of life. It is a matter for us to restore social justice in the commercial relationship. The introduction of sanctions relating to breach of contractual obligations, the raising of the threshold for resale at a loss and the framing of promotions seem to us to be a good policy; These measures send a strong message: distribution cannot take precedence over production. The hopes born of the general states of food must not turn into disillusionments. I would also like to express here the concern of Corsican farmers – many of whom are in a precarious situation, not to say survival – about the renegotiation of the common agricultural policy. Our island, in which the agricultural sector plays an increasing role in the production of goods as well as in the planning and valorisation of the territory, can be severely affected by the prospects, as they come to us, of the new CAP. In direct relation to the subject of the day, I stress that our island plays the map of quality. I would also like to refer to the animal condition. The conditions of rearing and slaughter are too often different from the minimum respect due to animals; Some of the images presented to us bear witness to an inhumanity that revulses us. It is our duty to intervene and legislate in this matter. The progress of the law on ill-treatment, though modest, remains a step forward. Yet we must be able to testify to ill-treatment: we hope that the experiment of video surveillance in slaughterhouses will be something other than a false leak and will open up new perspectives. I will not mention animal living conditions in certain suicidal or poultry farms, which call for reform. The Act must also provide an opportunity to define clear nutritional quality objectives. Act on sugar, salt, fat levels, raise awareness, provide for more explicit labelling, promote bio, reduce the processing volume of plant protection products, prohibit glyphosate, ensure the added value of AOC labels – controlled label of origin –, IGP – protected geographical indication – and AOP – protected label of origin – in the face of distributor brands: all these objectives remain valid. We take note of the progress proposed in these various areas that I have just mentioned and in others, and we wish to see in this law a first step, a step that will call for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u56	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u57	I will be brief: the discussion of the amendments that you have kindly tabled will allow us to go back to all the points that have been raised. I have heard many ambitions and suggestions, which I can share, on all of your benches. But I have also heard, once again, misconceptions about the Government's commitments to a more efficient agriculture, but also about the establishment of tools that allow farmers to live in dignity from their work, or about the environment – an area where our road map must be implemented very quickly thanks to this law. As for the CAP, I heard that France would not have a roadmap! Let me tell you that, on the contrary, France has taken the lead in the negotiations: as early as 2 May, we declared that the budget proposed to us was absolutely unacceptable; Six countries were initially signatories to the memorandum that we defended in Madrid, and they are now twenty-two. We are proposing an ambitious CAP that protects the interests of our farmers. We will also come back to the second project, which concerns our environmental practices. Our agriculture is in transition; We must accompany this transition, not put farmers at the foot of the wall. We have already discussed the issue of glyphosate, and Matthieu Orphelin recalled the method we have adopted: trusting the entire industry...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u59	... while maintaining the objective set by the President of the Republic to get out of glyphosate in three years. This commitment will of course be fulfilled. As far as animal welfare is concerned, we have made good progress; on the issue of ritual slaughter, we are working with cults to find ways of progress, with lasting and acceptable compromises. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Twelve ministries are engaged in the general statements of food. So it's something transversal. In particular, we are working with Jean-Michel Blanquer on nutrition education, so that children in schools are trained in good food practices. We are also working with industrialists to ensure that tomorrow our food products are less fat, less salty, less sweet. Our diet must be safe, healthy and sustainable; We must also ensure income for our farmers, so that they have sufficient business opportunities. Our agriculture must achieve a quadruple performance: health, economic, social and environmental. That is what we call our vows. I will come back later – I do not want to do so now – on the issue of price indicators, which we are going to discuss in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u60	On income, we didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u61	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u62	Mr Fabrice Brun, the first speaker on the item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u63	Consideration of article 1 will be decisive. If we fail to reach a compromise on the central issue of price indicators, there will be no fair balance between producers and purchasing stations, and farmers will only retain the additional constraints and burdens from this text. It is no longer the approval, the large distribution, that must impose its tariffs: on the contrary, the producer must cover his production costs and generate a decent income. Many of us are returning to the burden on this issue, to defend the producers, the weakest part of the contract, in such an unbalanced balance of power: it is the pot of land against the iron pot, and we must tackle the cartelization of purchasing plants. But this problem is not the only one we need to address: we cannot disconnect the review of this bill from the news that brings its lot of bad news every week. The Government thus wants to abolish the system of exemption from charges for the employment of certain casual workers, the famous TODE, "temporary workers-job seekers". In Ardèche, this represents 15,000 contracts, and 30,000 in Drôme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u64	It's terrible, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u65	Your answer to my colleague Bernard Reynès yesterday, during the question-and-answer session in the Government, cannot satisfy the profession, and you know that, Minister. In addition, for the past few months, hooded thugs claiming to be from the vegan movement vandalize the windows of our butcheries, fish shops and cheese shops.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u66	Unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u67	These abuses must stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u68	We would like to hear more about this crucial subject! [[Rires and approvals on the benches of the LR group]] The review of this bill provides us with a forum that we could use to denounce the attacks of the hygienist and prohibitionist lobbies on wine. Together, Minister, let's defend wine against peas! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] By reaffirming our commitment to the principle of moderation, by clearly refusing prohibition, I mean that wine is jobs; that wine is an art of living in French that the whole world envys us; that wine is exports that only the aeronautics sector is ahead of. Wine is France, and France is us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u69	Excellent plea! It starts on the wheel hats!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u70	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u71	Here's an important text back in our Chamber: it talks about what makes France's soul, agriculture – a quality agriculture, unique in the world, which has long allowed us to balance our trade balance and keeps it alive today. It is a strength, and even more so, a wealth. But it has been two decades since those who make her live were able to earn decent income. The agricultural population continues to fall, and the crisis is deep. The precariousness of farmers is known to all: while their activity is particularly difficult, and requires a daily investment from the early hours of the day, the social mutual farm, the MSA, reminds us that in 2016, 20% of farmers could not pay their wages, and 30% received less than 350 euros per month. Insolvencies, suicides are increasing, and difficulties continue to build up, with Europe's hard blow to the underprivileged areas. We have so much more to do on this, Minister. I should like to add that the wolf, which the Government wishes to encourage, threatens open-air farming, and that the scheme for the employment of seasonal workers has just been abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u72	It's not deleted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u73	How, under these conditions, can we ensure a future for the agricultural sector? How can vocations be born? We must send a strong message of benevolence to the profession, and in particular to the young farmers who are launching. They must be encouraged, and to that end go further and ensure, through this bill, decent incomes. I have tabled several amendments on this fundamental issue. The other part of this text is just as important: the farmer's profile has changed; sustainable development is a requirement that we must all bear in mind. The issue of organic farming is of paramount importance, and here I would like to pay tribute to my department, Drôme, the first organic department in France. The sector must evolve, but at its own pace, towards a model of agriculture compatible with the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u74	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u75	Uncertainties and expectations have never been so important in the agricultural world. Farmers do not ask for alms; They just want to live on the fruits of their work. How can we ensure a decent income for them? This is the only question that we should ask ourselves in our consideration of Article 1. Agriculture is the life of our territories, and it is the pride of France. That is the international image we send back. At a time when our farmers are experiencing unfair competition – due to the social and environmental dumping of foreign countries – but also unprecedented administrative pressure, it is time to revalue their work. However, the hyperconcentration of distribution creates a balance of power unfavourable to farmers; It's David against Goliath. Our amendments seek to reverse this balance of power, in order to establish a fair price for producers. And how can we dare to remove the exemptions for seasonal workers, which are so important in most of our sectors? Ladies and gentlemen, farmers have been waiting too long for their situation to improve. The general states of food have raised real hopes. The words of the President of the Republic in Rungis put balm in their hearts. Today, the ball is on your side. Let's not miss out on the most important thing, the improvement of farmers' incomes. In order to achieve this objective, contracting measures must go further, in order to ensure a fair balance between suppliers and large-scale distribution. On the other hand, we cannot exempt ourselves from paying the right price and from a sharp reduction in the burden on our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let's be brave, let's be fair! It is time to act for the agriculture of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u76	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u77	So we're back together to re-read the bill to balance trade relations in the agriculture and food sector and healthy and sustainable food. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, if I believe in your sincerity when you say that we share your will to allow farmers in our country to live out their production and their work, I think you are bound by a series of decisions that do not depend on you. Before we deal with Article 1, which deals with the regulation of sales contracts and framework agreements in order to reverse the process of building the price paid to farmers on the basis of production costs, I would like to go back to the title of the bill, which carries good promises. After the general states of food, farmers wanted to believe in these promises, in good faith, with great sincerity. At the agricultural gatherings I visited in August and with you, Minister, last Sunday, in Ille-et-Vilaine, I feel a great deal of doubt and a great deal of concern about the results of these eight months of work. I am convinced that everyone here has the same concerns. I will not dwell on the lack of protection for farmers in the allocation of selling prices for their products, which we will discuss in Article 1. Your proposal to create indicators, made freely available to the parties, will in no way alter the situation as we know it. Although the objectives behind this bill may be honourable, the solutions found, at best ineffective and inadequate, could, at worst, be dangerous to our agriculture. As many of us have said, minister, your project may become a missed opportunity. If the goals that drive it are honourable, the solutions you have found are not up to your ambitions. Yes, farmers' expectations are high. They hoped because you gave them the hope that your government would change things by finally allowing them to live from their work, making decisions as we will in the coming hours. I ask everyone to bear in mind that the future of our agriculture will depend on their votes. The consumer is asking for a new agricultural model. We all want to see our agriculture evolve towards higher quality, greater security. But let us not be mistaken, we will only be able to build this model with farmers, if they still exist tomorrow. But every farmer who has been deceived by the general states will no longer produce for the French consumer tomorrow, because it will no longer produce at all. That's not what we want. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There's still time to change that. Let us mobilize ourselves to ensure that this law is not a missed opportunity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u78	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u79	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, if we appreciate you, if we all recognize your commitment, your work, your good faith, it does, however, mean that in politics, we judge the results. But we do not see any results, which reminds me of the novel by Honoré de Balzac, Lost Illusions. Illusions, there were, a few months ago. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the President in Rungis or the general states. Just like the Grenelle, everything started in enthusiasm. Where are we? For sixteen months, nothing has moved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u80	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u81	No tools are in place to defend the incomes of our farmers. Although negotiations begin in a few weeks, nothing is ready. If only in terms of calendar, you're not on the date! In substance, minister, your law, which was originally intended to deal primarily with farm income, was devoured by societal subjects. Of course, I admit it and credit it to you, you defended us in the duel with your former colleague Nicolas Hulot. Finally, faced with its flamboyant character, your work and determination paid off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u82	And you're still here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u83	Nevertheless, the illusions are there, especially the initial one, to suggest that income would be fixed on the basis of the cost price. Exactly as when in 2015, your predecessor, Mr.Le Foll, suggested that farm incomes, especially pig prices, would be set in the office of the Minister of Agriculture. The illusion lasted five weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u84	He never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u85	Forgive me, Mr. Potier, but he said so. And today you are very alone to defend him, dear colleague and friend, on the benches of a party once very majority. What is this cost price? Should it be calculated by operation? By region? At the national level? European? Does it include the operator's margin? All these questions remain unanswered. Minister, last Tuesday, at the International Animal Production Fair – SPACE – Marcel Denieul, one of the wise men of Breton agriculture, told you that illusions had fallen. Listening to your speech today with the utmost attention, I noticed that you did not take up the theme of the price fixed according to the cost price, because you do not believe it yourself – or not. Another challenge awaits us, that of the famous increase in the threshold of resale at a loss. A priori, this is a good idea. Today, a merchant can buy and sell at the same price. Tomorrow, he will be able to buy a commodity and sell it 10 euros more expensive. It seems to be going in the right direction. However, it could also maintain the selling price of its goods and require its supplier to sell 10 euros cheaper. Thus, the increase in this loss resale threshold could result in increased pressure on suppliers. This pressure is likely to be all the more strong as, as everyone admits, we are entering a delicate period for the purchasing power not only of pensioners, but of all our compatriots. I urge all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on this issue. It is therefore to be feared that the price war in large-scale distribution will exacerbate and that, in reality, it will lead to a greater pressure on the prices offered to suppliers. Let us be very vigilant and attentive on this point. Without denying good ideas or good will, I believe that the appointment may be missed. Illusions, too, on another subject, of which we speak little, or more. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the candidate for the presidency of the Republic promised us not only general states, but also EUR 5 billion in investments for agriculture. All the farmers heard it. A few points have come to our attention on this subject. First, these 5 billion will go back not only to agriculture, but also to fisheries or aquaculture. Why not? Secondly, we realize that this will not be fresh money, but often a simple guarantee from the Public Investment Bank – BPI – which is considered a grant. Finally, we will see that it will often be a matter of recycling money from the European Union, in particular agri-environmental and climate measures – MACE. Illusions, once again: the €5 billion will not be there. We will see that in a few days, in a few hours, Minister, when you present the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture. We will see if, in any way, a few crumbs will come to abound these 5 billion. I'm afraid that's not the case, but I hope you'll deny that fear. Illusions, too, because as we debate this text, Europe is continuing its trade negotiations. These are already very committed, not only to Canada, where the measures are partially implemented, but also to MERCOSUR – an agreement would be the most dramatic element in recent years for our agriculture – or Mexico, as many countries that can become our competitors. Mr Minister, how can you say that you will regulate French agriculture in a much more demanding way, while allowing external products to enter so massively through such agreements? That sounds terrible to me. Illusions, again, because at a time when we are debating this text, as if to hide things, we are seeing a very worrying development in the CAP. I was in Brussels a few days ago. My interlocutors have made it clear to me that the CAP budget would fall by 5% to 15%, an even greater reduction in the premiums allocated to our farmers, and that France was not being heard on this subject – a painful statement for all of us. The CAP is only the result of France's will. Without it, nothing will happen and our interests will not be defended. I would like to point out that the President of the Republic did not mention the common agricultural policy in any of his four founding speeches on Europe, delivered in symbolic places – in Strasbourg, in Aachen, in the Sorbonne, in Athens – beautiful speeches that addressed major subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u87	He mentioned it in his Sorbonne speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u88	That is to say, if we do not put these matters forward ourselves, if we do not talk to our interlocutors about these issues, nothing will happen. I am waiting for us to defend the common agricultural policy and to stop attacking those in Europe who can be our allies – in particular the countries of Eastern Europe, which are concerned with the same issues as us. How do you want to hit Hungary and Poland at the same time and become their ally in the debate on the common agricultural policy? Illusions, therefore, which are very widely maintained by you and your government. Illusions, because as we debate this text, extremely unfavourable measures for our agriculture are being taken. For example, others said before me, the abolition of the exemption scheme for the employment of casual workers and agricultural job seekers – TODE – who are concerned about fruit and vegetable producers. I would like to make myself the spokesman of the Breton Serrists, who spoke with you on Tuesday last. Like all fruit and vegetable producers, they employ a large seasonal workforce. I hope, Minister, that we will receive a much better answer than you did yesterday. I would admit that the questions to the Government are not the ideal time to provide answers, but there is now a fear that several hundred million euros will be taken from this agricultural sector, even though these farms are in competition with those of neighbouring European countries. Minister, let's stop with illusions! Let's tell our farmers the truth. Let us tell them that Europe must defend itself, that European preference must become more topical, that we will commit ourselves tomorrow to a real reduction in the burdens – regulatory, fiscal, social – that will enable them to become more operational. That is what we want, and that is the only solution. Moreover, these three declines depend only on us. It is not Europe, but France that can reduce the regulatory, fiscal or social burden. We will then have the means to put an end to illusions, to return to reality, to tell our farmers that the world is certainly hard, but they have the public authorities at their side, as has been the case for many years. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, it is to be feared that farmers will say the opposite: only in the name of societal principles, we abandon an entire part not only of our economy, but also of our historical and social reality, especially in Brittany, namely the French peasantry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u89	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u90	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u91	The fate of the proposals on price indicators – both for us and for our colleagues, and not just for the opposition – will depend on the usefulness of your text and the effectiveness of what you propose to us. The reversal of price construction, promised by the President of the Republic, and the indispensable rebalancing of the balance of power between producers and farmers demand that you agree to rewrite this article, in particular its paragraph 15, whose current wording, which remains ambiguous, poses the risk that the most powerful actors in a sector will continue to impose their law. As I said yesterday, we must go back to the wording on which a consensus had been reached at first reading in order to hope to achieve the objective pursued by this text, which we all share and which is the only one that I believe is worth the improvement of the income of our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If we fail to do so, farmers will remain the adjustment variable of trade negotiations and the purchasing centres, which have chosen concentration to ensure their supremacy, will continue to make the law in disregard of ours, which, you will agree, is no longer acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u92	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u93	As we debate this bill for the second time, we need to ask ourselves a few key questions: what would our country be without agriculture? What would become of our communes and rural territories? What would our landscapes look like? What about biodiversity? What would we have on our plates? The answers to these essential questions, Minister, should have been used as a guide in the development of your text. Unfortunately, even if we agree, we consider that the text is far from what we could have hoped for: nothing about lowering the burden; nothing on the relaxation of standards; nothing about the protection of French agriculture, but, on the contrary, an opening of markets with CETA and MERCOSUR which will penalise and endanger our agricultural economy and our food security. The only glimmer of hope that the first reading had given rise to, you extinguished it in the Joint Joint Committee. You went back to the amendment voted on at first reading on price fixing, which is the basis of this law. We all want farmers to live in dignity. They should no longer be used as an adjustment variable. They must no longer be under the yoke of purchasing plants. Prices must be set by the Food Price Formation and Margin Observatory in order to ensure that they are objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u94	And indisputable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u95	I therefore call on you, Mr Minister and the rapporteur, to pay kind attention to our amendments. Otherwise, your law will remain an empty shell and farmers' income will continue to fall. I fear that the disaster scenario, described yesterday by Mr Mélenchon, will come true, because thousands of farms close year after year. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, you have two days left to give hope to our farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u96	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u97	The parliamentary debate that begins is very much awaited by the entire agricultural profession. The representatives of the agricultural world participated with hope in the general states last autumn. Many do not understand why the parliamentary process takes so long to translate the commitments made at the close of these general statements. It is up to you, Minister, to us, ladies and gentlemen, not to disappoint them. The main aspiration of a French farmer is to live with dignity by selling his production. This is not the case today: the incomes of a significant proportion of farmers are below the poverty line. In addition, the majority of this income comes from aid under the CAP, as the selling prices of the products are too rarely sufficient to generate income. The issue of prices is therefore at the heart of the problem. The bill proposes to introduce the obligation of a written contract between the seller and the buyer. Our discussions will focus on the indicators to be taken into account in developing this prize. Our group presents proposals to make these indicators solid and indisputable, free from the manipulations of a few cunning buyers. Once these indicators are in place, the State will have to enforce the law and verify its proper implementation. The parliamentary shuttle has led to the introduction of several provisions which could be problematic for certain sectors if adopted as such. I take the example of the flax industry. The price paid to the farmer is determined at the end of the processing phase, the so-called seeding phase. The price takes into account the quality of the fibres in terms of length, colour, strength, finesse, cleanliness and homogeneity. However, it is not possible to objectively assess all these qualitative criteria when the farmer unloads his flax balls in the yard of the tillage plant. However, the current draft law requires that the price be fixed on the day agricultural production is delivered. In the flax industry, this constraint will have the effect of pulling prices down, because it is not possible to assess the quality of the goods. I met the actors in the industry last week. The price of flax is very remunerative, much more than wheat, and very stable. It is a breath of air for its producers. This is one of the pitfalls of the text. I will therefore propose an amendment to take account of the particularities of certain sectors such as flax. As you know, minister, since you came there last year, I am the one elected from a very rural constituency. I met a farmer who was the victim of the 2009 milk crisis: after having undergone a balance sheet deposit, a judicial liquidation, a divorce – he worked with his wife – he must now assume the burden of work alone. It is worn out physically and morally. When I received him at length, I heard a very poignant speech and measured all my impotence in helping him. It is for these farmers that we are here today and our group will defend amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As far as glyphosate is concerned, your majority has tabled a clever amendment that has shattered the trans-party consensus on the subject. I am a Norman MP and, as you know, in Normandy, we are violently moderate. You will now have to make every effort to get out of this business from the top, to get the farmers out of the glyphosate – they want it. On this subject, too, they are waiting for the Government to find a solution, within three years, as your President has committed himself to doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u98	Your president, who is ours too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u99	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u100	This article raises the central problem of the construction of market prices between producers and purchasing groups. In the conception of the liberal economy, the functioning of a market depends in particular on the balance of forces between supply and demand. This is far from the case for agricultural production whose market is cartelised and asymmetrical. We see the catastrophic consequences for the standard of living of farmers – they can no longer live with dignity from the fruit of their work, this has been widely repeated in this House. This bill must be an opportunity to rebalance this dissymmetric market as much as possible by promoting framework agreements signed by producer organisations. It is a matter of protecting producers by placing them in a framework that allows them otherwise to value their production, at least not to brace it any more. We will support the provisions that will contribute to the evolution of the law in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u101	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u102	We are addressing the provisions for improving the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector. The general states of food have raised strong hopes for the reversal of responsibility for the contractual proposal. In committee, the majority wanted to review the text adopted by the Senate in order to restore almost all of the text adopted by the Assembly at first reading. The majority thus returned to the price indicators. Interprofessions, or failing that, the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Marginals – the OFPM – can always establish or disseminate indicators, but this option is also available to third parties. While the title first was completed and improved at first reading, today the 350,000 farmers in France remain hungry, let us acknowledge. Contractualization measures do not go far enough to ensure a fair balance between suppliers and large-scale distribution. The food sovereignty of our country necessarily requires the preservation of agricultural production capacities and the fair remuneration of farmers. In this bill, the mountain may give birth to a mouse. In view of the decline in CAP aid, the pressure on charges, unfair foreign competition and the intransigence of certain inappropriate standards, the agricultural world still has great concerns. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is up to us to improve this text to ensure that all our farmers have a decent income.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u103	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u104	We are talking a lot about remunerative prices – and this is an absolute necessity – based on the production costs based on indicators themselves. But what margin rate for what income? If prices are aligned with production costs and these do not take into account labour remuneration, income is zero. There's no agriculture, there's agriculture. What is common between a 120-hectare breastfeeding operation in my department of Allier and a 1000-hectare operation in the Beauce? To compensate for the decline in margins over the last few decades, farms have been expanded, favouring the disappearance of the small farms we all regret. If production costs are analysed in the same way for 120 hectares and 1000 hectares, the resulting income will be completely different. The common agricultural policy must correct the disparities between production patterns. In order to reconcile the economy, the environment and society, it is important to define production costs and remunerative prices according to the modes of production. There is a need to obtain assurances on the future of the CAP, particularly in relation to less-favoured areas which are subject to additional constraints to produce. If we do not put these questions at the heart of our thinking, we will perpetuate the model based on growing farms to the detriment of small structures. We need to think about our agricultural model. The European Union had taken an interest in this issue by seeking to redefine the concept of family exploitation. This subject is fundamental in a country like ours, in which the diversity of agriculture requires differentiated responses. I hope that the common agricultural policy will deal with these issues: for example, the most exposed farmers will also be able to have prospects, the profession will be renewed and the installation will be favoured by a much clearer road map than it is today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u105	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u106	Originally, the rationale behind this law, which emerged from the general states of food, was the establishment of a just income for farmers – who have been suffering so much for so many years – to restore a minimum of equity in a global competition that is often far from being based on criteria common to all and turned largely against them, and, finally, to promote a model of exploitation of a human size, as we know it in France, with qualitative production. In view of the development of this text, we are now very far from it – I had opposed it at first reading, with Title II adding additional constraints for our farmers, who are already very penalized. I want to go back to a recent episode whose consequences are very serious. This summer, our country was hit by a drought that was sometimes unprecedented. In my home, for example, in southern Mosellan, we have sometimes recorded less than 40 millimetres of precipitation, which is unique in the annals. This raises enormous difficulties, and for crops, and for livestock. In the latter area, problems of feeding arise which lead to additional mechanical, purchasing or transport costs, all of which are unbearable additional burdens for our farmers, given the price of fodder, which is necessarily rising sharply. Our agricultural structures are therefore extremely fragile, even though they were already poorly developed due to the low remuneration of the products. I have written to you, Minister, asking for urgent recognition of the state of agricultural calamity: this is the least that can be done in the immediate future to save the farms, by insisting that you perhaps give an attentive ear to all the proposals that the opposition will again formulate in the course of the discussion to promote better protection of farmers against recurrent climatic hazards that can only worsen with global warming.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u107	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u108	Our discussion is fully in keeping with the current situation, as the Government's "poverty plan" is being presented today. Now, from the general states of food, all of us, regardless of the benches on which we sit, are busy drafting a plan to combat agricultural poverty. It is in this news that we must place ourselves! One in two farmers earn less than 350 euros a month, and every three days a farmer commits suicide. I always enjoy listening to Mr. Descoeur and Mr. Bony...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u109	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u110	... and other Members, for on every bench we must co-build dignity for farmers and women farmers that we must get out of poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u111	All right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LR groups, and on several benches of the LaREM groups]] I hope that, when we look at Article 1, we will keep in mind the months of work that you have done, Mr Minister, so that together, amendment by amendment, whatever our benches, we can get our farmers out of poverty through the value of the work, the land, the productions that have been done. Let us have this in mind by discussing this article and fight the big distribution that wants to weaken farmers, which pulls prices down! Together, let us build this agricultural value!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u113	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u114	I want to believe Mr Ramos, but by comparing the proposals that are made to us and the speeches that are made, I am calmer than he is and, sometimes, I am even shot down. This text, this article, Mr.Minister, is part of the post-presidential and post-general state of food, where, with a newly acquired legitimacy before the voters, you announced the great evening for the agricultural world. What about today? Who can believe for a moment that the prices of agricultural products and the incomes of farmers will be consolidated after the examination and adoption of this text? This is a missed opportunity, not by the minister who, I know, is convinced of the need to work on this issue, but by a majority who chose to abandon agriculture and to favour other sectors, other economic modalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u115	Anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u116	Mr rapporteur, it is not because we do not think like you that this is nonsense! Secondly, the elected one that I am, who will not vote for this law, has seen how this majority works: in agricultural matters, the commitments made are rarely fulfilled. This majority is very strong, with a rapporteur who says anything, knows everything and wants to give us lessons morning, noon and evening! I will not discuss the question of disadvantaged areas here, but I note that the latter supports a majority who have classified the beaches of Biarritz as a disadvantaged area while refusing to classify the hillsides of the Pyrenees. It represents a majority which, with this text, will call into question a cooperative system which, however, has proved its worth over time and is now a pillar of our agriculture. It represents a majority powerless to carry a singular voice, that of France, in comparison to other economies when it is necessary to renegotiate the CAP! I take this opportunity to say that we have the opportunity to censor the Government's agricultural policy because in one year you have almost missed every opportunity! I conclude, Mr Minister, on your unsatisfactory answer to the question raised yesterday by a colleague on the allowance scheme for part-time employees. In the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, this amounts to 900000 euros. When we add the less-favoured areas, the drought, a number of sectoral crises – but there you have nothing to do with it – there is something to be depressed and anxious about. Here, Mr rapporteur, I may say anything, but I represent above all those who are anxious about the policy that you are leading and who take advantage of this opportunity to repeat it by calling you, to use Mr Collomb's formula, unless arrogance, to more humility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u117	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u118	Farmers expected much from the general states of food. This Article 1 raises the question of price which, beyond its technical aspects, is fundamental. It is indeed the selling price that depends directly on the standard of living of our farmers and herders, and this price corresponds or, rather, should correspond to the hardness of their activity. However, the ridiculously low selling price of production places many professionals in a more than dramatic situation, which sometimes results in suicides, especially among small farmers. Are we going, are you going to tolerate this for a long time? Our role as legislator is to lay down rules, particularly with regard to large-scale distribution, which in many cases stifles our farmers for mere profit. While the role of the public authorities is not to interfere in the operation of private companies, they cannot remain mere spectators of the distress of agricultural professionals. It is therefore imperative to finally guarantee a floor price for our farmers so that they can receive a decent minimum income and finally put an end to the scandalous and unfair situation that affects them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u119	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u120	Article 1 is fundamental, and ultimately it is around it that perhaps the credibility of this law is involved. First of all, I want to restore the truth after the words of Marc Le Fur who, earlier, sent a small bomb, a bomb, against Stéphane Le Foll, who allegedly claimed to reform the law of modernization of the economy, the LME, without doing so. Dear Marc, the group you belong to sometimes looks like a two-headed hydra: it is a protectionist when it is in opposition and ultra-liberal when it is in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u122	For our part, we have constantly tried to repair the damage of the law of modernization of the economy, which has chosen in the short term the purchasing power of the French and, in the long term, the large distribution against sustainable public and private ecosystems for our agriculture. We are constantly fighting in this direction. We do it too timidly – we take our share of responsibility – but don't make me bear any responsibility to Stéphane Le Foll and to the Sapin II law while the law we are discussing is the comet tail, the complement to the LME. We have tried to re-establish loyalty contracts in the economy, this loyalty which is indeed the key word of what brings us together today. Will this law restore principles of loyalty? Unfair competition, in the agricultural field, amounts to collective suicide, factual suicide for men and women, suicide for our nation and for Europe at a time when the great powers are strengthening their agriculture because they have understood the stakes of soil and food in the 21st century, a global suicide finally: read the report of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the FAO, published on Tuesday and whose major newspapers echoed yesterday! The acceleration of climate change as a result of agricultural unrest threatens the very fertility of the soil and condemns us to a cycle of famines which, in turn, will cause incommensurable disorders on a global scale. Loyalty is wisdom; loyalty is to give regulated companies, in a regulated world, where we have set limits, new innovation capabilities, for an agriculture that has always been able to do so. I will reply to Richard Ramos by the image of the river, whose dynamic rests on the banks: if they disappear, it is no longer a river, but a swamp. The same applies to the dynamics of the economy and enterprise: we reject Shadoks globalization, a swampy globalization. We want rules of loyalty. And we want them first and foremost in the peasant world. In this case, we have to do a collective mea culpa. The peasantry had a community and cooperative tradition, but liberal individualism has caused great devastation: competition on markets, in land, overinvestments, disproportionate expansions, all this harms, is suicidal for the profession. The cooperative spirit, the spirit of sharing, the sharing of added value must be restored. Loyalty is also at the level of the nation – that is the reason for our debates. To allow the channels to organize in the absence of an arbitrator is to make fun of the world...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u123	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u124	... it is between David and Goliath – even if the fight ended well in this case! We need an arbitrator! Of course, we must trust the capacity for initiative and organisation of channels and territories, but we must have a capacity for judgment, a bank, so that the river does not become a swamp. For this to happen, public indicators are needed, public authorities must be able to say that there is a minimum, prohibitions, a limit. If we don't, we create an illusion. But disillusionment is worse than anything and would lead a peasant world very often and very long republican – exemplaryly since Gambetta at least – to turn to the populism that we all fight here. Loyalty within the peasant world, loyalty within the nation, Europe and, of course, on a global level because it will not hold without European regulations and multilateral negotiations to protect us from the bad winds of unfair competition. Otherwise, it would be to provide the poorest of us with food produced by poorer people than we do. This world, we don't want it! The very precise question of Article 1 of this law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector is: do we want to set limits, have a public arbitrator in trade negotiations for the sectors and for our territories? (Applause from the GDR Group)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u125	Excellent operation, well carpented!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u126	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u127	A few years ago, I met Régis Aubenas, who is a tree farmer in Chateauneuf-sur-Isère. In that year, he had a deficit of 75,000 euros. I asked him if it was because the French no longer liked peaches and apricots. He said no. He told me that it was because Spain, where social and environmental constraints are less, imposed its prices. "I produce at 1.10 euro a kilo," he explained, "and the big distribution buys them to me at 89 cents. It's the market price. The market, the all-market. Today, the price is on the highway. Yes, prices can change until the last moment. This is Sarko, the law of economic modernization," the LME, which he called the "Leclerc Michel Édouard" law. He added: "The price is negotiable all the time, but always in the same direction. » It is indeed this situation that we must get out of. It obviously concerns fruit and vegetables in the first place, since they are sold directly to the general distribution. We remember this arborist who explained by crying, at the microphone of France Inter, that he was going to cut all his peach and apricot trees. Since we were talking about the Ardèche earlier, I remember that a friend showed me a hill, once cultivated and planted with trees, which is now eaten by thorns and wild boars. This abandonment, which affects crops, also applies to dairy farming. One breeder explained to me, for example, that with Lactalis, the price is not negotiated, but imposed on arrival. It's like," he told me, "we didn't know the price of the breadstick until we bought it. It is, of course, the end of the quotas that caused prices to plunge and turned part of our farmers into marketers. This logic of the end of milk quotas continues today, with the end of the beet quotas. We'll see if the same cause produces the same effects. There is a single cause for all this, the fall of prices, which leads to misery, since the balance of power is completely unbalanced between the big distribution and the industrialists, on the one hand, and the peasants, on the other. But sometimes there is also another imbalance, between small industrialists and large-scale distribution. A cheese meal producer explained to me, for example, about the big distribution: "The sales price negotiations with them are infernal. My last date, in the box, I went out crying. In the course of my career, I beat myself up with sailors, though, dockers, but a thirty-year-old girl made me cry. Their thing is to charge you with delivery delays. Or they force you to make a promotion, you have no choice. There is a general rate, then you have to make a discount for computer order. Then, because you deliver to the warehouses and not to the store, second discount. And then, so happy to work with them, third discount. It's the triple net, we call it. And then the sanctions. For delay in delivery. Or, since we don't have fiber at home, in the town, it doesn't always go well through the internet: sanction. We'd need a 10% increase and we'd have an honest price. When you see that Auchan is gathering with Casino, it's a cartel. » The whole question is whether, with this law, we will be able to blow up this cartel. What should we do? Régis Aubenas, whom I quoted earlier, himself provided an answer. Indeed, the people of the field think: even if they have their feet stuck in the mud, their head goes beyond their ordinary. He said to me: "We need minimum prices, framed prices. Barriers are needed for products that do not meet environmental standards. I'm not the only one. A lot of people say that. We have social protection. Why don't we get economic protection? Why are we gonna leave jobs destroyed that we're never gonna find again? Why would we let mass unemployment get worse? And he concluded: "What I am convinced of is that there is no compatibility between the pursuit of agricultural activity in France and the total liberalisation of agricultural markets. » This reasoning is that of a man on the ground, of a peasant. But the great professor Marcel Mazoyer made exactly the same reasoning, when he came here to tell us that agrarian reforms, international agreements were needed to regulate, not to liberalize, and a common external tariff to prevent world prices from undermining domestic prices. What is being done, for the moment, is the opposite. More surprising: Olivier Allain, who was the coordinator of the general states of food, also agrees with us on this point. We exchanged with him during a "green class" that took place in Rungis. He said: "For me, in 1992, with the reform of the common agricultural policy, Europe missed a turning point. And the rest, in 1994, with the Marrakesh Accords. Getting into the competition at all-va, into free trade without a brake, then it started messing around. I asked him, I said the word forbidden, I asked him if he was a "protectionist." And he said, "Protectionist, yes, interventionist, regulatoryist. He went on to say, "Forcelessly, crises are questioning. » It's even more surprising! I would like to quote from Michel-Édouard Leclerc. It's a kind of double-sided Janus: you never know which side he's going to lean on. At a conference, albeit not very publicized, in the Inter-Allied Circle, he said, on February 5, 2018, about the general states of food: "I regret that our ministers and decision-makers take the problems of the sector from a moral point of view, not from a political point of view. I regret the lack of ambition and courage, as if the stakes were only to go to the agricultural fair without receiving eggs. [...] If the poverty of our farmers is a national cause, very well, then let us put a minimum price, a floor price. We have a minimum wage, why not a minimum price for milk and meat? This solution, it is not us, from the private sector, who can carry it, it is politics. If it's a national cause, let's go. Michel-Édouard Leclerc, on February 5, 2018, in front of the Interallied Circle, tells you, minister, that we parliamentarians need a minimum price, at least on milk and meat. You're caught in a contradiction. You know that it is necessary to regulate this market and, at the same time, this need is met by your doxa. You have not always shown the same dogmatism, Mr Travert, since you came from a moderate bench of the Socialist Party! This need to regulate comes first of all against Europe, and Michel-Édouard Leclerc himself stressed this difficulty, when he said: "We always have a risk, it can quickly be called "arrangement". And he recalled what happened for the pig: when the big distribution had been asked to raise the price of pork, paf!, Brussels had come punching on the table. In the same way, when I suggested that you introduce floor prices, when I suggested that you regulate this market, your first answer was to talk about Brussels, about Europe. You told me that there was a ban there, and that it was necessary to promote competition, above all. I think it is worth disobeying in Brussels, that it is worth going against Brussels, when it is the future of French agriculture that is at stake, and the transformation of our agricultural model. But we must not impute everything to Brussels. The other problem is that the Republic on the move, to which you now belong, Mr.Minister, is inhabited by this dogma, by this doxa of the market economy: the whole market, just the market. You said that yesterday, like François de Rugy. When you are proposed to regulate, you tell us that you do not want to go to an administered economy. I repeat, we can have a market that is temperate, framed, amortized. Finally, there is this huge contradiction that arises when farmers are asked to grow up and, at the same time, free trade agreements are signed at all costs, without reciprocity. We are not asking farmers in Mexico, the country with which we have signed an agreement, we are not asking Brazilian farmers or Canadian farmers to comply with all the health and environmental standards that are in place in our country. It is necessary to put competitiveness in parentheses, or at least to amortise it. Actually, you have a choice between two logics, Mr. Travert. First of all, there is the logic advocated by Mr Le Fur, on the other side of this House – a logic that has its consistency. He explains that to be more competitive at the global level, social dumping, tax dumping, environmental dumping are needed: in his view, it is the only solution for our agriculture to survive. The other logic, the one we are defending on this side of the House, is that we must regulate. The only solution for French agriculture to lift the head of the situation in which it finds itself – prices so low that farmers are reduced to misery – is to regulate. You tell us that you are for balance, that you are in the middle. But there comes a time when it doesn't hold, when you have to make a choice. You can't be on both sides: in the end, we don't know where you are anymore. You must make a choice between Mr Le Fur's logic, the logic of competitiveness, which is defended on the other side of this House, and the logic of regulation, which we are advocating, on this side of the House. The problem with this bill is that you don't choose. You do not indicate a course, there is no strong measure, because you sail on sight, without strong conviction and without ambition. It is for this reason that we find ourselves with a gas plant, especially with regard to framework agreements. You have to take a breath to read what you plan to do about it, in article 1! Instead of clearly establishing a framed market, you propose framework agreements, where price determination must take into account "one or more indicators relating to the relevant costs of production in agriculture and the evolution of these costs, one or more indicators relating to the prices of agricultural and food products". It is then up to a mediator to modify or delete framework agreements that he or she considers to be abusive or unbalanced. And if his mediation mission does not succeed within a month, you plan to refer a judge for arbitration... How fuzzy all this is! There is not a single indicator, there are several. We don't know who is going to fix them, and they won't even have a binding value, because we won't have the opportunity to punish the industrialists or the big distributors who will not respect these minimum tariffs vis-à-vis the peasants – who aren't, in fact. We're getting to a super-gasy, unreadable, inoperative device. And your text has other ambiguities! You say you want to trust interprofessionality. For my part, I do not trust an inter-occupation that is also crossed by power relations. In view of the conflicting forces that are going through it, I do not see how this inter-occupation will be able to agree on a fair price, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to agree on a way out of the plant protection system. The State must play its part. The Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – must intervene to validate these prices. The last point that makes your text a gas factory is the Nutella amendment, which prohibits promotions on Nutella in supermarkets. You really think that the big distribution, in its great generosity, will use these extra margins, not to squander dividends from its shareholders, but to kindly give money back to the peasantry? This is a great illusion and I doubt that you can be so naive, Minister. Our project is to regulate and fix floor prices, for example 40 cents per litre of milk, 1.5 euros per kilogram of pork or 150 euros per tonne of wheat. What for? This is obviously a social measure in favour of the hundreds of thousands of farmers who are now strangled. The figures are known: one in three farmers now live on less than 350 euros per month and, in 20 years, the number of farms has been divided by two. Peasants and farmers also feel humiliated by living more aid than just remuneration for their work. The regulation of prices and the setting of minimum prices guaranteeing farmers an income is therefore above all a social measure. But we see beyond: it is not a question of fixing a floor price to sit on it and not move. Our wish is to define a stable foundation, a secure future, a guarantee of income, through which farmers will be able to project themselves in the future. A future in which animal welfare and the exit of plant protection products will no longer appear to them merely as constraints and barriers to competitiveness. I will defend with force and conviction our amendments on Article 1, because without fair prices, without high prices for farmers and peasants, there will be no possible transformation of French agriculture. We will continue to move towards social, fiscal and environmental dumping and the planet will be further damaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u128	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u129	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I did not intend to speak on this article, but the previous speeches gave me the urge to react, in particular that of Mr Habib about the rapporteur and the work we have done. Perhaps he did not follow the debates at first reading. If he had done so, he could have noticed that after an extremely long debate, which even took us a whole weekend, everyone welcomed the quality of our work and the dialogue between the majority and the opposition, thanks precisely to the listening of our rapporteur. Mr Habib gives us lessons and reproaches us for our arrogance without taking the measure of his own arrogance. Rather, he should be modest and listen to the debates again, it would serve him well for the future. Moreover, to declare, even before discussing the first article, that this text will not be voted on, is to refuse the debate, which is regrettable when we are in the opposition. It is only natural that we disagree, but at least the debate should be held! Do not give up your work as a parliamentarian. Mr. Habib, who has a long experience in this function, should remember that. This text is based on two pillars. The first is to strengthen the role of farmers in trade negotiations. It is at least the political reading that we should have of the two proposed measures. It is envisaged that the price-setting mechanism will be made more transparent. Of course, the result will not be perfect, since large distribution is extremely powerful and will try by every means to circumvent regulation. In any case, arrangements are made to improve price structuring. The second measure is to strengthen inter-occupational relations, which Mr Ruffin disapproved of. We need to know what we want! To give farmers the means to defend themselves, they must be allowed to organize themselves into inter-occupations. Beyond the few negative effects that could result from this, let us not forget that interprofessionalism defends above all the agricultural world. And it is necessary to be powerfully organized to confront such opponents. When we stick to individuality as we do today, the outcome of the fight is known in advance. Strong interbranching is therefore imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u130	It's not just farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u131	I know that, but it is they that we are defending through this measure, because they need to organize themselves powerfully. The second pillar, following the commitments made in the general states of food, aims to strengthen dialogue with consumers and to move forward on a number of issues. There will always be to blame us for not going far enough. On the contrary, I believe that progress is significant. Many feared last May that farmers would not play the game. On the contrary, today it turns out that people are ready for dialogue. Of course, the period is in union elections and sometimes requires the adoption of certain positions. That's understandable. Nevertheless, in spite of this situation, trade union organisations say they are ready to engage in the process of reducing plant protection products. There are other similar developments in this text, and we must welcome them. We're going from afar, let's not forget it. Let us take the example of the law of modernization of the economy. Let us acknowledge that it did not help the farmers, even if the drafters of this text sincerely believed that they were doing a useful job. On the contrary, farmers found themselves weakened in the face of their interlocutors of the large-scale distribution, which used this text to strengthen the yoke on farmers. That was not the objective of this text, of course, but the result is there. That is why we must be vigilant, because the big operators will always want to divert the texts to their benefit. The majority, like the opposition, must be aware of the importance of the progress of this text. On the other hand, we will have to conduct further fighting collectively, Mr Minister, starting with the CAP. This fight will be essential. Nothing can be done without the CAP, provided that it remains united and is not nationalised in a smooth manner. We need an agricultural policy that remains common. It is one of the few common policies. At a time when many want to unblock Europe, especially this type of policy, we will have to be vigilant, in the interests of France, farmers and Europe. You will all understand that we will vote on this text. Nevertheless, in the course of the budgetary debate, we will have to keep an eye on the burden on wages. The latest announcements have raised a number of concerns and we will have to be the majority that can reduce social charges in the most employing sectors of the labour force. The French deficit, which has been growing steadily for twenty years, is partly due to this differential. Attention is also paid to the differential of burdens between European agriculture. It's another fight to fight. We must put an end to the unfair internal competition which is detrimental to French agriculture and to the European spirit. A French farmer cannot understand that his colleagues are not subject to the same constraints as he is. Let's not overload the French boat. It is pointless to do as in North Korea and to subject our products to an excess of standards. We live in an open world, and our agriculture has an export vocation, beyond its local food mission. We cannot defend this vision of agriculture and want to retreat within our borders, but we must adopt common and accepted rules. Other subjects will come to the table and I agree on one point with Mr Di Filippo, for once.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u132	For once!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u133	[[Smile]] It's a moment of grace, enjoy it. Don't be too touched, Mr. Di Filippo, it may not last, but don't feel compromised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u134	You need four years to get used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u135	You'll need as much to worry about us, we'll make it. It's a joke. I wanted to address the issue of drought and climate change, which will pose extremely serious problems for agriculture. Consideration should be given to changing cultural practices. We see the evolutions that go through the world of vines and wine, the methods of breeding, the fluctuations in production from year to year. We will have to find assurance mechanisms that allow farmers to cope with climatic hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u136	Not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u137	That's not a big word. Insurance has existed for a long time and is useful to many people. This is not necessarily a bad idea, but other systems can be envisaged, particularly in the tax field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u138	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u139	That was just one example I was quoting. In conclusion, I would remind Mr Habib that, in order to be able to harvest, we must have sown. Let him think, before giving lessons, about everything that has been sown for years, that he observes the current situation. This text allows significant progress on both pillars, in the interests of farmers and our citizens. In this capacity, I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u140	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u141	This exercise is always frustrating. I am thinking of the time that we have to manage at best to allow ourselves to consider the 900 amendments tabled, especially since we are subject to the scheduled time. However, it is a multitude of questions that have been asked. I have a furious desire to respond precisely to each one, to explain our proposals and share this ambition with you in the service of our agriculture. We will do so during the discussion of the amendments, but I would like to give some answers. Mr. Sébastien Leclerc was right to repeat a statement by Alexis de Tocqueville, to describe the Normans as "violently moderate people." In particular, it targeted the inhabitants of the Cotentin of which he was elected. Violently moderate, of course, but determined to explain and convince. It is therefore imperative not to reject this text before any debate. We need to debate in order to form an opinion. Once informed, national representation can make its choice, in complete freedom. We need to work together and move forward on many issues. I will not go back to the CAP, but we must jointly defend a French position, at the level of Parliament, of professional agricultural organisations, of citizens, in order to make our country's voice heard better in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u142	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u143	We therefore need a Europe that allows us to take strong action. Dominique Potier pointed out that in the previous quinquennium we did not succeed in countering certain European provisions. That's right, but we tried. I was one of those who, by his side, led these fights. Today, when these same requests are made to me, the answer is known in advance. We can try to send signs to Europe, to carry out certain debates, as the monthly meeting of agriculture ministers allows us to do, but if we disobey Europe, in Brussels, as Mr Ruffin calls us, if we do not comply with the regulations that we have imposed on ourselves, Europe no longer exists. However, we need cohesion and coherence in this Europe all the more as it is now crossed by nationalist movements that call for self-absorbing. On the contrary, a Europe of solidarity can bring us the best, thanks to the policies we are pursuing to combat food insecurity, poverty – a theme addressed today by the President of the Republic – nationalisms. We must defend this agricultural ambition, which has no other objective but to feed the men and women of the world. Other questions have been asked which I will not come back to, such as TODE. I provided some answers yesterday. We are thinking about this problem, because we are well aware of the difficulties faced by market gardeners, farmers and tree growers. We are neither deaf nor blind. We're talking about trying to find solutions. We are also studying tax measures. Some have criticized us for the lack of taxation in this bill. This text is not an agricultural guidance law. It aims to balance trade relations and ensure safe, healthy and sustainable food. Tax measures such as precautionary savings or contingency funding that Bruno Le Maire and I want to put in place to help farmers, will be presented to you in the next finance bill. Mr Habib referred to simple disadvantaged areas. Farmers in the territories affected by freezing, hail, weather, drought may feel that they are facing a double penalty. But we are working to find solutions, with elected representatives and all agricultural actors, to transform our agriculture in these difficult territories. Let us now enter into the heart of the matter, addressing article 1. What is the Government's ambition? The reversal of the contract is articulated to a set of defined tools: the producer becomes a production force. However, producers will be heard all the more as they will have come together in OP – producer organisation – or PDO – producer organisation associations. It is essential that the legal framework that we draw together here allows farmers to come together in order to be stronger and to weigh on their buyers, whether they are large-scale retailers or processors. In addition, price construction will be based on indicators of production and market costs. We are all driven by the same objective: to make arrangements that are applicable and fully operational. I understand the questions that are being asked here and which are at the origin of many amendments: how can such provisions be implemented? Who will develop the indicators? How will indicators be used? It seems to me that there is a broad consensus that it is up to the interbranch to carry out this work. They will bring together all the colleges to define the indicators: this is for the method. Our role will be to support them and to make them understand that they need to find consensus on indicators that will then be used to define the price.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u144	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u145	Contractual freedom requires the parties to determine freely the elements of the contract. We cannot impose the use of any indicator. Indicators must be freely chosen by interprofessionals: this is their freedom. In fact, they are best placed to determine the cost of production indicators themselves. There is a need for indicators that reflect the specific situation of each interbranch and transaction. Public indicators exist: they are already widely used. However, other indicators may be relevant. Inter-branch operators will be available for use by inter-branch operators to draw up their contracts. The strength of these indicators will be all the more important as they will have been validated by all the links in the chain. For this reason, the current text refers to indicators "which can serve as reference indicators". I know how difficult it can be for interprofessional exchanges to be. I have received them since the end of June: I was able to see, at these meetings, the tension that exists within them when it comes to reaching agreement, in particular in order to succeed in ensuring that the distribution joins the problems encountered by the producers. The solution is not, in my view, in the abandonment of the measure or in an early finding of failure, as some claim. However, I hear criticisms about the lack of agreement within an inter-occupation, which deprives economic operators of reference. That is the concern you have raised in your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u146	The grave worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u147	The first reading of the text resulted in two real improvements. Interprofessionals may seek the support and technical expertise of the Price and Margin Training Observatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u148	They can!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Some are already doing so in this exercise. They will also be able to rely on the mediator, in case of blockage within the colleges. In our discussions, we will need to further clarify the role of inter-professions. The rapporteur, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, whom I would like to commend for the work and the mobilisation on this text, with a view to making it a great collective success for farmers, tabled Amendment No 983 as corrected, which seems to me to strike a perfect balance between the mobilisation of inter-branch workers and the legal framework for them. This amendment, as I have already indicated, ladies and gentlemen, I will support it, because it is in the direction that you want and that all operators want. It is through discussion that we build the necessary compromises, allowing lasting progress to be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u150	We shall now proceed to the amendments. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u151	This amendment is in line with the Minister's final remarks, with a view to strengthening the role and place of the proposed framework agreement of the producer organisation within the framework of the proposed framework agreement, so that this proposal is the sole basis for negotiation. It should be imposed in parallel with the general conditions of sale.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u152	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u153	The amendment proposes that the individual agreement should not derogate from the framework agreement: the drafting of Article 1 already satisfies this concern since individual contracts concluded for the volumes of products concerned by marketing via producer organisations cannot derogate from the framework agreement. Contracts which will derogate from the framework agreements will be sanctioned under Article L. 631-25 of the Rural and Maritime Code, as drafted in the second paragraph of Article 2 of the text – I would point out that, at first reading, we have noted the sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u154	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 53, 78, 87, 137, 160, 199, 213, 227, 338, 475, 516, 570, 780, 238 and 381, which may be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 53, 78, 87, 137, 160, 199, 213, 227, 338, 475, 516, 570 and 780 are identical. The same applies to Amendments Nos 238 and 381. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u155	When the producer has mandated his producer organisation to conduct the trade negotiation, this PO must be the sole contact of the buyer. The text must be very clear in this respect, otherwise it may not be structuring. The amendment therefore seeks to provide an indispensable clarification on this point – a concern that is widely shared if I judge by the number of identical amendments tabled on all benches, including those of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u156	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u157	This amendment makes a proposal of common sense: if we allow transactions to take place outside the framework agreement signed with the professional organisation, we open the door to all abuses. Of course, I have heard the rapporteur's arguments: however, as everyone seems to agree, it is better to include this clarification in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u158	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u159	We want to strengthen the concept of contracting. Moreover, for the past ten years, successive agriculture ministers – Bruno Le Maire, Stéphane Le Foll and yourself, Mr Travert – have asked farmers to come together as producers' organisations, in order to entrust the heads of these organisations with the task of negotiating contracts with, for example, an industrial dairy. The purpose of these amendments is to strengthen producer organisations. Indeed, while the industrialist can discuss individually with the members of the producer organisations, contracting no longer makes any sense. It is as if a minister of agriculture asked the president of the majority group to take shape with a government project and that a member of this group had the farfetched idea of tabling an amendment that lights fire – for example an amendment on glyphosate –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u160	Like by chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u161	... and contradicts the strategy that the minister had clearly defined. Although we are all convinced here that glyphosate should be banned, it is enough for a Member to table an amendment to this effect to ignite the hemicycle and France as a whole, without solving the problem and even though the Government's will was to abolish the use of glyphosate as soon as possible. Such a situation had therefore weakened the political group and the Government without solving the problem. The same will apply to producer associations: if POs are mandated to negotiate and, at the same time, a farmer or farmer can sign directly with an industrialist, then the sense of contracting is lost and POs are weakened. These amendments are intended to prevent such a situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u162	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u163	Mr Minister, like many of us, you had to go through the agricultural committees this summer and meet with many OP officials, who are very concerned about the turn of events. At the end of the first reading of the text in the House, we reached a reasonable agreement prohibiting the diversion of framework agreements. OPs need to be strengthened, which are an indispensable tool in the negotiations. That is why, in order not to dissuade them, I believe it is essential to adopt these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u164	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u165	Without being the alpha and the omega – do not make any illusions – contracting goes in the right direction, however, because it allows us to engage in more virtuous agreements and to raise prices and margins somewhat. That is why I support it, provided, however, that there are no filous who constantly ingenuity to pass through the meshes of the net. Now we know a lot of filous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u166	Especially in this middle!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u167	Indeed, every time we have passed laws to regulate negotiations, it has taken us a few months to realize that they are of no use because they are permanently circumvented. We want, whenever possible, to place producer organisations at the centre of the game: that is why we are proposing amendments in the direction of better clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u168	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 199.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u169	As previous speakers have already pointed out, these amendments clarify the text by depriving a buyer of the possibility of circumventing a framework agreement signed with an OP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u170	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u171	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u172	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u173	Mr Minister, we begin the discussion of Article 1 with a series of amendments aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the system. If we really want to rebalance the relationship between buyers – we all know how much they are both concentrated and legally armed – and producer organisations, we need to provide instruments that cannot be circumvented. It is therefore necessary to adopt not only this amendment but also all the amendments, including those relating to indicators, in order to fulfil the promise that has been made to producers and not to disappoint their enormous expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u174	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u175	This is an amendment of common sense, security and legal efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u176	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u177	It is always difficult to reform the agricultural sector economically, because the balance of power between farmers and distribution channels is unfair and it is the farmers who are obviously in a weak position. I still have in mind the event organized last year by the Rural Coordination in front of the Palais-Bourbon, which had not attracted the attention of the majority. A lady, tears in her eyes, told me how much farmers can no longer work every day at a loss. She reminded me – the figures have already been given – that the cost of producing a baguette sold 1 euro amounts to 5 cents and that farmers receive only 3 cents, representing a loss of 0.02 cents per baguette. To put an end to such an aberrant situation, the framework agreement is a good solution, provided, however, – many of us have stressed it since yesterday – that it is not optional, otherwise the scheme will lose its full interest. That is why the amendment seeks to clarify that it is "in all cases" that the framework agreement must be used and that there is no question of derogation from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u178	I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u179	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u180	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 570.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u181	In order to prevent the farmer from being in a weak position, the role of producer organisations in the negotiation of the framework agreement should be strengthened. In this way, we will ensure that a producer who has given a mandate to its PO cannot be requested on-line by a buyer to negotiate a contract before the framework agreement has been concluded.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u182	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 780.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u183	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u184	I would point out that, in the joint debate, Amendments Nos 238 and 381 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u185	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u186	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u187	Like the previous amendments, it aims to reinforce the role of OPs in the scheme. The general states of food have given rise to much hope, and one of the major objectives of this bill is to rebalance the relationship between distributors and producers. To do this, one of the tools is to go through the POs for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u188	What is the opinion of the committee on all the amendments submitted for joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u189	The Government has introduced flexibility in those sectors for which contracting has not been made mandatory. For these sectors, Article 1 already introduces a lot of formalism: that is why I think we need to maintain some flexibility. In some sectors, framework agreements are not necessarily appropriate. If these amendments were adopted, they would put producers involved in a producer organisation that had not signed a framework agreement in difficulty. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u190	On the identical amendments Nos 53, 78, 87, 137, 160, 199, 213, 227, 338, 475, 516, 570 and 780, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion on all the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u191	We have already discussed this issue extensively, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. The wording we have found, which restricts the requirement for a framework agreement to those sectors which have chosen to make contracting compulsory, is now balanced: that is why I do not wish to amend it. I fully share the objective of rebalancing the commercial relationship between the producer and his first buyer: that is the raison d'être of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations. The aim is to bring together producers and provide them with a sufficiently balanced and harmonised framework for negotiations, which will enable them, as I said earlier, to have sufficient weight in the negotiations with the buyer. In this context, under contract law, a producer who has mandated the marketing of his products to the OP is obliged to comply with the guidelines laid down by the latter, unless he revokes the mandate and therefore resigns from the OP. Therefore, the buyer does not have the opportunity to circumvent the OP. In sectors where there is not much contracting – we have already talked about the beef sector, where the contracting rate is now only 2% – the requirement of a framework agreement could be an obstacle to the marketing of its production for the producer. It would take away any source of income. On the other hand, in some cases the negotiation between the OP or the PDO and the buyer may result in a failure. We have to take that into account. From a practical point of view, producers could be encouraged not to set up in OPs to avoid any risk of blocking them from selling their production. The current wording of Article 1 provides that OPs must propose a framework agreement and that it constitutes the sole basis for negotiation, within the meaning of the general conditions of sale laid down in the Commercial Code. That is why I give an unfavorable opinion to all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u192	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u193	I agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and the Minister. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u194	I knew it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u195	Wise decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to return to your seats. We wait a few moments before we proceed to the public ballot, because the five minutes of the rules have not passed. ............................................................................................................. I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 53, 78, 87, 137, 160, 199, 213, 227, 338, 475, 570 and 780.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u197	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 25 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u198	Did you vote for or against, Mr. Rebeyrotte?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u199	Go and find out! He's campaigning for his group's presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u200	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u201	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u202	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 946.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u203	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u204	[[Smile]] We still don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u205	I have before me two amendments, Nos 241 and 138, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u206	This amendment, the first signatory of which is Dino Cinieri, is intended to prohibit calculation formulae which prevent the producer from knowing the price at which he will be paid during the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u207	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u208	This amendment, similar to that of Mr Cinieri, aims to clarify and clarify the wording of the price clause. The producer must be able to determine the price at which he will be paid throughout the duration of the contract, in particular at the end of the contract. The aim is to avoid inadequate or overly convoluted calculation formulae.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u209	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u210	We have already considered these amendments at first reading, and I maintain my unfavorable opinion. The price of products paid by buyers is often the result of complex calculation formulas; for many products, it cannot be determined in advance, otherwise the contract would systematically fix a selling price! For example, the price of milk is not determinable in advance, because it depends on the quality of the product – I will not explain in detail the mechanism for setting the price of milk. It therefore seems to me complicated to introduce in paragraph 7 the notions of "specified" or "determinable" prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u212	I would like to draw your attention to the new paragraph 37 adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs last July, which will satisfy your expectations: in the cow's milk sector, the buyer will have to communicate "readily and comprehensiblely" the price which will be paid "before the first day of delivery of the products". Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u213	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u214	Mr rapporteur, Mr Minister, it is clear that we cannot determine in advance the protein level or the buttery level of milk, or a number of other data. However, these elements can very well be included in the price-setting criteria. For a very long time, the price of milk was determined in advance: in the context of interbranching, a price grid was drawn up almost one year in advance. This practice is therefore entirely possible. While these amendments are obviously safe for the producer, they also give the collector some legibility. I do not see what is preventing us from setting the price of the products in advance – in any case, there is no technical element preventing us from doing so. I repeat, this practice has already taken place a few years ago since price grids were drawn up over a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u215	You have to count, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u216	The Members of the La République on the move do not raise their hands!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u217	Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, I looked in detail at who was raising his hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u218	We come to Amendment No 88. On this amendment, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u219	In contracts and framework agreements, it is necessary to distinguish between the starting price paid to the producer and the arrival price at the plant. I will once again try to convince you, Mr Minister of Agriculture, who are also elected from a territory where milk production is very important – I am referring to Normandy, and more specifically to the English Channel. We encourage farmers, in their diversity, to produce quality. We encourage channels to seek excellence. Today, Minister, in your department of the English Channel, a number of milk producers are entangled in the Synutra affair, by the name of this Chinese company that comes to invest in us. Moreover, it would be better to support the French when they invest, because it is clear that Chinese investments are a source of complications. The producers will therefore want to organize themselves and, since they produce quality milk, as is the case in the English Channel, in Brittany and elsewhere in the national territory, will want to make a milk with high environmental value, which we discussed at first reading, and which will also have high nutritional value – rich, for example, in omega 3 – and with high social value: we will then talk about the social role of the company and that which we want to entrust to French agriculture. This milk will therefore meet the three criteria of high environmental, nutritional and social value. Farmers will then form a producer organisation, or even a collecting cooperative, and then launch a consultation with industrialists. In the English Channel, they may ask Agrial, and perhaps Sodiaal, who is not far away, and may launch a consultation with Lactalis. In Ille-et-Vilaine, they may address Triballat, an excellent family industrial company. On the basis of this consultation, they will choose the best in terms of collection costs. In fact, the quality milk I mentioned earlier, with high nutritional, environmental and social value, will not be mixed with "conventional" milk. This is how the industry is structured and how excellence is supported. Then we can have processed products and organize proximity circuits. Minister, to talk about what I know well – indeed, I am bathed in milk: in Fougères, we piss milk, and good milk, buckets and cisterns! – and on a subject that Christian Jacob is also familiar with, we have witnessed for thirty years a grouping of industrial tools, which are now transforming volume, and I am convinced that in the coming months and years we will experience a rapprochement of the milk processing units of the production basins, i.e. that we will see the appearance of short chains, short circuits and that we will see producers federate, equip themselves with tools of proximity and sell to the consumer, nearby, identified milks, of high quality and traced, at competitive prices and, above all, at prices that rewarded the producers. That is the meaning of this amendment, to which I would like, Mr.Minister, as I do with the plum of your eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u220	It's a declaration of love!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u221	That is why, on behalf of the UDI Group, I have asked for a public vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u222	Maybe a birthday present?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u224	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU groups and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Benoit, since it is your birthday today, I take this opportunity to wish you well. Unfortunately, I will not give you a present, because I was against this amendment at first reading and am also in a new reading. On the one hand, the paragraph in question does not concern only milk...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u225	I wrote: "In particular"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u226	Of course, the amendment would not, moreover, be in favour of all producers, because if it is of interest in areas with high milk density, it would be rather unfavourable to producers in areas with low milk density. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u228	Mr President, there are indeed differences between the territories in terms of the density of the places of collection. You propose to introduce the logistical costs of this collection. Today, however, there is nothing to prevent the interprofessionalisation of milk from including these costs in the choice of its indicators. Indeed, it may take more time to reach a farm closer than that which is, for example, 50 kilometres from the dairy, because the cost of collection is necessarily different in the plain areas, such as those you know in Ille-et-Vilaine or in the Norman plain, and in the mountain area, where this cost is obviously higher, because the planning of the territory is, as far as farms are concerned, more diffuse, with more distant places of collection. The situation is increasingly complicated in mountain countries. [[Smile]] The text already provides that interprofessionals may include among the indicators they freely choose those logistical costs which would be added to the construction of the price of milk. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, but I do not want to join all the Members in wishing you, Mr Benoit, a very happy birthday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u229	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u230	[[Smile]] For his philosophy, I support Mr Thierry Benoit's amendment, with some technical clarifications. I support it not only because we are not 20 years old every day, but because we have tabled a number of amendments in this direction ourselves. I repeat: with regard to this very technical issue of milk, which Christian Jacob is familiar with, all the experts tell us that, if there are no four or five milk basins – they differ in number – organised in PDOs, the scale of negotiations is not the right one given the processing and distribution operators that we have to deal with. As for the efforts in favour of the PDOs, I would like, Mr Minister – and it does not cost you anything at this moment, but it will be a sign of hope for the negotiations on the common agricultural policy – to tell us that you will use Pillars 1 and 2 not only to constitute PDOs on a declarative basis, but also that you will, as we have done in the sheep sector, arm the constitution of large PDOs that are at the level of the negotiations that we will have to conduct, otherwise everything else is literature. Secondly, Mr Benoit, you state your willingness to value specificities within the framework agreements of these major PDOs. We are, of course, in favour of this and have tabled an amendment – which I will not defend when it is called – to ensure that the signs of identification of quality and origin – SIQO – are given priority in the event of a framework agreement and tend to increase the range of these framework agreements. This is in some way a basic price, given the ecosystem context of the large region and the large dairy, cattle or sheep basin, plus the possibility of raising the value of qualities. I am, on the other hand, more reserved with regard to the idea that you have raised of a new label in terms of nutritional quality and social will. During the Grenelle de l'Environnement – it was under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, and I therefore show openness by mentioning it – was created the label of high environmental value – HVE. We cannot limit ourselves to opposing bio and the rest of agriculture: since we can modify this label by decree and make it clear, the high environmental value can synthesize a capacity to advance agroecology with a territorial mark. We can make it an appointment for the metropolises, for the out-of-home catering – RHD – and for the communities of communes who will want to engage in this field: a territorial brand that synthesizes all that you expect and that we cannot disperse into a multiplicity of labels, otherwise we will die from it and let the private one set its own reference signs, which would not be a gift for our producers or for our consumers. A final point: the tripartite conventions you have accepted are a powerful lever to achieve what Thierry Benoit wants. These are commitments signed for several years by producer organisations, processors and distributors, on a basis that allows everyone to be paid with dignity for the work he has done. If these tripartite agreements are reported to consumers, I do not doubt for a second that the French give them priority in their purchases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u231	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u232	I am not taking the floor to respond, but rather to talk to the minister. Your text, Minister – and I am also looking at the rapporteur with this subject – is intended to give back the hand to farmers. I take the example of milk, a subject that I know well in the West of France. With milk quotas, farmers were encouraged to produce volumes and told to remain silent, ensuring a price that would allow them to be paid. In 2010-11, the end of milk quotas was presented as an opportunity. For my part, and even if it is very difficult, I see it – for I have always defended the idea that there should be as much freedom as possible and as much regulation as necessary – an opportunity to hand over to farmers, to give them back sovereignty and a capacity to organise themselves, to encourage proximity circuits and, above all, to continue, accompany or encourage the restructuring of industrial sectors by means of so-called "neighbourly" tools, which I find very interesting. Indeed, as Dominique Potier said earlier, if we look at milk production in France in general, we distinguish between the large western basin and mountain areas, but within these large production regions there are, however, small natural regions. Indeed, the situation in the English Channel is not quite the same as that prevailing in Ille-et-Vilaine or Loire-Atlantique. If farmers so wish, there may be, depending on the sectors, specific features, which are highlighted by allowing grouping and differentiated collection. The adverb "in particular" indicates that it is not mandatory, that it may be one of the criteria for the construction of the price to separate the ex-seller price, i.e. the ex-producer price, from the factory price, which is not the same. That is the meaning of this amendment, which I therefore maintain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u233	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u234	Our colleague's amendment raises the question of fixing the cost of delivery. I therefore wonder, and I also wonder, what effect such a provision could have in areas where farms can be removed from the point of convergence of collection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u235	Cantal is not the Ille-et-Vilaine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u236	In this respect, in mountain areas in particular, the scheme should not have an effect contrary to what you expected to achieve with this amendment. So I'm pretty dubious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u237	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u238	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u239	I was also asking myself in this regard. The word "in particular" certainly allows flexibility to be introduced into the scheme, but, if I am in favour of very important production units, I invite you to bear in mind that, in certain collection areas – I am thinking in particular of mountain areas, where we produce, for example, beaufort or, in the Vosges, munster – these are usually small units, for which the cost of collecting is always more unfavourable. However, as the territories are constituted – in the case of beaufort, for example – there will never be 150 cows on farms, because it is not the farm model that prevails. I therefore wonder, because I understand the spirit of the amendment, but we must be careful that it is not penalising, in terms of spatial planning, certain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u240	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u241	The bill is designed to strengthen business lines and organizations, as we must trust our farmers and their ability to build collective intelligence in the face of challenges. I will cite only the example of the county: the Interprofessional County Management Committee – CIGC – is an example of successful contracting, which spans three departments, with 8,000 jobs. These organisations have faced all the difficulties, in a difficult terroir – the end of quotas and the rear margins – and have introduced green plates, and today it works: dairy producers benefit from a remunerative price and have developed a brand image of excellence. Together they organize campaign plans and manage to impose their prices on the big distribution. They even imposed on Europe the use of the canvases, coppers and wood that were to be banned. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us trust that it is not the laws or the amendments that will change things. For my part, I trust the ability of our farmers to organize themselves and succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u242	No relation to the subject! We didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u243	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u244	Let me talk to Vincent Descœur and Christian Jacob. We had the same discussion at first reading, and you spoke – quite rightly, indeed. That is why I tried to refine my thinking a little by talking to the farmers, who suggested this amendment to me. This is all the difficulty, all the gymnastics we have to do, given the general states of diet. The amendment that I am defending will not change anything for the Jurasian fruit trees that produce from the county and will not remove anything from them. In general, they resort to the Montbéliard breed – the cows in the East – and produce mainly from the county, which is a success, a huge success. Christian Jacob quoted the Vosges and Savoys earlier, where there is no problem. In the West, on the other hand, we find ourselves in a region that produces volume. The same applies to industrialists, except for exceptions – I am thinking of Triballat, Noyal-sur-Vilaine, and the Clanchin family, who have been cultivating excellence for forty or fifty years, and thus precede the developments we are debating today. They are therefore not aware of these problems, as they are both in volume markets and in specific products. I come back to this amendment, because I have met farmers: in the West we have been able to make volumes – I am speaking for us, the Britons – but we have not been sufficiently interested in the quality and the downstream of the sector, i.e. processing and distribution. Now, farmers want to take their destiny into their own hands. At the time of the debate on the general states of food, they want us to allow them to organize themselves and to impose themselves in the face of industrialists. The milk producer of the fern basin or the Rennes basin will not send his milk to Franche-Comté to make the county! He wants to value on the spot and transform on the spot. We, elected Breton – along with Gilles Lurton, Marc Le Fur and Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie – want tools for transformation. We were in Fougères on Sunday morning, with Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie and the minister, for the inauguration of a mineral manufacturing plant: it is a nearby factory, and we are very happy when we have tools of proximity! I therefore hope that the Breton farmers and other regions will structure themselves, launch a consultation and, if they so wish, be able to ask in the construction of the price to separate the "ex-producer" price from the "factory arrival" price. And so, in the West, we could establish segmentations, separate collections, distinguish milks according to their origin – small geographical region – and their quality. With this, it is possible to build markets and move towards a fair sharing of added value, which you have been advocating for a year, Mr Minister of Agriculture. That is the answer I wanted to give to Christian Jacob and Vincent Descoeur. Furthermore, the amendment specifies that this concerns "in particular" the price collected at the seller's headquarters and the price delivered to the buyer: it is not an obligation. Moreover, this will not remove anything from the Jurassians, the Savoyards, the producers of the Central Massif, who have been structured for centuries, since they are centuries old traditions. It is well known that these noble products, oriented towards excellence, are not experiencing the crisis. The Bretons, the Normans, the colleagues of the Pays de la Loire can do beautiful things if we help them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u245	I put to the vote Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u246	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 21 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u247	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-13-E2003.u248	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion, on further reading, of the bill on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all. The meeting is adjourned.
