ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u1	The President of the National Assembly received from the Prime Minister communication of the decree of the President of the Republic dated 18 June 2018 calling the Parliament in extraordinary session on Tuesday, 3 July 2018. The agenda for this special session will be published in the Official Journal of 19 June 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u2	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u3	[[Laughs]] Madam President, can you specify the date on which the special session will end?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u4	My dear colleague, I do not know, but we cultivate secret hopes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u5	Will it be a special session without a time limit?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u6	Like last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u7	No, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u8	The issue was raised at the Conference of Presidents. According to the instructions of the President of the National Assembly, but these are only indications, the special session is expected to end at the end of July or the beginning of August.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u9	Maybe the night of August 4th!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u10	[[Smile]] Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u11	The next item is the questions on the cancellation of appropriations in 2017. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor for the first of his two questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u12	In July 2017, the Government took responsibility for cancelling €850 million of the "Defence" mission's appropriations. This decision led to an unprecedented crisis between the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces and the President of the Republic, which resulted in the resignation of General Pierre de Villiers, who felt that he could no longer carry out his mission in conscience. This cancellation of appropriations took place in a context of extreme tension within our armies, as a result of the extraordinary operational commitment of our forces for several years. This massive amputation of defence credits was experienced as a real betrayal. It is now possible to take stock of this provision. As many of us feared at the time, the Court of Auditors indicated that it had caused significant carry-overs of commitments. Yet the information of parliamentarians on this subject remains very vague. The Special Rapporteur of the Budget Mission, François Cornut-Gentille, interviewed the Ministry of Armed Forces. According to him, the answers he has obtained show a clear and deplorable will to avoid. Of course, the department did provide some information on how it sought to mitigate the effects of credit cancellations, but almost none on their actual effects, which it did not prevent. The list of processes used to minimize them is surprisingly accurate with respect to the list of orders that have been delayed. However, the investment expenditure of programme 146, which prepares the future, has a very strong multiplier coefficient: for 1 euro of budget deleted, it is in fact almost 10 euros that will not be spent on financing the equipment programmes. It is precisely when trying to find out which programmes have been penalized that the difficulties begin. That is why we ask you, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, to tell us precisely and unambiguously which projects and missions have had to be recalibrated due to the cancellation of €850 million in appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u13	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u14	Mr President, you are referring to the cancellation of EUR 850 million in appropriations by the advance decree published in July. The Ministry of Armed Forces manages every appropriation it has budget line by budget line, according to its strategic objectives and the means of defence necessary for our country to deal with both the terrorist threat and the needs arising from external intervention. You are referring to a €850 million freeze on the defence mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u15	A cancellation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u16	A cancellation, forgive me. This was part of a procedure to keep the government deficit below 3% of GDP, which was the case at the end of the fiscal year. You could have specified, to be quite complete, that we thawed, moreover, 1.2 billion from July 2017 – credits that were not cancelled but frozen – and 700 million last December.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u17	December 27th!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u18	This means that the amount of thawing of appropriations is far more than the amount of cancellations of appropriations you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u19	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u20	Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the recently adopted military programming law provides for an increase in the appropriations allocated to the Ministry of Armed Forces of EUR 1.7 billion per year throughout the programming period. The aim is to increase the nation's budgetary effort in favour of the Ministry of Armed Forces to 2% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u21	In 2025!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u22	Perhaps it would have been necessary to support the law of military programming to be able to then welcome the fact that the Ministry of Armed Forces has the necessary means to ensure the security of the French. What I can assure you is that it faces all the challenges it faces and all the challenges it faces. It makes every effort to ensure the security of the French, both within and outside the country. The regulatory measures and budgetary freezes that we had to decide on last July had no effect on the security of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u23	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u24	I hope that she will receive a more precise answer. A little less than a year ago, in the summer of 2017, the government of which you are a member, Secretary of State, chose to move towards austerity. No one was spared. The decision was taken to reduce the allocation to local and regional authorities by €275 million. It has forced them to give up hundreds of investment and solidarity projects. It has prevented hundreds of integration and local economic development actions. With this decision, your slogans on "the truths of the ground" appeared already for what they are: hollow words used to deceive. Of course, these cancellations will have harmed the territories whose populations are the most vulnerable. They will have further weakened those who need the support of local and regional authorities to set up a business, find a job or benefit from a public service which the State, more and more often than not, is no longer in a position to render. Of course, this cancellation of credits was in line with the "austerity" logic of François Hollande's quinquennium, to which Emmanuel Macron, we cannot repeat, has made a decisive contribution. It participates in the general movement to dry up local public finances. For example, the overall operating budget suffered a disastrous haemorrhage, with an amount reduced by 26%. And this will not improve: your budgetary programming for the coming years will force local and regional authorities to give up almost 13 billion euros. At the time, Secretary of State, you had not yet turned casaque, and you found a little bit of energy to write a forum on the subject. You were president of the Association des petits villes de France and considered these budget cancellations as the warning signs of the disastrous decisions that would then be taken. The removal of tens of thousands of assisted jobs, decided at the time, was, in your opinion, the result of "a hasty decision that only makes losers". You were perfectly aware of that a year ago. Looking forward to the future, you expressed it without vehemently but nevertheless with clarity. Now, I'm curious how you can justify the cancellations you then reprove. Will you be able to demonstrate that they were so well targeted that they were painless, and that your words of the time did not deserve to be heard? Our fellow citizens will be built on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u25	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u26	Mr President, you are asking me about something that I know relatively well. You raise the issue of state support for investment, referring more specifically to the cancellation of payment appropriations for the 2017 budget year. I had indeed commented on it, saying that it was a bad blow and that I considered that the method was not the right one, because the cancellation was taking place three days after the National Conference of Territories. And the President of the Republic said, in front of the Congress of Mayors of France, that indeed the method could have been better. You are asking me, through this question, about the state's level of commitment to support local investment for the 2017 fiscal year. Let me just point out, as we are discussing tonight the issue of the cancellations of appropriations for the financial year 2017, which, in implementation, over the whole of 2017, the State has supported local investment to the tune of 863 million euros, compared to 700 in 2016. This means that the cancellations of credits you mentioned have not diminished the state's support to local authorities for investment, which has increased in execution. Moreover – and far from me the idea of pretending that this is painless – it should be noted that the figures of INSEE, like those of the Observatory for Local Finance and Public Management, corroborate this, that 2017 marks a phase of increase in the investment of local authorities. After a recession period of almost 10% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016, local investment is going up sharply in 2017, with an increase of 5.7% – outside the Société du Grand Paris, to be quite precise. This means that local authorities invested more in 2017 than in 2016. This also means – the figures speak – that in 2017 local authorities generated a higher operating savings than in 2016, which is also due to the fact that the decrease in state allocations, expected for 2017 to the tune of 3.67 billion euros, has been reduced to 2.7 billion. The decrease of one billion less was entirely allocated to the local bloc – communes and intercommunities – due to the mobilization of several parliamentarians committed to local freedoms. The efforts that have been requested from local authorities are important, I said and I maintain it. We've always said it. They have made this effort. That is why we have changed our method. We are now looking forward to stable allocations in exchange not for a reduction in their expenditure but for a moderation of their increase, which is quite different.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u27	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u28	I would like to return to the cancellations of the appropriations allocated by the original Finance Act for 2017 to the mission "Research and higher education" carried out last July by the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Admittedly, the budget of the budget mission has increased in the 2018 Finance Law compared to the original Finance Law for 2017. But this increase must be relativized, because you have associated it with a cancellation of credits, Secretary of State. As a reminder, €398.55 million in commitment authorisations and €331.33 million in payment appropriations were cancelled by decree in 2017. If a residual part of the credits was cancelled by your predecessors by the order of March 28, 2017, you were in charge in July and November 2017, when two decrees were issued opening and cancelling credits. By comparison, EUR 150 million and EUR 175 million had been cancelled in 2016 and 2015, respectively, about twice as much. According to the Court of Auditors, such cancellation amounts appear to be exceptional in relation to the amounts recorded in previous years. These cancellations mean EUR 81.6 million less for school education, EUR 95 million less for universities and EUR 46 million less for student life. The Ministry then defended itself by arguing that the cancellation of appropriations for research and higher education amounted to only EUR 180 million and mainly to appropriations provided for under the precautionary reserves. First, it does not remove the fact that money is lacking for the education of our children. Secondly, the precautionary reserves are not intended to mask the austere choices of the Government. In principle, they are used to overcome budgetary uncertainties and not to cover cancellations of appropriations. We are well aware that it is impossible to cut staff costs and that cancellations of appropriations will be on investment and research. Mr Secretary of State, why did the Government choose to go through the regulatory procedure to carry out these cancellations of appropriations instead of submitting them to Parliament in the context of the review of the draft amending finance law? What were you afraid of? Any debate? Or the refusal of parliamentarians to vote for cancellations of appropriations for such an important mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u29	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u30	Madam Member, your question allows me to address the two main budgetary programmes devoted to research and higher education. This is first of all programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research". I would remind you that the appropriations provided for this programme by the original Finance Act for 2017 were insufficient to finance the French contribution to international organisations, with a sub-budgeting of 139 million euros, mainly covering two bodies: CERN, amounting to 53 million euros, and the ITER project, amounting to 43 million euros. Management efforts on other programme arrangements have resulted in the redeployment of funds to finance this contribution. In addition, under the 2018 Finance Act, we ensured that the appropriations were equivalent to the level of implementation in 2017, so as not to face the same difficulties. With regard to the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" programme, the 2017 execution was up €300 million compared to 2016, a total of €13 billion in 2017, after just over €12.6 billion in 2016. It must be made clear – you did so by asking your question – that the cancellation of $95 million by last summer's advance order was almost entirely about reserve appropriations, which means that no grant or allocation actually received was affected by this cancellation of appropriations. Again, the appropriations allocated by the Finance Act for 2018 are equivalent to the level of implementation 2017, so as not to experience the same inconvenience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u31	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u32	Finally, Secretary of State! Finally, we have the opportunity to debate in this Chamber the EUR 4 billion cancellations of unilaterally decided appropriations, by decree, in the summer of 2017, in disregard of the budgetary rules, as the Court of Auditors pointed out in its last report. Who doesn't remember this summer staging, in three stages? First time: a new executive and a new majority. Secondly, a report by the Court of Auditors, inevitably alarmist, on the budgetary situation in France, which calls for shock measures. Third time: billions of euros of unilaterally decided savings. In the same period, you sharply reduced the amount of personalized housing assistance – APL – by 5 euros for all beneficiaries. This decision has provoked strong reactions on the part of several members of the Government, and I give you a florileg. "If they continue like this, I'm going to get out of here! Jacques Mézard said. Julien Denormandie spoke of "bad decision," while the Prime Minister said that "planning measures are never smart." Finally, the President of the Republic described him as "unnamed bullshit". I stop that list of quotations, of which I share the spirit. The great Brazilian writer Paulo Coelho said that a constantly repeated mistake is no longer a mistake, it is a choice. Secretary of State, the decrease in the APLs decided in 2017 was almost unanimous against her, and was condemned until the highest summit of the executive. Will you draw the conclusions by restoring these 5 euros in 2018? Or will you confirm the 2017 mistake in 2018, which would turn it into a political choice?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u33	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u34	Mr President, you yourself know the answer to the question you are asking. We are in 2018, and the finance law for 2018 was passed, setting these allowances at the level you know, after a debate in which you participated. Your question about the level of LPAs allows me to first point out that the amount of expenditure carried out in 2017 was higher than the amount observed for 2016, despite the measure you mentioned. You started your question by referring to the advance decree on the cancellation of €4 billion in appropriations. This decree was issued after the Prime Minister had ordered an audit report from the Court of Auditors which pointed out the risks of a slippage of expenditure, which would have led to a public deficit of 3,2 or 3,3 % of GDP. To avoid this, commitments were made to spend, and the objectives were achieved: by the end of the year, this saving effort amounted to EUR 2.6 billion. It must also be borne in mind that in total, in 2017, 4.2 billion were cancelled in expenditure, but 7 billion were opened to finance new priorities: the balance of cancellations and openings is therefore positive. I would also point out that in terms of implementation, the resources available to the ministries during 2017 were up by $9 billion compared to 2016 implementation. I therefore do not believe that our economic policy can be reduced to a policy of austerity on the basis of a single decree in advance. On the other hand, I would like to say – I will certainly have the opportunity to repeat this tonight – that an effort of budgetary "sincerization" was made during the preparation of the initial finance law for 2018 and that the precautionary reserve has increased from 8% to 3%, with the objective that the planned appropriations are as close to reality as possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are in mid-June and, as you can see, no advance decree has been made and no advance decree is planned: this allows us to tell all those who manage state appropriations or who benefit from state appropriations that the budget implementation as we plan for the end of 2018 will take place without decrees in advance, and without the movement that we knew last July.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u35	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u36	Mr. Secretary of State, don't play with words! What I wanted to know is whether, during the debate that we will have in autumn 2018 on the initial finance law for 2019, you would confirm the reduction of 5 euros of the APL. That's how I had to understand my question, and you know it well. Let me turn to my second question. The Court of Auditors refers to a "unequally distributed budgetary effort" concerning cancellations. Some missions were particularly affected: the city's policy, amounting to 300 million euros, higher education and research, for 331 million, and the prison administration, for 77 million. It is on the evolution of the budget allocated to the State Secretariat for Gender Equality that we would like to ask you. Although equality between women and men has been established as a major national cause of the quinquennium, this State Secretariat has been confiscated more than 7 million from an initial budget of less than 30 million – an amount already very low in view of the Government's so-called ambitions. Almost 27% of its budget has been cut! We doubt that this decline can be achieved without affecting women's rights services and women's associations. Let me quote Marilyn Baldeck, Director-General of the European Association against Violence against Women at Work: "It was a 2.5% reduction in the military budget that led to the resignation of his Chief of Staff. At 27% down on an already ridiculous budget, should we keep quiet? » I ask for clarification, without a language of wood, on the consequences of these cancellations of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u38	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u39	Mr President, you have referred to the cancellation of appropriations, amounting to EUR 7.5 million, for the State Secretariat for Equality between Women and Men. It should be pointed out that just over half of the 7.5 million were also taken out of reserve appropriations, which are therefore not earmarked: these are therefore certainly unpleasant, but painless in terms of amounts of subsidies. All the ministries were involved in the EUR 4 billion effort that I mentioned in answering your previous question. It is clear that the abolition of 3.5 million on this State Secretariat may have had an impact on the level of support and subsidy. On the other hand, it must be stressed – I hope that this is the case in the coming months – that the State Secretariat for Equality between Women and Men also works in an inter-ministerial manner, in that each ministry, within its scope, develops actions in relation to equal pay and equal rights between women and men. To take just one example, that of the public service – a matter that I know best – we issued a joint circular a few weeks ago aimed at preventing all gender-based acts, statements and behaviours and acts of gender-based or sexual violence in all jurisdictions. This is reflected in the establishment of references and procedures, in the strengthening of disciplinary sanctions against those who commit such acts that are not acceptable in the public service or in general at work. This type of initiative does not have budgetary translation and does not require the mobilization of the financial resources specifically allocated to the State Secretariat for Gender Equality. That does not prevent it from being carried out, and we will continue to do so. In conclusion, what matters is the way we see the future. However, in the initial finance law for 2018, you could see that the means of this State Secretariat have been sanctified – they have even seen a slight increase – to meet the needs and challenges of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u40	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u41	Secretary of State, the first initial finance bill passed by our majority last fall highlighted the two key values of our action: fiscal sincerity and courage. The sincerity of the macroeconomic forecasts of the 2018 Finance Bill was praised by the High Council for Public Finance. In addition, in order to ensure compliance with the overall expenditure ceiling, the reserve rate was reduced to 3 per cent excluding staff costs, while the previous majority had applied an 8 per cent rate since 2015. The Government showed courage in the fall, announcing, despite the rebound of the economy, ambitious reduction targets: a reduction of five points of GDP for debt, three points for public expenditure, two points for deficit and one point for compulsory levies. Conversely, in its June 2017 report on the state and outlook for public finances, the Court of Auditors reported on the legacy of the initial 2017 finance law, highlighting overestimated revenue forecasts and clearly undervalued expenditure. The Court considered that without strong measures, France's deficit might not fall below the 3% set by the European Stability Pact. Our majority showed their budgetary courage as early as last summer, taking exceptional measures on government spending for the second half of 2017, while deploying budgets to cover residual funding needs. As such, cancellations were decided by the advance decree of 20 July 2017 on a number of budget items, in return for appropriations from other items. Can you tell us, Minister, what major arbitrations led to these cancellations of credit in the light of the necessary budgetary redeployments? What role have these cancellations played in maintaining the government deficit below the 3% mark, which finally allowed France to leave the European public deficit procedure which it had undergone since 2009?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u42	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u43	Mr President, you have referred to the state of public finances, in particular to the prism of the audit commissioned by the First on taking up his duties. A number of budget stalemates were then identified. This was, for example, a shortfall of EUR 500 million in the total wage bill or the necessary recapitalisation of Areva. In the agricultural sector, there was a lack of a budget of EUR 1 billion, in particular with regard to the clearance of a number of disputes relating to Community aid, which must be carried out without weighing on farmers, or the means necessary to deal with health or climate crises. Other funding problems related to the allowance for adults with disabilities and other social benefits. All this required readjustments. The audit had indicated that the deficit at the end of the year was likely to be 3.2 per cent of GDP, above the 3 per cent mark. The regulatory measures taken contributed to the reduction of the deficit by 0.2 to 0.3 points in order to meet the objective. On the other hand, growth has generated additional revenue. All this has enabled France to bring the government deficit below the 3% of GDP target. It is even 2.6% at the end of 2017. The strategy that prevailed, which guided the Government's choices, was to achieve that goal in order to keep France's word on the European scene. This is why all ministerial sectors have been involved through expenditure control measures. The elements you mentioned – reducing the reserve from 8% to 3% and establishing macroeconomic assumptions – are part of this very sound approach: they will enable the budget to be implemented without having to make decrees in advance, without having to resort to fiscal regulation measures. Of course, if France were to experience an unprecedented climate event, a particular crisis, we would give ourselves the means to react, but under the normal conditions of the fiscal year, we are implementing the original finance law without providing for any other adjustments than purely technical ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u44	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u45	Mr Secretary of State, the aided contracts, which make it possible to subsidise jobs, were characterised by a very high cost for largely inadequate results in the fight against unemployment: only 36% of the people who had left a single contract for the integration of the non-market sector were in employment, compared with 66% in the merchant sector. In this sector, these contracts have clearly produced a boon effect. As indicated by the studies carried out in 2017 by DARES, the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics, the OECD and the Court of Auditors, these grants enabled the associations and local authorities that benefited from them to rebalance their budgets, while their aim was to boost the employment of people with labour market difficulties. Thus, while €2.4 billion was spent on contracts supported in the initial finance law for 2017, the initial finance law for 2018 only spent 1.4 billion, a decrease of 41.6%. This is equivalent to a change from 280,000 aided contracts in 2017 to 200,000 aided contracts in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u46	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u47	It should be noted that 189,500 new contracts or renewals were scheduled for the first half of 2017, more than two thirds of the envelope. So we can talk about sub-budgeting which left the new government only the choice to increase budgets in order to finish the year correctly while refocusing contracts on the most priority sectors: for example, an additional EUR 250 million was granted for 13,000 negotiated contracts. The next task was to make choices to sufficiently value and budget all the devices that worked, and to reduce or refocus those that had already produced results on the original objective. Hence the massive investment in vocational training, a real challenge to bring people very far from employment back into the labour market. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm the path that led to these cancellations, as well as the types of employment policies that have been favoured in lieu of these credits? Finally, can you tell us that the credits that benefited from the aided contracts will be used well to improve our vocational training, especially for those furthest from employment, and thus to combat unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u48	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u49	First of all, a slowdown in the requirements of aided contracts was decided for the second half of 2017 but, in total, 289000 aided contracts will have been carried out that year, which is nevertheless an overrun compared to the forecast of the original finance law, which was 280000 contracts, the envelope being, on the other hand, in excess of 300 million euros. The slowing of the statute of limitations therefore did not result in a decrease from the original finance law. For 2018, as you said, 200,000 assisted contracts have been scheduled. The credits you have mentioned and the Government's strategy that you have recalled are indeed to better support community employment, which requires a tax credit to this sector, and also to develop a plan of investment in skills, with the conviction that the more people are trained, the more they are able to find a sustainable job and not a supported or accompanied job. Your question also allows me to highlight another aspect of the problem. The aided contracts have been in existence for almost forty years in our country. We all knew the different acronyms: the TUCs, the CPEs, the CIPs... In fact, an economic model has been allowed to develop which has helped to make it solvent for employers who were not always solvent, and often with the intention, laudable, to improve the service rendered or to reduce the rest to be paid for the user or for his family. The decisions made then must lead us to question the cost-sharing between the taxpayer and the user because behind this economic model, it is this sharing that is at stake today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u50	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u51	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the budget for 2017, more specifically the draft budget regulation and approval bill that we will have to debate on Wednesday in the Chamber, is an exercise for which we share responsibility with the previous majority. During the discussions of the last draft of the amending finance law, the Ministry undertook to confirm the process of sensurging our accounts started in the summer, following the impasse of an unprecedented magnitude revealed by the audit of the Court of Auditors, to make various budgetary adjustments necessary for the implementation of the Government's priorities and to no longer resort to a decree in advance at the end of the year. It seems necessary to make sense in every euro spent, since it comes from the French tax, and to defend a budget that is legible throughout the year. I will illustrate my point by taking the example of the 219 "Sport" programme, which has a small budget for an ambitious but important one, particularly in view of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. In the initial finance law for 2017, a sum of EUR 267 million in payment appropriations had been retained. But this envelope has been the victim of several developments throughout 2017: in January, initial freeze EUR 19.2 million; in February, thawed by 3.7 million; April, freeze of 10.2 million; in July, thawing for cancellation of 16.7 million; at the end of the year, cancellation of the balance of the frozen appropriations. The budget has melted to a total of 9%, or EUR 28.9 million, all relating to the cancellation of frozen appropriations. We all agree that the steering of a budget under these conditions is impossible. Parliament votes a budget, the ministries pilot it and face the fear of being a variable of budgetary adjustment at all times. We must, as far as possible, put an end to this in order to make our budgetary commitments efficient. I will therefore have two questions: how can the ministries really manage the budget which the National Assembly has granted them without fear of major cancellations? Do you commit yourself to simmering the budget of the "Sport" programme to enable it to deal with the many challenges ahead?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u52	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u53	Madam Member, with regard to the issue of "sincerization", the elements of my earlier response must be such as to reassure you, whether it is a reduction in the precautionary reserve or the department's willingness to adopt the best possible assumptions in order to avoid the advance orders that we have known. As for the 219 programme, it was increased in 2018 compared to the previous year by EUR 37 million in commitment authorisations and by EUR 35 million in payment appropriations. On a constant basis, it has benefited from an upgrade of the social compensation arrangements with ACOSS – Agence centrale des organismes de sécurité sociale – from the exemptions from social charges on the remuneration of referees and sports judges, as well as from a strengthening of its resources with a view to the rise of the French Agency for the fight against doping. In addition, as part of the clarification of the tasks between the State and the National Centre for the Development of Sport, the programme has benefited from a movement of transfers from the operator, thus strengthening its role of supporting sport for all, amounting to EUR 72 million, in both commitment authorisations and payment appropriations. Among the arrangements transferred to the program are allocations to national organizations such as the CNOSF (French National Olympic and Sports Committee) and the CPSF (French Paralympic and Sports Committee) and grants for the organization of major international sporting events. The budgetary programming for the 219 programme thus focuses State action in the field of sport on the wearing of national and international sports policies. The issue of state funding for the Sport programme cannot be dissociated, as you pointed out, from that of preparing for the 2024 Olympic Games. To this end, the 2018 Finance Act created a new programme, No. 350, "Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024", which brings together government funding for the preparation of the competition, i.e. a total of 1 billion by 2024. For the year 2018, this programme was endowed with 58 million euros in commitment authorisations and 48 million in payment appropriations, in order to finance in particular studies prior to the first operations. For the years 2019 and 2020, the amounts entered in the trajectory of the programming law amount to 80 million and then 120 million euros. In this way, we are taking into account the demands placed on us as the organizer of the Olympic Games. Above all, by this refocusing, by redefining the boundaries of each of the programmes concerned and by the effort of sencenisation that I have mentioned, we are making sure that the Ministry of Sport can calmly and legibly manage the appropriations allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u54	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u55	Mr Secretary of State, in reading the report on the state budget appropriations opened by pre-decree and listening to the speech of the President of the Court of Auditors here this afternoon, it is understood that a large part of the appropriations thus allocated in 2017 are due to sub-budgeting and not to marked emergencies such as the opening of emergency accommodation or health crises. This raises the question of sincerity and rigour in budgeting. I will take the example of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs", which I believe is characteristic of this sub-budgeting. Partly predictable crises and under-valuation of financial needs have forced a great deal of funding to meet the actual expenses of this mission and thus our responsibilities. In return, agriculture-related sectors, such as ecology, are mainly affected by closures. Inadequacies in the initial preparation of the budget thus lead to the need for appropriations in the course of the year and the closure of others on missions for which they have yet to be voted, calling into question the value of parliamentary work. This leads to opposing public policies and responding to short-term emergencies, instead of long-term proactive programming. This also demonstrates the importance of reviewing the bases of budget programming, particularly for missions such as agriculture: it is not sustainable both to allocate funds to deal with crises and to open budget lines because of the under-assessment of the financial needs inherent in such missions. So, Mr. Secretary of State, how do you intend to avoid these sub-budgetings and to boost our budget, especially with regard to the Agriculture mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u56	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u57	As far as this mission is concerned, 2017 was marked by major events, for many unpredictable ones, which had an impact on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. The financing of the consequences of the health crises – avian influenza, bluetongue or ovine tuberculosis – as well as of the milk crisis cost in total, as compensations, €262 million in commitment authorisations and €300 million in payment appropriations, opened by decrees in advance and validated in the law of amending finance. It was also necessary to take into account, on the one hand, the refusal of Community clearance notified by the European Commission during the year, which led to the appropriation of additional appropriations amounting to EUR 721.1 million at the end of the year, and, on the other hand, the financing of the budgetary consequences of the delays in the payment of the 2016 CAP years. The natural disability compensatory allowance was paid in 2017 using the budgetary appropriations allocated in 2016 amounting to EUR 256 million, which had been carried forward in 2017. All these elements made mission management particularly difficult in 2017. Overall, the net opening was EUR 827.9 million in commitment authorisations and more than 1 billion in payment appropriations. This proved necessary at the end of the year to meet the needs. These appropriations, assumed and managed by cancellations of other expenditure, are also a sign of strong support from the Government for the agricultural sector. For example, in order to support farmers, several schemes have been implemented. I am thinking, among other things, of the €180 million plan to compensate farmers for income losses caused by health crises, with the Ministry also financing expenditure directly related to their management for an amount of €100 million. It should be recalled that a crisis plan, launched in 2016 for the dairy sector, was completed in 2017. These uncertainties are numerous and well known, and in order to strengthen budgetary sincerity and ensure its responsiveness, the Government has, inter alia, put in place two measures to avoid such shocks for this mission in the future. The first is the creation of a provision for risks under the 2018 Finance Act, amounting to EUR 300 million, thus financing a possible increase in expenditure in the event of deterioration of the economic or health situation as well as refusal of Community clearance. In addition to this prudent budgeting, there is a system to increase the number of staff responsible for investigating CAP files and ensuring payments so as not to be burdened with allowances and late payment costs as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u58	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u59	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last Wednesday, we passed the bill here by a large majority for a new railway pact. This reform was essential in order to renovate our railway system in order to guarantee better service to the French, but also to strengthen the SNCF by taking on unprecedented investments. We said it, we did it: one more check therefore, and we can only congratulate ourselves on it. The Government would foresee the resumption of approximately 35 of the 47 billion euros of the railway operator's debt, and would invest in the renovation of the lines, in accordance with the speech of the President of the Republic held on 1 July 2017 at Rennes railway station. However, in the face of this unprecedented new impetus, we have to face a slight recurring trend in public finances to cancel or postpone appropriations for the renovation of railway infrastructure, which are nevertheless enshrined in the various financial laws, and, I would like to point out, both during the old and the new legislature, as my two fellow Special Rapporteurs of the Transport Infrastructure and Services programme have pointed out. Indeed, at the mid-term of the 2015-2020 state-region plan contracts, only 28% of the commitment level had been achieved and 9% of the payment appropriations consumed. The risks that this could entail have been identified by the Court of Auditors but also by the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities. As the Minister responsible for transport Élisabeth Borne mentioned to our Finance Committee on 4 June, we see a gap between the moment when the competition funds are attached to the state budget and when they can be disbursed to participate in the operations they are intended to finance. As a result, there has been a worrying increase in undisbursed amounts at the end of the financial year in recent years. Renovation works promised but not carried out undermine the strength of the word of the State. So, Mr Secretary of State, can you assure us of the close cooperation between the Ministry of Action and the Ministry of Public Accounts and the Ministry of Transport in order to overcome these payment gaps? What is the status of your reflections on the concomitance of the future trajectory of the next law on infrastructure programming with that of public finances? I stress that to ensure the sustainability of our network, we must go through massive renovation investments while being aware that the cost imposes choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u60	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u61	Mr President, the question you are asking makes it possible to highlight one of the causes of a French evil. For thirty years now, we have collectively programmed, generation after generation, infrastructure and equipment operations that all have their raison d'être and which all meet needs expressed by the people, by the elected representatives and by the territories whose services they are supposed to improve. But the reality is that for thirty years we have been programming operations, engaging the state on their implementation, without having half the funding needed to do so. You are referring to the fact that on the infrastructure programme, year after year, there are carry-overs of appropriations, if not cancellations of programmes. It should be noted that between 2017 and 2018, the total amount of carry-overs of appropriations for work was lower than in previous years, which is an encouraging sign. In addition, the cancellations of appropriations that you referred to in this programme 203 "Transport infrastructure and services" concerned only the appropriations put in reserve, i.e. they did not have an impact on the operations actually carried out during 2017, which is rather reassuring in terms of the effectiveness of the achievements. The minister responsible for transport, Élisabeth Borne, will soon have the opportunity to present to Parliament the draft law on mobility: this will be an opportunity for her to take stock of all the work planned, based on the various studies and reports published notably by the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. This will include identifying those of them that are immediately feasible. Then we will have to make choices. I can assure you that those relating to the "financial" or non-financial nature of the projects or to the priority to be given to one or the other will obviously be made by the Ministry of Transport according to their opportunity. In any event, the cooperation between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts is complete in order to ensure both that these choices are in line with the programming law and that they respect the budgetary trajectories that we have set, so that, in the coming years, the bad news of cancellations or carryovers of appropriations is as few as possible and even disappears from our budget execution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u62	We're done with the questions of the Republic Group on the move. We can go back to Mr Éric Coquerel for the last question from the group La France insoumé.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Secretary of State, first of all, I am surprised that you are the only member of the Government to answer us on all matters. In any event, I would like to ask you about the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility", which everyone agrees is essential but is the victim of an overall under-implementation, which amounts to EUR 414 million in payment appropriations, a decrease of 3.4% compared to the EUR 12.3 billion voted by Parliament, and which amounts to EUR 1.34 billion in commitment authorisations, which corresponds to 10.3% of the appropriations allocated under the original finance law. Moreover, in terms of jobs, we are at 1000 full-time equivalents less than the initial forecast, a fall of 2.3%. Two decrees of 20 July 2017 aggravated the situation by cancelling, in management, a total of 434 million euros in payment appropriations. The minister told us that such a development did not undermine public service. I will try to show you that this is not true by taking the example of programme 113 "Landscapes, water and biodiversity", of which I am the Special Rapporteur. My report refers to programme 181, "Risk prevention: everyone will agree here on its importance, both in terms of climate change and industrial or nuclear risks. In the initial finance law for 2017, this programme had EUR 103.4 million in commitment authorisation. However, in implementation, only 29.8 million were made available, i.e. one third of the original appropriations. As for payment appropriations, less than a quarter of the appropriations initially planned were mobilised, or 20.8 million out of the 88.2 million planned. This situation is absolutely serious for public operators. For example, the French Biodiversity Agency has reduced its subsidy for public service charges to €27.3 million in execution, compared with €34.5 million voted. Météo France has also suffered budget cuts of 8.35 million, a 4.3% decrease compared to the original finance law, while we know that this operator is in an absolutely catastrophic situation, including job losses estimated at 100 full-time equivalents in the coming years. The IGN grant – the National Institute for Geographic and Forest Information – has also been reduced in execution, while this institution is at the heart of the production of sovereign geographical data. The same applies to CEREMA – Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, Environment, Mobility and Planning. One wonders whether this public operator, which is essential for ecological planning, will not disappear in the years to come, as budget implementation continues to weaken. This is also the case for INERIS – Institut national de l'environnement industrielle et des risques: in July 2017, cut by 2.5% of the appropriations voted, not to mention a levy on its working capital. I would remind you that INERIS manages industrial risks: the least we can say is that when we suddenly need them, for example when a chemical plant encounters a problem, we do not regret the investments we made there for long! Mr Secretary of State, I would like to get answers from you on all these cuts that affect the budget of a ministry which, unfortunately, is treated as an adjustment variable when it should be considered as essential, and therefore preserved from any decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u64	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u65	Mr President, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, which you mentioned, did not contribute more than the others to the effort to regulate the budget during the year. You have mentioned a great many subjects, some of which are very technical, and I have taken note of them. With regard to the answers that I will not be able to give you tonight, the Government will provide them to you as part of a later exchange. I must point out that the decrease in the ministry's jobs you mentioned was in line with the original Finance Act for 2017. No aggravating measures were taken by order-in-council or by regulation. With regard to the advance decree, the appropriations cancelled were mainly appropriations put in reserve, or related to discretionary expenditure measures. This has enabled us to meet the objectives of our fiscal trajectory. I also have two more informations. First, the Agence française pour la biodiversité, which you mentioned, was the subject not of an advance decree but of a cash levy, on the occasion of the law of amending finances. Indeed, its cash flow had improved singularly as a result of a much slower-than-expected rise in power: in 2017, the level of commitment recorded was much lower than the level originally envisaged. We have, therefore, ensured that these various elements are maintained so that the department's priorities are preserved. I come to the point of form that you have raised, honourable Member, regretting that I am the only member of the Government to answer: I am sorry, but you will have to satisfy yourself for tonight. The members of the Government, that is the very purpose of the exercise, do not know in advance the questions of the deputies, so I discovered yours at the time you spoke. Given the diversity of topics that you have chosen to address, it would have been necessary, in order to answer precisely, for all members of the Government to be present. Your question would therefore have had its place in a meeting either of oral questions without debate or of questions to the Government on Tuesday or Wednesday at 3 p.m., so that you could have mobilized the entire Government. But I do not believe that this is the spirit of the scrutinising questions of budgetary implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u66	So what's the point?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u67	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u68	Mr Secretary of State, the cancellations of appropriations for 2017, and in particular those of last July, follow on from the audit of public finances conducted by the Court of Auditors in June. This audit has highlighted significant under-budgeting, of the order of €4 billion. More serious, these were mostly not due to variances under management, but to the initial inclusion of insufficient appropriations as early as the 2017 Finance Bill, particularly with regard to assisted jobs. If the action of the Government has, since July 2017, ensured that the budget is implemented in accordance with the needs of the ministries, what actions are and will be, Mr. Secretary of State, carried out by your Ministry to render our public accounts more sincere?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u69	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u70	Madam Member, you are asking the question, in the end, of the sincerity of the budget, which allows for a more flexible budget implementation. As you have noted, a number of cancellations of appropriations have made it possible to finance expenditure which is not necessarily so, particularly in the social field, to the tune of 2.4 billion. The main quota, i.e. 840 million, was allocated to the employment premium. As I have already said, it was also necessary to finance the Ministry of Agriculture's expenditure of EUR 1 billion, as well as expenditure on external operations and internal missions of the Ministry of Armed Forces for 950 million and staff expenditure of some ministries for 516 million. The cancellations were an exceptional means of emergency to respond to a situation inherited from the construction of the Finance Act for 2017. The Government has learned from this, and this is the main lesson of this first fiscal year. The finance law for 2018 has thus been an opportunity to upgrade the relevant allocations, which I have just mentioned, with a view to strengthening budgetary sincerity. As such, the external operations and internal missions of the Ministry of Armed Forces have been upgraded by €200 million. The Ministry of Agriculture has a risk reserve of 300 million. The staff costs of the Ministry of National Education have been upgraded. Finally, the allocation for accidental and unpredictable expenses was increased by $120 million. This sincere effort makes management in the course of the year more fluid for managers and more respectful of parliamentary authority. The availability of appropriations for departments was significantly increased as a result of the decrease in the precautionary reserve from 8% to 3%. Contrary to what has been done in recent years, the Government has not yet submitted any advance or cancellation decrees aimed at changing the allocation of funds initially voted, and there is no indication that such a need will have been expressed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u71	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u72	Mr Secretary of State, while 280,000 aided contracts had been programmed under the Finance Act for 2017, the appropriations, which proved insufficient, had been consumed by two thirds by the end of the first half of the year. In the budget voted by the previous majority, which the Court of Auditors considered to be insinuating, the jobs assisted were therefore under-budgeted. In July, therefore, appropriations had to be redeployed, and cancellations of appropriations made it possible to finance nearly 40,000 new contracts. For 2018, nearly 200,000 assisted contracts were announced, with a focus on the sectors where the target audiences most need them: the health and social emergency, overseas, the support of disabled children in school and the integration of young people and the long-term unemployed. In particular, aided contracts are essential to many structures, including some associations, which have already suffered last year when the budget was cut off in the autumn. Indeed, despite their limitations, assisted contracts are a useful tool in the short term to combat unemployment and enable integration. They allow many associations and public services to survive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u74	These structures, already weakened by last year's announcements, cannot afford to relive such a situation and to see their staff again affected by a decrease in the number of contracts assisted. Mr Secretary of State, can you assure us that the initial budgeting of these sectors essential to the social and territorial cohesion of our country is perfectly sincere?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u75	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u76	Madam Member, in the context of a return to growth and a more dynamic job creation, the Government's objective is to increase the effectiveness of employment integration schemes, such as assisted contracts, by targeting them to the farthest segments of the labour market, in line with the needs of the territories. It was thus decided, as you recalled, to refocus the aided contracts towards the non-market sector and to transform them into a job path skills combining work experience, support and training, in the idea that they are less numerous but more effective in terms of return to employment. After worrying budgetary slippages in recent years – including 900 million in 2016 – the Government has committed itself to ensuring budgetary sincerity on this mechanism. In 2017, it managed to contain the overexpenditure to 300 million euros, thanks to the reduction in the prescription in the second half of the year, which I recalled in response to a previous question. For 2018, 200000 job paths skills in the non-market sector are registered in the finance law, with an average take-over rate of 50% of the SMIC. If some audiences benefit from a higher take-over rate, particularly overseas, with 60%, the prescribed volumes will be adapted if necessary to the decrease, in order to meet the budget envelope. Annual programming also took place this year in strict compliance with the budgetary precautionary principle, taking into account a management reserve of only 3.5% for this programme. In January, for example, about 160,000 career paths have been notified to the prescribers: they must be added another 30500 courses opened from the next school year within the national education system in order to accompany children with disabilities. The 2018 management of assisted contracts has also introduced the possibility for regional business, competition, consumption, labour and employment directorates to redeploy up to 20% of the appropriations budgeted for employment courses skills in favour of additional posts in integration structures through economic activity, according to local needs. This faculty makes historical comparisons in terms of the volume of prescription of aided contracts less relevant. The effort to integrate employment as well as to strengthen support for the farthest from employment is now being consolidated within the new Employment Inclusion Fund. Thus, not only will the appropriations entered under the 2018 Finance Act be respected, which you call your wishes, Madam Member, but they will allow a more effective approach, we hope, to the problems of employment integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u77	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u78	Mr Secretary of State, I come back to one of the most commented movements of appropriations for the 2017 budget year: the cancellation last July of €850 million in appropriations from the Ministry of Armed Forces. In a context of significant deployment of our military forces, either in the context of external operations or in our territory as part of Operation Sentinel in order to combat terrorism, can you tell us what the expected impact of this decision is, particularly in terms of force equipment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u79	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u80	Mr President, the cancellation of EUR 850 million of the appropriations entered in programme 146 "Equipment of Forces" of the Defence Mission was carried out, as I said a few moments ago, as part of the contribution of the Ministry of Armed Forces to interministerial solidarity in the context of the fulfilment of the objective set by the President of the Republic, which was to respect our European budgetary commitments. This cancellation of the precaution reserve appropriations led to the reduction of payments by EUR 500 million in 2017 and by EUR 350 million in 2018. This distribution was carried out with the aim of minimizing the immediate consequences on arms operations. By way of illustration, the reduction in payments in the 2017 financial year was partly, i.e. $230 million, on payments to the cash flow of the joint arms cooperation body and the NATO Helicopter Management Agency, which had no impact on the technical progress of the programmes concerned. These discrepancies did not weigh on the conduct of operational commitments and the cancellation was accompanied by a freeze of €1.2 billion on the remaining defence mission appropriations on 20 July in order to give greater visibility to the management of the Ministry of Armed Forces. In addition, the 146 program was further thawed, at the end of the management, to the tune of 700 million, and the programming work included in the 2018 Finance Bill and the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025 allowed for the reprogramming of deferred operations, in order to avoid any adverse consequences on the level of equipment of our armed forces and to enable them to ensure the fullness of their missions in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u81	We come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr. de Courson, you asked me to ask your two questions after that. I'll give it to you. If another group made the same request, I would of course accede to it in the same way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u82	[[Laughs]] Madam President, thank you for your immense kindness to me. Mr Secretary of State, as indicated in the middle of the afternoon by the First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Didier Migaud, in his speech on the state budget in 2017, the slippage recorded for 2017 amounted to 6.4 billion euros – the high of the range retained by the Court of Auditors at the beginning of the legislature – of which 4.4 billion for expenditure sub-budgeting alone. To cover these gaps, a vast operation of "reprogramming" – pudic word! – appropriations were decided by the Government when it came to business. There were massive cancellations and redeployments. These cancellations amounted to €4.2 billion: these are the most important since the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws. These cancellations of appropriations require the drafting of decrees in advance, on which the Council of State issues an opinion, which unfortunately is not automatically communicated to Parliament – it can be so if the Government so decides. Therefore, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the measures the Government intends to take to limit in the future these obvious cases of underbudgeting – some of which date back to years, including when Mr.Eric Woerth was Minister of Budget, particularly with regard to OPEX, the external operations of the army.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u83	Of which we had raised the level of credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u84	So they existed, but they were less important than today. It is therefore necessary to limit them, as well as the accounting operations resulting from them in the course of the budget year, and to strengthen Parliament's means of control. The IDU group, Action and Independents, will push in this direction. As part of the reform of the institutions, we will propose two amendments. The first is to systematically transmit to Parliament the opinions of the Council of State on advance decrees and, more broadly, on all bills. Would you be in favour of it? The second is to extend the powers of the High Council for Public Finance, so that it can evaluate the appropriations. At present, the High Council has jurisdiction over the assessment, first, of economic assumptions, hence of revenues, and second, of the balance, but not on the assessment of the level of appropriations. He cannot say, for example, that 600 million is missing for OPEX. Similarly, our MODEM colleague raised the issue of aided contracts earlier: in the last budget, their appropriations were clearly undervalued, to a considerable extent. The idea would therefore be for the High Council for Public Finance to give an opinion to Parliament, saying whether or not the appropriations are properly assessed – in view of the existing arrangements of course: it would not be a question of whether or not the policy is good. This would save successive governments bad surprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u85	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u86	Mr President, you have asked many questions. Some will find, if not their answer, at least a more in-depth discussion on the occasion of the constitutional review launched by the President of the Republic and also on the consideration of the bill of regulations, on which you have tabled a number of amendments. You stress the need to strengthen the powers and competences of the High Council for Public Finance. This may be an interesting lead, but it must be borne in mind that this body has a competence, recognised by all here, in the assessment of revenue assumptions and macroeconomics. In terms of expenditure evaluation and monitoring of implementation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u87	Appraisal of credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u88	Evaluation of expenditure and appropriations, of course. In this regard, the Government considers that the Assembly's services are at least as much, if not better, equipped to carry out this follow-up, particularly in the context of your monitoring and evaluation mission. Beyond the procedural questions and the powers of a particular body, I believe that most of the answers to your questions will be given in the debate on the constitutional review and, more specifically, in the debate on the means at the disposal of Parliament to ensure a better assessment of government work, both in budgetary and in other matters. I have no doubt that you will participate. You will have noted that this year, as part of the so-called Spring of Evaluation, each of the ministers came to Parliament's committees to report on the implementation of the budget and to answer, at times more precisely than I can do this evening, questions about the scope of each other. What I can assure you, too, is that the Government has the will to engage in a fiscal Sincerization exercise. As you pointed out, corrective measures were taken last July, amounting to EUR 4 billion, through an advance decree for EUR 3 billion, a cancellation decree for EUR 300 million and measures to slow down a number of expenditure. This was supplemented by the redeployment of residual needs, with a new advance decree amounting to 800 million in the autumn, mainly to cover payroll requirements. In total, 5.4 billion savings were achieved, at 0.2 percentage points of GDP, which enabled us to reach our target of falling below the 3% deficit threshold. What was done during the preparation of the 2018 Finance Bill, with the 8-3% reduction in the reserve, the upgrading of a number of endowments and the re-budgeting of expenditures that covered taxes allocated to a particular organization, gives us access to this budgetary sincerity that you call for. What we want is to be able to conduct this year 2018 without resorting to decrees in advance or decrees of cancellation, except on purely technical aspects. The best way to respect Parliament is still to avoid having to take such regulatory measures in the course of budgetary implementation, the aim of which is to ensure regulation in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u89	We turn to the questions of the New Left Group. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u90	Secretary of State, I too would like to ask you about the aided contracts. The rupture in August 2017 is unprecedented. Even under Nicolas Sarkozy's governments, there were on average between 387,000 and 474,000 assisted job creations per year. But we fell from an average of 460,000 creations to 300,000 in 2017 and, in 2018, it was the collapse. I would like to ask you two very specific questions, to which I would be grateful if you would give me a precise answer. First, what have become of those whose aided contracts have expired? All those I know are now at Pôle Emploi. I would like to know whether the Government has had the curiosity to examine this. If I ask you the question, it is that on the website of the Ministry of Labour has been published a very interesting study on the effectiveness of assisted jobs. It reads as follows: "The results show that, in the market sector, integration into employment was better at the end of an assisted contract than when the unemployed did not benefit from an assisted contract". I invite the Minister of Labour to read this study. Secondly, with regard to the CECs – job skills pathways – which replace assisted contracts: in my department, the prefect does not manage to place them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u91	Let him go check on mine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u92	To date, only 9% of the allocation has been allocated. So I would like you to tell us what percentage of the national envelope has been allocated so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u93	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u94	Mrs Rabault, you asked two very specific questions. I will be able to answer one of them, but it will be less easy for the second. In fact, I do not have the percentage of commitment of the CECs at the moment, but I am convinced that Mrs Pénicaud will make a point of honour to give an answer to this question – in any case, I will pass it on to her. With regard to the future of former beneficiaries of assisted contracts, whose contract has expired, this question, honourable Member, could have been put to you every year. You know like me, or even better than me, than in the last period, even if we were talking about two-year contracts, the aided contracts were actually limited to four times six months. The question you are asking may concern all beneficiaries. On the other hand, you were able to see that the unemployment figures had not increased after the decision had been taken; They even dropped.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u95	No: they increased in the first quarter of 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u96	With regard to aided contracts, I have already replied to Mrs El Haïry that there was a willingness on the part of the Government to be sincere, which explained the figure of 200000, and also that when the budget was implemented in 2017, the excess of the original finance law had been 300 million euros. The break that you are pointing out is that before – not for five or ten years, but for much longer – the initial finance laws were systematically under-budgeted and that year after year, it was necessary to systematically inject new appropriations. Before you joined us, I had replied to a Member who had asked a question about the aided contracts that this decision, which may have had brutal consequences, also raised the question of an economic model that we have allowed to settle in the country for thirty or forty years, a model that consists of making solvent employers who are not necessarily solvent. I am not saying that it was in itself a bad thing, since it was always a matter of rendering a service to the public or reducing the rest of the burden. On the other hand, this has exempted us from the debate on the assumption by the taxpayer or by the user of a particular service. With regard more generally to the effort to launch the budget, we are in mid-June and, at this stage, we have not taken any freezing measures, any freezing measures, or any advance decree. I think that beyond any assessment that can be made of the political choices that led to the 2018 finance law, in terms of budget implementation, everyone will agree that, for managers as well as for the beneficiaries of the appropriations entered in the budget, this is rather a guarantee of serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u97	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u98	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, two minutes is short, so I will focus exclusively on the advance decree of 20 July 2017 and its consequences for local authorities. The first National Conference of Territories met on Monday, July 17, 2017 in the Senate, in the presence of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. The objective was clear: it was "to build a pact of trust between local authorities and the State, on the basis of a flexible and intelligent organization". Many have believed it! Las, patatras, three days later, was issued a decree in advance by which the Government withdrew €216 million from the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities", logically causing the anger and incomprehension of the elected representatives present a few days before at the National Conference of Territories and which had not been prevented. To build the confidence pact, we can say that the foundations were badly engaged! That's for shape. As for the substance, the consequences for some territories have been dramatic. In this case, in departments that had committed little or no funds, the prefects had to raise the money and projects were abandoned or postponed. The commitment to investment support, which had been sold as a downward consideration for the overall operating endowment, was betrayed to some, but only to some, which was in addition an unfair treatment. You were at the time, Mr. Secretary of State, President of the Association des petits villes de France and you had relayed the anger of the elected officials at the question-and-question session to the Government on 2 August. You then rightly emphasized the feelings of abandonment and betrayal felt by the elected officials. As for the pretext used for this cut, namely the anticipation of less consumption, it is misleading, since it is known that in some departments projects could not be committed for lack of commitment authorizations or, worse, that payment requests could not be met at the end of the year for lack of payment appropriations, obliging certain communes to use cash lines. Also, my question is simple. You have stated, Mr. Secretary of State, that no investment credit from the "Relations with local authorities" and "Cohesion of territories" missions will be cancelled for 2018, neither in commitment authorities nor in payment appropriations. Do you confirm that? Do you also confirm that payment appropriations will be available at the end of the year? Finally, let me make a comment on the figures you mentioned in relation to investment in response to the first question by my colleague from the La France group. These are, of course, credits, but they were voted by the old majority, and the new one "sabrated them."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u100	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u101	First of all, Mrs Pires Beaune, let me congratulate you on the quality of your references. I have previously answered your second question, first of all to say that the method had been noticed. In front of the Congress of Mayors of France on 23 November, the President of the Republic stressed that, in accordance with the commitments made at the National Conference of Territories, this type of situation would no longer take place and that consultation would be necessary. In response to the second question, I also said, with regard to the 2017 budget implementation, that €863 million was committed for the provision of equipment for rural areas – DETR – and for the provision of support for local investment – DSIL – that is, €163 million more than in 2016, where these appropriations amounted to some €700 million – 696 million, to be precise. Today, the Government intends to make relations between the State and local and regional authorities fully visible. This is why, for the 2018 financial year, €48.1 billion of state aid to communities was voted, compared with €47.8 billion in 2017. This amount should be revised upwards, to the tune of around 100 million euros, in line with the decision taken with Gérald Darmanin not to apply the reduction of DCRTP – compensation for the reform of the professional tax – for public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation. We are part of a trusting and contractual relationship with 322 communities that alone account for just over 70% of public spending, so as to limit the increase in community spending to 1.2% – not reduce these spending! The objective is to maintain the budget path while maintaining the allocations. As for the investment, you have noted, like others, that the payment appropriations entered for 2018 are higher than those for 2017, despite a slight decrease in commitment authorities. I can assure you this evening that all the payment appropriations necessary to finance the operations selected will be available. I will conclude with a simple remark. You have referred, Madam Commissioner, to the different modalities, from department to department, of the commitment of appropriations under the DETR. We had discussed the subject, in a more private way, on the occasion of the decree in advance. In some departments, such as yours, the commitments made over the course of the year had in fact resulted in a rise in appropriations, and in other departments – one of which I know well – the appropriations committed at the beginning of the year had also helped to preserve a large part of the projects of the municipalities, none of which had to face a lack of payment appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u102	We come to a question from a non-attached Member. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u103	I will associate myself with my question, Mr Secretary of State, my colleague Jean-Felix Acquaviva, Member of Parliament for Corsica and Chairman of the massive committee on our island. Decree 2017-1183 of 20 July 2017 is disastrous for rural and mountain areas. In particular, it has cut the momentum of several intercommunal and territorial and rural poles of balance – PETR. In the regions governed by ordinary law, it is understandable that the State co-pilots the guidelines it sets out for the planning and development of the territories. In Corsica, two tangible elements are likely to reinforce the position of the territorial community vis-à-vis the rural contracts: the law and the competences that are its own, in particular through the planning and sustainable development plan of Corsica – PADDUC. Moreover, the establishment of the single community and the erasure of the departmental level are relevant elements that lead decision-makers to reorient the territorialisation of public policies in the priorities set out in each of the rural contracts signed or under preparation, not only by virtue of the guidelines contained in the PADDUC, but also of the financial capacity available. Thus, the community of Corsica affirms its role as a prescriber in terms of the planning and development of the territories, despite the weakness of the human or financial means, apart from the contracts of common law – contracts of plan or European funds – or those specific to Corsica – exceptional programme of investments or massive committee. I would like to know the intentions of the State to remedy the financial shortcomings caused by the decree of 20 July 2017, which puts in jeopardy, as you know, many rural contracts, in Corsica as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u104	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u105	You have returned, Mr President, to rural contracts, particularly in Corsica. This question session is devoted to the implementation of the 2017 budget. In this respect, I can assure you that the execution of rural contracts will be guaranteed this year as in subsequent years. The advance decree you mentioned has no more consequences for Corsica than for the other territories of the Republic. It carries out regulatory measures which apply uniformly. The situation of the Corsican community may be unique; But this particularity does not concern the budgetary implementation of 2017. The first reason is that this community was formally created a little later, and that it was born, if we can say so, of the merger of two departments and the regional community of Corsica. For having visited Corsica a few weeks ago and having met with the President of the Executive Council – including on the financial situation and on the demands made by a number of Corsican elected representatives in the field of taxation, and even on the territorialisation of taxation – I understand that part of the difficulties encountered by the new single community of Corsica are also due to the fact that it has to take on the decisions taken previously, in particular by the three authorities from which it emerged, starting with the two departments: I am thinking, for example, of reductions in local taxation for the part corresponding to the former department of Corsica of the South; the upward revision of the compensation schemes for staff, in particular SIDS – departmental fire and rescue services – in each of the two departments; to a cash flow which, between the moment when the unique community of Corsica was decided and that where it was born, was singularly degraded – or, in any case, consumed. A number of budgetary decisions made by the communities that subsequently merged into the single community are now being presented as elements for which the single community must now ensure sustainability and funding. Our discussions also focused on how the state could better support the Corsican community as part of an investment plan. These discussions echo others of a constitutional or simply interdepartmental nature. The objective is to ensure equal and equitable treatment of Corsica in the Republic, and to ensure the financing of investments in compliance with the budgetary commitments of the French State. Under no circumstances will the State interfere in decisions relating to the management of previous communities, nor will it assume them in the place of those who took them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u106	We completed the questions on credit cancellations in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u107	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution by Mr President-in-Office of the Council. André Chassaigne, Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Fabien Roussel and others, aiming to put the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debates (No. 1032).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u108	In the general debate, Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u109	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, ladies and gentlemen, put the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debate: this is a great ambition, a noble and fundamental ambition; an ambition that must enliven all the Democrats, and all those who are committed to the expression of popular sovereignty, whatever the benches they occupy in this House. Fiscal policy is the basis of political choices made for the life of the country. It determines everyone's contribution to the nation's effort, through taxes, duties and taxes. It also determines the extent of the response of the public authorities to the needs expressed by the population. Finally, it determines the resources allocated to public policies. Fiscal policy thus represents one of the foundations of this social pact that unites the people. People's sovereignty must therefore be fully expressed in budgetary deliberation: this is a fundamental requirement to ensure that democracy is not a concept, but a reality that we must strive to ensure that we, the representatives of the people, live. We are, ladies and gentlemen, the voice carriers of the people. Representative democracy is thus achieved. Elected from the people, we in this House are responsible for expressing our needs and meeting our expectations, in the general interest. In democracy, public deliberation calls for the confrontation of ideas, the exchange of opinions and the effective capacity to decide, decide and make the law. In budgetary policy, these prerequisites, decisive in democracy, are now largely weakened, if not flouted. In fact, for several years, our budgetary discussions have often turned to technical, if not technocratic, debate, a thousand miles away from popular aspirations. The "technocratic" has taken over and, with it, the accounting logics have taken over. The focus is now on financial indicators. Self-proclaimed experts, enslaved accountants, command managers have taken power! Our discussions and choices are neutralized by numerical indicators supposed to be the incarnations of the common good and the living-together. But in fact, ladies and gentlemen, these are only gris designed not to disappoint these fragile, febrile beings, and which the slightest warning puts in terrible states: the markets. It's for you to break your heart! The European construction is undeniably part of this technocratic movement, of this confiscation of power by a handful of techno-experts imbued with the values inherent in the order of commerce, back to back with the expression of the sovereignty of the people. As evidenced by the 3% deficit criterion, these sacrosanct 3% deficits, whose bigotes now haunt both the places of power and the media scene. Aware of this grip, a newly elected President of the Republic had spoken of "budget fetishism" about the Germans' alleged commitment to the budgetary surplus: bold words, when we know that these 3% are the keystone of the political project of his own majority! If there is an area in which the process of European integration has been consolidated in recent years, it is indeed the budgetary area, with a real transfer of power to Europe in the key, in the absence of any real counterpart in terms of sovereignty. The national budgetary discussions are now integrated into a binding agenda, which de facto gives the European Commission and the Member States a right of scrutiny in this area within the framework of the European Council. That there can be supranational coordination of budgetary policies if we wish to move the European project forward does not seem illegitimate to me, on the contrary. On the other hand, the red line is crossed when this supranational control is exercised by institutions without democratic legitimacy, which advocate an orthodox fiscal agenda and retrograde reforms. Such a development tends to lead us towards a neutralisation of the budget, as was the case in monetary matters. Independent of political power but certainly not of financial power, the European Central Bank – ECB – makes monetary choices that are now beyond public deliberation. For example, it has unilaterally decided to inject hundreds of billions of euros into the economy for several months, with little regard for the representatives elected by the people. Preqed independence, so-called expertise, so-called neutrality... Do we want to apply to fiscal policy those principles that apply today to monetary policy? This question seems essential to me at a time when the development of European integration is under discussion. In any case, it is a fact: whether we favour it or not, the process of European integration has contributed to the dilution of the power of national parliamentarians in budgetary matters, powers already very limited by the 1958 Constitution, which had focused in particular on "rationalising" the powers of Parliament, which was held responsible for the drifts of a fourth Republic which would have made our country ungovernable. The result of the rebalancing of powers between the executive and the legislature is known to all: a Parliament confined to a secondary role in the face of a predominant executive power. This redefinition of roles is particularly prominent in the enactment of the budgetary standard. An article of the Constitution is the symbol of this, gratifying in the marble the impotence of the people and their representatives to participate actively in the definition of the budget, thus public policies. This is the famous Article 40 of the Constitution, which I must recall here: "The proposals and amendments made by Members of Parliament are not admissible when their adoption would result in either a reduction in public resources or the creation or a worsening of a public office. The consequences of this constitutional article are heavy: it is a lock imprisoning parliamentary expression, depriving the people and their representatives of the initiative of public spending. Thus, parliamentarians, as representatives of the people, cannot propose to allocate additional financial resources to the various budgets defined by the Government. Creating a burden for public finances is simply forbidden. As an example, and without a spirit of provocation – you know me – in view of the current situation, parliamentarians cannot create or upgrade social benefits. Nor can we propose to increase the point of index of public servants, nor can we draw up a plan to support the industrial sector, nor can we even organise the ecological transition. Of course, it is possible for us to change the allocation of programme appropriations for the same mission, but only on the condition that we do not increase the amount. In plain terms – and since I have long been interested in the agricultural budget – to dress Stéphane Travert, it is necessary to undress Travert Stéphane! You will reply to me that the people, by their representatives, may propose to reduce public revenues, for example income tax or VAT; However, this reduction must be reduced, i.e. it must be compensated for financially as a result of competition. In total, and not to mention other binding rules laid down by the Organic Law on Finance Laws, the LOLF, article 40 amounts to placing the executive in a quasi-monopoly position in budgetary matters. Government hegemony is needed, reducing the role of Parliament to the congruent portion in the enactment of the budget standard. To repeat a Latin sentence: "Rome has spoken, the cause is heard. Parliament is thus instigated, disresponsible, marginalized, unable to formulate real alternative proposals. His choices were sometimes even brutally challenged by the Government, when it resorted to second deliberations or blocked voting, as regulatory tricks flouted sovereign deliberation. We have seen this recently in the Senate about farm pensions. Thus, the financial laws follow each other, but Parliament's financial power remains limited, with no real effect on the major budgetary balances. Would this corset guarantee budgetary efficiency in the face of representatives of the supposedly expensive people? Would it guarantee the good financial health of our country? The evolution of public debt over the past several years, as well as the ever-increasing financialization of our economy, provide irrefutable answers to these two questions. The scheme even has perverse effects, such as the increase in tax credits and other tax expenditures, which undermines consent to tax by making it illegible, unfair and ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore time for the people to return to our budgetary work. The time has come to make this Parliament an adult Parliament. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution which, without prejudging the debate on the next constitutional reform, invites the Government to make proposals to strengthen the right of parliamentary initiative in budgetary matters. Many here are also sensitive to this concern: many are affected by an article published in a major evening newspaper entitled "Des MPs en guerre contre l'article 40 de la Constitution". Beyond the passing of the law, article 24 of the Constitution provides that the Parliament "supervises the action of the Government" and "assesses public policies". Parliamentary oversight is one of the pillars of the rule of law. It is a right that is exercised all the more effectively as it combines with an effective and tangible evaluation of public policies. In fact, the exercise of this control by the representatives of the people is not satisfactory because of the lack of human and technical means to enable Parliament to be truly autonomous. The legislative power depends on access to and the treatment of information available to the executive. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, how can the Government be assessed and monitored if it is the only one with the data to be evaluated and monitored? We consider it necessary to guarantee Parliament's independence in the exercise of its prerogatives: its independence from the executive as well as from any other form of power, including financial power. It is through the strengthening of its own powers, its internal expertise, including that of the services of the Finance Committee, that Parliament will be able to ensure that the Government's work is monitored and evaluated within a truly democratic framework. This House must not be the prey of external, supposedly independent officials who obey other logics than those of democracy, the common good and the sovereignty of the people. We do not believe in the benefits of outsourcing, as we have the opportunity to have internal competencies: those of our remarkable parliamentary public service, unquestionable skills that need to be strengthened. We must therefore be vigilant, ladies and gentlemen: let us be careful to initiate a constitutional reform which would, it is said, aim at making Parliament a real controller and an assessor, but which, in the end, would sacrifice its inability to make the financial laws and devoting its powerlessness to the omnipotence of the executive in budgetary matters. Mr. de Courson, can you turn around, please?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u110	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] But I'm listening with both my ears!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u111	[[Smile]] This is the pitfall before us. We must certainly evaluate and monitor, ladies and gentlemen; but we must also make the law – including the law of finance, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u112	Thank you for your permission, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u113	It's a matter of knowing how to be and how to live in this chamber! Finally, one point in our motion for a resolution relates specifically to the financial courts, in the first place the Court of Auditors. What a symbol of the rise of financial jurisdiction in our institutional order that the reception of its First President in the Chamber today – even if it is not new! Without calling into question the Court's technical powers, it must be noted, and regrettably, that the Court now acts as a mother of rigour and an apostle of the reduction of public expenditure. In the recent past, draped in his certainties as guardian of the liberal temple, he has sometimes advocated, at his choice, an increase in the working hours of civil servants, the freezing of the index point or the abolition of posts in the administration. At the same time, its silence is deafening with regard to the public money gabegy represented by the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the CICE.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u114	Who just created thousands of jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u115	Imposing measures on the one hand, giving lessons on the other, remaining completely blind to objective analyses: a "double standard" which is difficult to understand and acceptable, while the independence of the institution is supposed to guarantee its fair and balanced functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u116	It's all about the point of view...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, is the role of a Court of Auditors not lost when its work legitimises the orthodoxy of budgetary policies? In order to maintain the legitimacy and credibility of this financial jurisdiction, we could start by opening up more of its composition and thus allow a plurality of opinions to express themselves, a plurality of experiences to take its place. At the moment, the main responsibilities are carried out by people with a fairly similar journey, often with the right marks. We believe that by opening the institution and exercise of these responsibilities to other profiles, coming from other horizons, the work of the Court would be enriched, which would then usefully contribute to public debate and political deliberation. That's it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u118	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u119	I'm finishing! That, I said, is the ambition of this motion for a resolution, which I naturally invite you to vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u120	Of course...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] You see, "the one who moves the mountain is the one who begins to remove the little stones." This final sentence is from Confucius.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u122	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u123	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, your motion for a resolution to put the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debate encourages the Government to strengthen the right of parliamentary initiative in budgetary matters, to provide Parliament with financial resources so that it can have its own means of expertise, and finally to diversify the composition of the Court of Auditors. These proposals express a truth. You are right to say in the motion for a resolution that "budgetary policy is neither more nor less than the basis of political choices made for the life of the country". Your explanatory statement also sets out three points which we share in the Presidential majority, and in particular in the Finance Committee: it is necessary that the French and their aspirations be at the heart of the budgetary debates; Parliament does not have the human and technical means to carry out its monitoring and evaluation tasks independently from the Government; Parliament does not have the tools to encrypt the proposals it intends to defend. We therefore essentially agree with a part of your analysis but differ, as often, on the solutions to be implemented in order to achieve the desired result. As regards the strengthening of the right of parliamentary initiative in budgetary matters and Article 40, first of all, the "totem", as you call it, or rather the criterion of the 3% public deficit is not only binding on Parliament, but on all public authorities. Secondly, this limit on the government deficit is a golden rule for us to respect. Europe is at the heart of our projects and, thanks to the action of the President of the Republic, France has become a driving force in the reform of the European Union. But to achieve this, France must be credible and, to be credible, it must respect its commitments and its signature. To be exemplary, we must respect the rules that we have set ourselves under the treaties that we have signed with our European partners. In its June 2017 report on "The state and outlook for public finances", the Court of Auditors reported on the legacy of the initial 2017 finance law, stressing overestimated revenue forecasts and clearly undervalued expenditure. The Court considered that, without strong measures, France's deficit could be above the 3% set by the European Stability Pact. We should therefore collectively welcome the budgetary courage shown by our majority since its election, which will allow France to finally exit the European excessive deficit procedure that it has been undergoing since 2009. The context of the restoration of public finances that we are living in France, as in many of the countries of the world, imposes a real rigour for the efforts and results already seen to be transformed into sustainable dynamics. This rigour must apply to all public authorities, including Parliament itself. That is why, although we of course recognise the right of amendment granted to parliamentarians by Article 44 of the 1958 Constitution as a fundamental right, we also recognize the need for a safeguard against budgetary expenditure and therefore we do not question Article 40. As you know, the organic law of 1 August 2001 on financial times, the LOLF, has already reduced the severity of the restriction by allowing parliamentarians to make movements between the programmes of the same mission – you mentioned it, Mr Chassaigne – without increasing the total amount of its appropriations. As for the financial means to be given to Parliament so that it can have its own means of expertise, let me first give you my personal position. In my special report last autumn on the budget mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", which includes the audit of the Court of Auditors' budget, I stressed that it is up to the parliamentary assemblies to make better use of the expertise provided by the Court of Auditors' work, in the context of the assistance mission set up by Article 47-2 of the Constitution or by carrying out the investigations authorized by the LOLF. However, the support provided by the Court of Auditors does not preclude a reflection aimed at strengthening the expertise of the National Assembly and the Senate. In this regard, I advocated, for example, the creation of a parliamentary office common to both chambers, which would play a role similar to that of the National Audit Office and the Public Accounts Committee at the disposal of the House of Commons in the United Kingdom. With regard to the position of our group, as we explained in a forum published in Les Échos on 15 November, we are working to increase the parliamentary time devoted to evaluation, with the aim of controlling the Government's public policy choices. We consider the time spent in control too little compared to the time spent in law-making. As such, the draft constitutional law, which will be studied in July in the National Assembly, proposes to reduce the time for consideration of the finance bill in the autumn to fifty days...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u124	We must conclude, Mr. Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u125	... so that, at the same time, the monitoring of government action can be strengthened during the review of the settlement bill during the Spring Evaluation. I will conclude with a word on the work of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u126	You've exhausted your speaking time, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u127	We believe that we need to make better use of the work of the Court of Auditors and strengthen our relations in order to make the best use of this work, without the need to amend the law in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u128	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u129	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Chassaigne, your motion for a resolution raises three questions: that of the place of Article 40 of the Constitution in our budgetary debates; the monitoring of the Government's action; the evaluation of public policies. With regard to article 40, it was true that parliamentarians were sufficiently restrained in their initiative to reform or make proposals on the subject, since the Constitution prohibited them from increasing the burden of the State, even if they proposed, in parallel, an equivalent reduction in those charges. Suppose parliamentarians want to increase spending on national education and reduce spending on another ministry that I will not mention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u130	The atomic bomb!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u131	...the Constitution prohibits them from doing so. It is quickly realized that Parliament has very little authority in the drafting of financial laws. He was obliged to vote, in a somewhat restrictive manner, on the Government's proposals for public expenditure. However, there is still a need to find a balance, since Article 40 is a kind of shield that avoids spending in Parliament expenses that cannot be borne in relation to the revenue of the State. We must find a form of balance that leaves room for initiative for Parliament. Some amendments, for example, could be considered admissible if they had only a small impact on public expenditure. This would, in many cases, solve situations where our fellow Members have solutions that cannot even be discussed in the Chamber, because their amendment is considered inadmissible under Rule 40. So we could, together, define a threshold, so that the amendments which do not involve expenditure above this threshold could be considered. But in order to achieve this solution, we still need to be able to assess what the Government is proposing in the finance bills, as well as the amendments that we are tabling in committee or in committee. When I was rapporteur-general, I followed a very clear principle: an amendment that was not evaluated was an amendment that I had difficulty giving a favourable opinion on. The responsibility of everyone assumes that when making a proposal, especially in the financial law, one must be able to evaluate it. You were right to point out, Mr Chassaigne, that there is a striking inequality between the rapporteur-general who, thanks to the Organic Law on Finance Laws of 2001, passed under the Jospin government, has all the powers in Bercy – no tax secrecy is enforceable – and we parliamentarians, who are neither chairman of the Finance Committee nor rapporteur-general and have no facility to carry out evaluations. So, either we do these evaluations ourselves, in a small Excel file, or we have friends or acquaintances, who do economics or work in the ministries, who give us some tips, or we arrive in the Chamber a little lacking, with amendments that have not been evaluated. This can't go on! I would like to thank Mrs de Montchalin, the whip of the La République group in motion in the Committee on Finance, as well as MM. Barrot and Guerini, who requested the establishment of a parliamentary evaluation office. This office must be able to offer macroeconomic figures. Let us take the example of VAT at random. If we propose a measure to reduce it, we are able to apply a rule of three, to know about what will be lacking in the state funds. On the other hand, it is imperative to know the impact on the economy. In 2009, we had a debate on the reduction of VAT in catering. If we immediately saw the shortfall for state funds, it was not as obvious to know the economic impact. Was this going to create jobs? Economic activity? Was this going to strengthen the activity? These issues are essential. Similarly, when the Government announces its intention to abolish 120,000 civil servants, this will have a negative impact on economic growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u132	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u133	It is the famous MESANGE model – an econometric model for the simulation and general analysis of the economy – of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which is capable of carrying out this impact analysis on the macroeconomics. However, such data are currently not available to Parliament. The encryption unit we call for must meet at least two conditions: first, it must be able to be used by the opposition, which is the most deprived in terms of evaluation;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u134	That will of course be the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u135	It was mentioned, Madame de Montchalin! I'm happy to recognize him! ... then it must be able to base its analyses on macroeconomic models. In my view, only INSEE administrators are able to meet these two conditions. Some of them could be made available to our assembly, as Mr Barrot had proposed at the working group meeting on 19 April. Finally, your motion for a resolution, Mr President Chassaigne, raises the question of control. In the end, what's a control for? It can be used to make a diagnosis to determine if the measurements are working. If this is not the case, we all write a report together to see the malfunction. But what happens next? Our colleague Daniel Labaronne has just explained that, in the forthcoming constitutional reform, there will be progress on this subject. Yes and no! If Parliament's powers of control were to be strengthened, it would be necessary to go further and translate that will into action. In reviewing the Settlement Act, I will be led to discuss some of the shortcomings in the area of justice. Does that mean that things will change immediately? Today, we do not have a manual for monitoring to translate into an operational change in the law – and that is not included in the proposed reform. However, in the financial laws, the agenda is still in the hands of the Government. The parliamentary initiative on these issues is extremely tenuous. Let us take a concrete example: the 2005 Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities voted for the creation of a fund. The decree is still not signed. Of course, this is not the fault of this majority – I'm not accusing anyone. The associations referred the matter to the Council of State, which sentenced the State to a fine of 100 euros a day, which, even for a state in deficit, is not much. This decree is still not signed, although it is provided for in the 2005 Act. Under the previous legislature – I think that Joël Giraud will remember, since he was also part of the party – we tabled an amendment in the Finance Act which was rightly considered a horseman. In all logical terms, it should not have been discussed in the Chamber; But sometimes there are agreements with the chairman of the Finance Committee. This is an object of control, which must give rise to immediate action: a malfunction is found; But nothing happens, even though the State has been condemned by the Council of State. Monitoring will only be effective if it results in concrete action that forces the Government to act in accordance with the law passed and the decision of the Council of State. We can no longer continue to control without doing nothing afterwards. It is for all these reasons, Mr President Chassaigne, that we will vote for your motion for a resolution. (Applause from the benches of the NG and GDR groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u136	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u137	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chassaigne, it is with great interest that I have read your motion for a resolution and its explanatory memorandum. You are right to say that section 40 governs the ability of parliamentarians to participate in the development of the nation's budget. However, should we not impose any limits on our right of amendment in the field of public finances? We do not believe it; We believe that their balance is based on a principle of solidarity with future generations. Does that mean, however, that there is absolutely no need to touch on Article 40? We believe that it should not be touched, but should be reviewed and discussed. The interpretation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws is specific. Perhaps it could be opened up in the specific case of a rebalancing between expenditure and revenue? However, it seems to us to be entirely appropriate to maintain a principle of balance in public finances. This is the position of the Democratic Movement, which François Bayrou has been defending for a long time. Is it necessary, in the same gesture, to reject the principles of public finance management that we have given ourselves democratically at European level? This is not exactly the subject of the motion for a resolution, but it is set out in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u138	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u139	Here too, we do not believe that our credibility on the European stage is at stake. Perhaps we must go further, towards a more sovereign, united and democratic Europe, in which the budget would be centralized in the hands of a euro area finance minister, as proposed by the President of the Republic. Let us not forget that these imperatives that we have set ourselves preserve solidarity between the peoples of Europe. Should we believe that it is Article 40 that explains the proliferation of tax credits that you denounce? Unfortunately, it is feared that this will be done less by parliamentarians than by successive governments. It would no doubt be appropriate to go along the lines proposed this afternoon, during the discussion with the first President of the Court of Auditors: that of a more rigorous and detailed analysis of tax credits, in order to remove those which do not produce the expected effects. You are also right to say that the mission of article 24 of the Constitution is to monitor the action of the Government and to evaluate public policies. Is it just a question of financial means? Certainly not. This is also an institutional issue. The agenda of our Assembly must be able to make more room for evaluation and control activities, particularly in budgetary matters, when only one day is reserved for the settlement law. Thanks to the initiatives taken by the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee, the Spring of the Evaluation was held, during which all ministers reported to the special rapporteurs, the draftsmen for opinions and the national representation. These debates gave rise to the motions for resolutions that we are discussing today in open session. This is the first time in the history of the Fifth Republic! This represents a real step forward, intended to be institutionalized by Article 6 of the Constitutional Bill, which provides that ministers will be accountable to parliamentarians for their budgets. Article 9 of the same draft constitutional law provides that the assessment and monitoring weeks will be devoted not only to the monitoring of the Government's action, but also to the review of the outcome of monitoring and evaluation activities. There was a need to link evaluation and monitoring to legislative activity; This is now being done in the current wording of Article 9. Of course, this is not only an institutional question, but also a question of means: the trans-party working group that I chair, whose rapporteur is Jean-François Eliaou, shares with you and with many colleagues the idea that we need our own resources to carry out our assessment and monitoring mission. In an attempt to outline what a Parliament-specific budget office could be, we have conducted numerous hearings in this chamber, with our fellow senators and abroad. We found that, in order for a budgetary office to play its full role, it was essential to give it credibility. This should be based primarily on expertise, as you say in the explanatory memorandum to your motion for a resolution. The persons who would make up this encryption unit should be qualified to carry out the micro- and macro-simulation exercises referred to by Valérie Rabault, allowing to cross-examine the Government's budget figures and, if necessary, the parliamentary amendments. The second condition, of course, is independence, which, once Parliament has such an office, will be guaranteed by governance which will preserve the rights of the opposition and give any parliamentarian access to these analyses and expertise. Is there nothing left to do at the legislative level to allow the emergence of this parliamentary evaluation agency? I turn to you, ladies and gentlemen, because – we have conducted this reflection in the working group – there are at least two constitutional developments that we must collectively promote in order to make it possible. Firstly, this Office should benefit, by delegation, from the written and on-the-spot supervisory powers conferred on the Special Rapporteurs, and in particular the Rapporteur-General and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, without which this body will not have access to the very sensitive and pointy data which will enable it to develop precise analyses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u140	Very good remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u141	Secondly, the Finance Committee should have sufficient time to cross-examine the Government's figures, which implies that the finance bill should be tabled sufficiently in advance of its inclusion in the agenda. These two points are essential for a budgetary office to play its full role. I would add, while moving a little away from the budget office issue, that the National Assembly and our honourable senators have made a series of other proposals in the working groups launched by the Speaker of the National Assembly and the Speaker of the Senate. These proposals included the monitoring of implementing decrees – a point that Valérie Rabault mentioned in his speech – and of the Government's amendments, the idea being to make them conditional on an opinion of the Council of State or on impact studies as soon as they were reported by the rapporteur-general, the chairman of the Finance Committee or the President of the Assembly. There are some avenues that we could explore collectively. Finally, with regard to the third point, you are right to say that the Court of Auditors has become a key player in the public debate. Parliament has given him the monopoly of control, and the Spring of the Evaluation which is currently taking place is that parliamentarians are taking over their role as auditors and evaluators, whereas so far this role has been played by the judges of the Court of Auditors. The budget implementation notes it produces will feed into the thinking of parliamentarians, but will not be the only element. You are right to say that the Court of Auditors has a particular perspective on public finances; The debates that will take place during the public policy evaluation committees in the coming years will have to be irrigated not only by the work of the Court, but also by the work of the Parliamentary Evaluation Agency and external analyses. The essential thing is that Members remain the only masters on board, the only ones to take political decisions and to be able to weigh what, in the evaluations that come from the Court of Auditors or other institutions, using other methods or approaches, can help us to improve our public policies. The Court of Auditors has also become a key player in the public debate because its powers and procedures of investigation, contradiction and collegiality enable it to play its role as a fully impartial certifier of the State's accounts, and it is necessary to respect this internal functioning of this body, which allows it to strongly support the activities of our Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Despite all the interest in this motion for a resolution and the questions you raised in its explanatory memorandum, the MODEM Group will not vote on it because of these few reservations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u142	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u143	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Chassaigne, the motion for a resolution which we are debating this evening is not lacking in interest, since it allows us to address the question of the functioning of Parliament, and more specifically of this House, that of its debates and of the real impact that we can have on the budget texts. There are many points of interest to the UDI-Agir Group and independents, and if this innovative exercise does not allow us to address them all today, there is no doubt that we will be able to discuss them further in the course of constitutional reform. First of all, a little history: in Europe, we see that parliamentary assemblies were mainly born against the sovereign to grant tax, and it was the progress of this concession of tax approval that paved the way for parliamentary representation in 1789. Closer to us, the Organic Ordinance of 2 January 1959 greatly accentuated the pre-eminence of the executive and limited Parliament's financial initiative. But since then, Parliament's financial powers have been growing steadily. This is particularly the case with the Organic Law of 1 August 2001 on Finance Laws, the LOLF, replacing the Ordinance of 1959, which reaffirms the principles of budgetary law, amends the rules for the presentation, discussion and implementation of the budget, but above all increases the information and control powers of the Parliament by putting in place objectives and performance indicators. The text had been a major turning point for the strengthening of parliamentary power, forcing the Government to be more rigorous in its management. I understand, of course, the frustration of my colleagues who would like the ideology of representative democracy to apply with all its weight. However, it must be borne in mind that our regime is that of the Fifth Republic and that it is the executive, jointly appointed by the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage and the appointment of the Prime Minister from the majority to the National Assembly, who holds the keys to the country's financial orientation and priorities for five years. Parliament voted on the finance law, but too much emphasis was placed on its decision-making power, measured by its right to change the content of the drafts submitted to it, rather than on its control a priori as a posteriori. In this area, the LOLF has made real changes, which Parliament has so far not dealt with. This includes the possibility, at the time of the Settlement Act, that is, at this very moment, to assess the implementation of a project according to criteria different from those that presided over its preparation, in order to compel the Government to submit the best proposal, knowing that it will have to justify its assumptions and its choices. Moreover, beyond the decisions taken by the assemblies, the passage to Parliament produces benefits for itself: the information must be gathered, supplemented, accurate and sincere. It is subject to criticism in an adversarial debate before the eyes of all concerned: citizens, but also economic actors, financial markets, etc. This is intended to ensure that the data are objective, that choices are informed and that they can be explained rationally. We are in a logic of optimisation of the decision and not in the belief that such authority has the last word because it has all the knowledge. The great originality of the LOLF is not due to the fact that it extends Parliament's means of control, but to the fact that it reorganises them so as to create a real obligation to perform this function, which the Members themselves, since the entry into force of the LOLF in 2005, had neglected. So far, the control function, considered so important, was in reality diffuse, unorganized and, to say the least, abandoned – especially during the review of the settlement law. That is why our group supports the Committee on Finance's initiative to make it a key moment in the monitoring and evaluation of public policies, within the meaning of Article 24 of the Constitution. Of course, everything is perfect, but it is certainly a step forward that needs to be accompanied rather than slowed down. With regard to Article 40 of the Constitution and the limitation of the effective power of amendment on expenditure, we have reached a stage where it no longer seems appropriate to retain a mechanism which establishes a presumption of parliamentary irresponsibility vis-à-vis the balance of public finances. Traditionally, the power of financial initiative of Members of Parliament and Senators had been limited, and almost eliminated the power to propose expenditure, except within a mission, provided that it did not increase the overall appropriations. The question of the budgetary and financial prerogatives of parliamentarians is desirable and has been matured. This proposal also joins the discussions of the working group of the Committee on Finance on the development of the budgetary procedure, led by its president, Eric Woerth, and the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, who proposes the deletion of Article 40 of the Constitution. The UDI-Agir and independent group is perfectly reflected in this proposal to abolish Article 40 of the Constitution, which will be amended when the constitutional reform is examined. However, it seems essential to us to add to this openness a genuine increase in resources, providing Parliament with a unit or body with the information and skills necessary to fully inform the financial initiatives of parliamentarians. This is a sine qua non for us. In fact, the assemblies have little means to gather information and must address outside assistants. Everything will therefore be played out on the production of information and evaluations that will have to be real control opportunities. Parliament should use its increased investigative capacity to look for the causes of excess or deficiency and propose remedies, with its decision-making power over the programmes as a threat or sanction. It is a necessary counterpart for Parliament to be no longer blind and dependent on information from ministries-fortresses such as Bercy. I shall conclude my remarks with two points of reflection which we would like to raise. Firstly, to make it more difficult to carry forwards, transfers, transfers, cancellations or freezes of appropriations during the year, which can be presented as a means of improving the respect of Parliament's will; Secondly, to limit the possibility for the Government to table an amendment outside the deadline for submission or directly at the meeting, without impact assessment and without going through the Finance Committee. The only real limit of Parliament, in the various areas we have just mentioned, is itself, especially when the majority abandons its freedom of critical control over the Government's action. Therefore, the UDI-Agir and independent group will abstain from this motion for a resolution, which mentions interesting points, but sins by a lack of objective orthodoxy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u144	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u145	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the place of our fellow citizens in the budgetary debate in Parliament and the idea of putting them back at the heart of this exercise are both attractive and hopeful. They are also the occasion of a series of remarks that I will try to sweep this evening in this rostrum in order, I hope, to allow the French who would follow us to better understand the ins and outs of our work in this Chamber and the decisions that affect them – often in their daily lives, especially in their wallets. First of all, I would like to point out that we are overwhelmingly and unanimously in agreement with the direction of taking our fellow citizens better into account in the budgetary debate and in all matters relating to our country's finances, and I thank President Chassaigne for having tabled this motion for a resolution. How can we not do this when we are parliamentarians of one of the Western countries where per capita debt has exploded in recent decades until we reach levels that are legitimately frightening when we realize what they might mean? How can we not do this when we are parliamentarians of one of the nations where the rate of levies is among the highest in the world, with taxes, taxes and charges of all kinds, of which the French are reputed and which heavily puncture their incomes until they strangle their purchasing power and represent today a very detrimental obstacle to the freedom to undertake? How, finally, do we not do this when we are parliamentarians of a nation where this money that is being collected is supposed to fuel the motor of national solidarity, which, in many respects, we feel that it is being seized and that it does not always serve the causes to which it is intended, or at least not effectively enough? For all these reasons, we are, and I am personally, in favour of giving our fellow citizens the right place in the budget, or rather the budgets of our country, their great balances and the issues they raise. Having made these observations, I would like to raise two sets of questions which have come to mind by reading the motion for a resolution and by addressing this work, one on form and the other on substance. Let us begin, therefore, with the form, in order to elicit, I hope, some clarifications. It seems to me that if we are to put our fellow citizens at the heart of the budgetary debate, we must first restore democracy a little of its strength, and, in the particular case of the State's budgetary machinery, give the elected representatives of the people, parliamentarians, the means to carry out their decision-making and control tasks. I risk saying that this first stage is far from being achieved, if we consider only a few realities as manifest as they are demoralizing. The work on the budget here in the National Assembly is done in absolutely implausible formats and timetables, with committee meetings superimposed on piles of other meetings, concurrent meetings with the examination of other budgets in committee, reports produced in insufficient numbers to ensure that every parliamentarian has them in good time, mountains of numbers and impact assessments communicated only a few hours before meetings in which to vote, when it is not in session. The budget of France, so far, is divided between the finance bill and the Social Security financing bill and, for sitting here for four fiscal years, I can testify that unless I have the gift of ubiquity, no parliamentarian, however zealous, can physically be present on both budget lines, because nothing is done to make it possible. MPs must choose to address either one of the aspects of the Finance Bill or the Social Security Funding Bill. Strange way to associate the people! Finally, the decision-making process means that, most of the time, the major arbitrations governing the budget are announced at a ministerial press conference, even before Members of the Finance Committee have been able to start working on elements, which are provided to them only after. Finally, the fragmentation of the committees means that in order to acquire an overall view of the nation's budget, a parliamentarian must, forgive me, rise early. I am also participating in one of the working groups on the modernization of the Assembly's work, specifically the one on the issue of evaluation. As such, I am still hungry about the conclusions of our work on these fundamental aspects. I fully agree with the findings of this group that the tools of evaluation are not sufficient and that parliamentarians need to have objective data, reports and opinions as well as possible, in order to make the law better, to vote the budgets better and to better appreciate, above all, the impact of the decisions they make. On the other hand, I do not agree with the idea that this work could be entrusted to an external agency. It is the work of Parliament, especially of the National Assembly, to elaborate these elements, under the authority of the sovereign people, and in our capacity as elected representatives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u147	The staff of the National Assembly are fully competent to prepare these documents and carry out these evaluations. Subtracting this work, both preparatory and balance-sheet, in my view is totally contrary to the will expressed in the motion for a resolution that brings us together this evening, which aims to place the people at the heart of the budgetary debate. In addition, and in order to complete this first set of formal remarks, I believe that opening up to broad popular consultation, whatever the form, requires that the democratically appointed elected representatives to carry out these tasks be able to do so effectively. I now come to my remarks, which are just as numerous, on the substance, which preceded the current debate on the place to be given to our fellow citizens. First of all, this intention to place the people at the heart of the budget debate requires a form of political sincerity, which I believe is far from being achieved, even in the latest government announcements on the budget. What can be said, for example, of a state that removes a tax such as the housing tax, which is mainly used to feed local finances, without ever saying by what mechanism it will be replaced or how the needs that these local finances allow to be met will be met in the future? What about the same State, which is making Parliament decide to absorb EUR 35 billion of SNCF's debts, not to mention it, in order to allow this company to go through a difficult time, without ever announcing how these amounts will be covered by the national budget and by what date? What about a State which has not yet proposed to its national representation a thorough reflection based on elements of analysis of the budgetary consequences of Brexit on the European budget, therefore on our national budgets, even as the first effects of this earthquake are beginning to be felt, particularly on the common agricultural policy. Perhaps slightly, but it goes exactly the same way, what about a State that does not say that its main motivation to lower the speed limit to 80 kilometres per hour lies in the money that will be provided by the additional fines?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u148	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u149	The minister of the ecological and solidarity transition has dropped the track: 230 million additional euros per year will go into the caisses! If we want to give the French the floor on the budget, we must also ask them about this question, and I have no doubt about their answer in this regard. What about a state, still the same, that continues to let go of the oil taxes that millions of our compatriots use every day to travel, to get to work, to drive their children to school, perhaps for some, soon, to take a few holidays, until we are placed in the top rankings of countries in the world where fuel is the most expensive?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u150	What is the relationship with evaluation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u151	This issue is also at the heart of the people's concerns about our budget. And the people expect much not only explanations but above all ways of circumventing this difficulty, which becomes ubiquitous in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u152	You are bypassing the purpose of this motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u153	What about the same state that proudly announces the end of the "hole of the security", with which we have lived for decades, not to mention the accumulated debt; nor the situation of our pension insurance; and possible ways of financing dependency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u154	A law in 2019, that will be the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u155	Fiscal sincerity is also that! What to say about a state that bears witness to its people's worst sign of distrust by planning, on January 1, 2019, to levy income tax at source, that is, even before everyone has collected their money,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u156	It's after, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u157	... and then contribute precisely to the collective by requiring employers to carry out this task which is not theirs and which will generate terrible additional costs in the enterprises of France...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u158	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u159	... while the same state will take advantage of it to desert some of our territories again by closing the public treasury services? Associating the people to the budget, is that it? As you will have understood, we are not opposed to the opening of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u160	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u161	We simply want to stress that an indispensable precondition is necessary if we are to achieve an effective contribution to improving the functioning of Parliament and our democracy. The first precondition, I repeat, is a parliamentary one: parliamentarians must have the means to carry out the tasks that are at the heart of their mission. The second means is that of political sincerity, which is to tell the French where our country is and where it is going on the budget. At the moment, we are not there. All the points I have just made do not call into question the merits of the GDR Group's motion for a resolution on which we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u162	That's all for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u163	Have the courage to go to the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u164	You want to organize the National Council of Resistance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u165	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u166	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution brings to our House a crucial question, that of putting the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debate. Indeed, the distribution of State resources and expenditure is a highly political question: who is the focus of the effort and what are the means of the State used? In a republic like ours – respublica in Latin, i.e. the public thing – the state budget should be allocated to the common good and oriented towards the general interest. The sovereignty of the people is normally the foundation of our democracy. How, then, is it possible that the budgetary debate would exclude the people and their aspirations at this point, when this is the first place where their sovereignty should be expressed? Yet the people were excluded from budgetary debates, and the role of their representatives was minimized. And again! In institutional reform projects, the time for budget debate should be further limited. As for popular aspirations, they have been absent for a very long time. Budget debates are too often reduced to technical issues, which would be reduced to expert discussions and economic efficiency. The LOLF projects and annual performance reports – the PAPs and RAPs – that we are used to here are incomprehensible to the general public, and prevent the people from grasping the issues that no one is really thinking of explaining to them. The technocratic indices of performance, which are not the subject of democratic deliberation, are a budgetary compass. Yet it is the people who, through taxation, contribute to the state budget, and it is the people who benefit from it, at least in theory. But we can all see the decline of public services, which are the only goods of those who have nothing. The public hospital service, already in a pitiful state, is based only on the dedication of its agents. But all are in the same state – national education, culture, justice, public transport. Everywhere, there is disorganization and confusion as a result of absurd cuts in budgets and staff. For example, in Aubervilliers, of which I am the Member of Parliament, the trial court had to be closed to the public for long months due to lack of staff. The hearing period is twelve months, compared to two months in Paris. Imagine what happens when it takes as much time just to hear a rental dispute: it is almost insoluble when it is finally going to be dealt with! It is therefore the people who should be able to arbitrate the major budgetary choices, at least through their representatives. However, the possibilities for amendments for parliamentarians are being reduced to a great deal of grief: it is possible to propose the transfer of appropriations, but only within the same mission, and provided that the amount of its appropriations is not increased. Parliamentarians cannot therefore propose an overall alternative allocation of the different missions. The major balances of the budget are removed from the debate. For the rest of the time, Article 40 is responsible for preventing any parliamentary initiative that would require funding. Worse, that the state budget should be in balance is no longer subject to discussion, given that European rules prohibit what is called the structural deficit above 0.5%, and the deficit is short in excess of 3%: this is the famous golden rule. These deliberate budgetary rules by the people, imposed by obscurous European mechanisms, force budgets anyway. The imposed objective of any budget is to reduce deficits. Fiscal austerity is enshrined in the French organic law. Thus, the technocratic aspirations of Brussels are very present during the budgetary debates; those of the people, non-existent. The adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to impose on the people a treaty which he had rejected in a referendum three years earlier, was a mistake! All these reasons mean that the people are completely absent from the budget debates, except as a devoted taxpayer, or as a provider of savings on their backs, when the budgets that benefit all are bleak. All this to be able to give gifts to the richest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u167	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u168	The great principle that taxes and public services are used to redistribute the means to correct inequalities is now a distant memory. The countless unnecessary tax niches and the gifts given to the richest, especially in the last budget, provide precise proof of this. At this point in time, taxation becomes degressive rather than progressive. The richer you are, the more you have ways to escape tax by means of legal optimisation, or even tax desertion, illegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u169	Very, very rich, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u170	In the last budget, in keeping with the taxation of natural persons, the announced cost of gifts to the rich, €4.7 billion, appears to be significantly undervalued. In fact, it should be more than 10 billion euros! This fiscal and fiscal policy will deepen inequalities, without any kind of guarantee of success to boost investment and employment. On the contrary, it can be expected that there will be more windfall effects than real results for both individuals and large companies. Meanwhile, individualised housing subsidies – APL – are being removed to the smallest for 400 million euros, which will be given back to the 1000 taxpayers paying the most capital tax – ISF. Beautiful symbol of the inclusion of popular aspirations in the budget debates! Especially as we are talking about a very small part of the French population: the removal of the ISF will benefit primarily the 0.1% and especially the 0.01% of the richest households. France has 3400 households with assets ranging from 15 million to 49 billion euros. And that they are not trying to make us believe that it will create investment and employment! Far from being dynamic, French capitalism has taken a growing share of profits over the recent period to pay the financial rent, to the detriment of investment and wages. Popular aspirations – living with dignity from the fruit of his work – are much easier to satisfy than the insatiable greed of the ultra-rich. We are still waiting for the million jobs that François Hollande and Pierre Gattaz had promised with the money from the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – CICE. A total of €62 billion has been wasted since its inception: €11.59 billion in 2013; 17.5 in 2014 and 17.9 in 2015, for a number of jobs created ridiculously. According to a report by France Stratégie, the CICE probably had a direct effect of the order of 50,000 to 100,000 jobs created or saved over the period 2013-2014. Even with the optimistic figure of 200,000 jobs created or saved between 2013 and 2015, the price of the job saved to the unit amounts to 235,000 euros – that's delusional! By way of comparison, a SMIC costs, as a super-gross wage, i.e. by including all social contributions, 25,000 euros a year, so about ten times less! It would have been simpler and more effective for the State to hire directly. For the same price, countless jobs would have been created and certainly. As a result, France is rich in millionaires and poor people! To put the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budget debates, we must make the fiscal revolution. France has already made many numerical and reasonable proposals in this regard. It is necessary to completely recast the tax: let us make the income tax more progressive with a scale of fourteen instalments against five today – everyone has to pay and everyone according to his or her real means; Let's save 100% tax on the 20 times the median income – this would concern those who earn more than 400,000 euros a year and it would still leave them a good margin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u171	It's against the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u172	Let us create a universal tax for the French abroad, to remove the fraud and the tax desertion of the ultra-rich who believe that they escape from the agents of the tax by moving elsewhere – the fight against fraud already earns 10 billion euros; employers' fraud on social contributions must be combated – the Court of Auditors estimates it at 20 billion, which it would be urgent to recover for social security accounts to go green, rather than to cut back again on benefits. Let's remove unfair, socially inefficient or environmentally harmful tax niches, such as those on yachts – and there are many others. 85% of tax cuts benefit the richest 10%. In addition, EUR 5 billion of tax niches subsidising the use of fossil and polluting energy must be recovered. A total of 38 billion euros are recoverable, 26 of which immediately. Let us introduce a progressive scale of corporate tax and promote investment rather than dividend distribution. Let's lower the corporate tax rate from 33% to 25% to reduce taxes on SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u173	It's planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u174	The tax on distributed profits and share buybacks would already be worth 3 billion. Let's re-establish and strengthen the ISF and inheritance taxes to make billionaires pay today largely exempt for their professional property.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u175	You really have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u176	There should also be a maximum inheritance of EUR 33 million. This corresponds to the 0.01 per cent of the richest households and earns $3 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u177	It's an obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u178	Let us reduce VAT on basic necessities, and re-establish a "luxury VAT" to finance these cuts: the balance remains a credit of €5 billion; require companies to report their results on a country-by-country basis and tax the profits of companies where they are made; Let us prohibit French banks from any activity in tax havens by withdrawing bank licenses from recalcitrant institutions; Strengthen the human and technical resources of the tax and customs administration in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. Let's recruit tax officers to track down fraudsters and deserters – it's usefully spent money and civil servants who would bring much more money to the state than their salaries cost: it's estimated that between €60 billion and €80 billion of money escapes from state funds. These are my fellow Members how to put the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u179	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u180	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr General, putting the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debate is a virtuous resolution. However, this objective must be achieved on the basis of the principle of representative democracy, of which Parliament is already the guarantor. Although the Fifth Republic is part of a rationalised logic of parliamentarism, Parliament remains the cornerstone of our democracy. Legislative power has prerogatives. Title IV of the Constitution gives it a variety of means of action, building it into a genuine counter-power. Although the constitutional revisions followed in order to strengthen the effectiveness of its action, the 1958 text already granted it important powers. Finally, it is up to him to show the political will to seize it. Consequently, what is lacking is not so much the written Constitution as the practice of the institutions. It is in the pure political game, which is a matter of fact and not of law, that the place of Parliament is played. The challenge is more to get out of institutional inertia to regain strength and counterweight. It should be recalled that the foundations of parliamentary power lie in articles 24 and 34 of the Constitution. It is Parliament that passes the law, and it is in the form of a law that the financial and fiscal provisions are laid down. While it constitutes a limitation of the right of parliamentary initiative, Article 40 remains a pillar of the balance of the Fifth Republic, symbolizing the fight against previous parliamentary drifts. It avoids the possibility that provisions with a direct financial impact can be voted on, without taking into account the possible consequences for the overall state of public finances. In a crucial period of public accounts recovery, financial safeguards are essential. It would be detrimental to the multiplication of partial arrangements creating revenue and expenditure here and there, without an overall vision and with no prospect of the future. With regard to France's participation in the European Union, it derives from the expression of state sovereignty emanating mainly from the Parliament which authorized the ratification of the Treaties. Title XV of the Constitution bears witness to the desire to belong to the economic and political whole of the European Union. The constraints resulting from the European texts are not obstacles to the national Parliament but a budgetary discipline necessary for France's survival in a globalised economy. The French Parliament must not lose sight of the coordinated action of the European Parliaments. All are working together to reduce public deficits and create a recovery economy. With regard to the right of parliamentary initiative in budgetary matters, Parliament must first seize its current prerogatives before asking the Government to give it new ones. To date, the problem lies more in practice and in the balance of political power than in legal means of action. As for the creation of Parliament's own powers of expertise, on the one hand, this implies additional financial resources which are not relevant in the context of budgetary restrictions. On the other hand, as you know, there is a process under way to strengthen Parliament's evaluation capacity, through more in-depth work with the Court of Auditors, with independent bodies, or through the creation of a parliamentary evaluation agency. It is already possible, with a constant budget, to strengthen Parliament's powers of expertise: the Spring of Evaluation is an example of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u182	Today, parliamentarians can have access to objective documents issued by competent authorities. As regards the composition of the Court of Auditors, the Act of 1 July 2006 laying down statutory provisions applicable to the members of the Court of Auditors has already met the objective of openness and diversification. Moreover, the Court of Auditors is primarily a financial court and is therefore supposed to be impartial and independent. Consequently, the opinions of its members are eroded when they carry out their judicial duties. Moreover, the credibility of the institution lies not so much in the origin of its judges as in their degree of competence, the only true source of legitimacy. Finally, since their status was derived from a law that had no financial implications, Parliament would be as well in a position as the Government to request the diversification of the composition of the Court, without being opposed to the inadmissibility of article 40. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Putting the people and their aspirations at the centre of budgetary debates is the heart of our action. It is a concern that we share, but it already means becoming aware of our powers and using them effectively and responsibly. That's our ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u183	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u184	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of common sense in this motion for a resolution. Beyond rhetoric – Karl Marx whose bicentenary of birth is celebrated is obviously not dead, unlike all appearances – much of the criticism in this text sounds right. That is true, Parliament is often disarmed against the government. That is true, it is limited to weighing at the margin on budgetary choices. That is true, much of our independence is undermined by the omnipresence of Brussels. It is true that we do not have the human and technical means to carry out our task of evaluating and monitoring government action. That is true, we are unable to debate with equal arms with the power in place, for lack of the necessary tools to encrypt our proposals. That is true, in Parliament itself, the opposition is reduced to the congruent portion. It is true that the Court of Auditors is about to overstep its role, gradually becoming a sort of watchdog for financial orthodoxy. All this is true. And yet, even if I will vote for this motion for a resolution – I never judge the value of a text based on the political colour of the person or those who are the authors of it – I am puzzled when I read it. Why? The vocabulary I chose, I was alluding to it right now. 'The sovereignty of the people', 'the people and their representatives': these formulas which are constantly coming back under the pen of the authors of this motion for a resolution give the impression that the only real representatives in question would sit in the left corner of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u185	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u186	An impression corroborated by the sometimes particularly sectarian attitude of some against other deputies, yet they also elected from the people, but who do not have the desire to share their opinions. But let's go, obviously difficult for them to stop being a hemiplegic tantint. Besides, I have a little memory. This Constitution, which the authors of this motion for a resolution rightly accuse of limiting Parliament to a secondary role, has never really been changed when the left was in command – including when communist ministers were in the government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u187	There weren't many of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u188	To the extent that one would be tempted to say that one criticizes the Constitution when one sits in opposition, and that one uses it, without many states of soul, when one is in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u189	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u190	But, that is true, it has been a long time since my communist colleagues used their panties around the Council of Ministers table.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u191	It'll come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u192	If, as I said, I share much of the state of affairs outlined in this text, I am more cautious about the question of Article 40. I do not believe that one can – unless one shows a lot of demagogy and, when one sits in the opposition, the temptation is great – constantly add expenses without ever worrying about financial balance and therefore revenue. One last remark, concerning this time Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u193	He's not a congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u194	He who had promised to strengthen democracy and its institutions did not keep his word. Like his predecessors, he continued to make Elysée the heart and Matignon the lungs of our country, and to keep Parliament as a mere figure. I still have in mind – and it is not anecdotal – last summer's law on the moralization of public life, which deprived us of our little one, of our meagre power to help our territories through subsidies, especially to associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u196	But I repeat that, along with my colleagues on the left of this House, I share the view that allowing the opposition to play its full role can only be of benefit to our country. Yes, I am convinced that the debate is always fruitful and enriching. Georges Clemenceau said; " Glory be to the countries where we speak, shame be to the countries where we are silent. " If we want to reconcile the French with politics, we should ensure that Parliament does not reduce itself to an extension of the Elysée or Matignon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u197	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u198	But with you, Members of the majority, who so docilely comply with the instructions from above, I do not think it is for tomorrow. So I'm afraid Thomas Jefferson is still right when he said that in democracy, politics is the art of making the people believe that they govern. Let's try to make him lie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u199	The general discussion is closed. On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u200	Madam President, the rapporteur-general, Mr Chassaigne, ladies and gentlemen, after the various speeches, allow me to make just three remarks on this motion for a resolution. The first concerns the right of parliamentary initiative in budgetary matters. Strengthening this right would require, as you said, amending article 40 of the Constitution. Indeed, the right of parliamentary amendment is regulated by this Article, which states that "proposals and amendments made by Members of Parliament are not admissible where their adoption would result in either a reduction in public resources or the creation or increase of a public office". This framework seems to us to be consistent with the fact that it is up to the Government, as the Constitution stands, to determine the major financial balances. Indeed, only the latter has a structured procedure and the administrative resources necessary to reconcile the requests for financing of the various public policies with regard, in particular, to public finance objectives. At the same time, the definition of the major budgetary balances is part of the more general competence to determine and conduct the policy of the nation, which is the responsibility of the Government in accordance with article 20 of the Constitution. It should be pointed out that this is in no way a system specific to France, since the main foreign parliamentary regimes have a mechanism to oversee the financial initiatives of Members of Parliament – I am thinking in particular of the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Canada and Australia. Moreover, the challenge of article 40 of the Constitution could have negative effects not only on public finances, but also on the duration and quality of parliamentary debates. As proof, the deletion of article 40 would de facto deprive the Government of an instrument of control over the great balances. Parliamentary initiatives could then substantially change the budgetary balance without a consolidated view of public finances in the course of the debates. Moreover, too much easing of Article 40, e.g. allowing initiatives to increase public burden when compensated, could be detrimental to public accounts because of the potentially artificial nature of the pledge. Finally, the discussion of all initiatives aimed at creating or aggravating public charges would significantly increase the length of parliamentary debates, which would run counter to the objective of reducing the time taken to review financial texts in order to devote more time to policy evaluation. On the other hand, it must be noted that a balance has been found in the application of Article 40, and it seems to me necessary to preserve it. Although this article is rigorous in principle, its implementation allows for some significant flexibilities, both on the part of the Government and the finance commissions, with, for example, taking into account the commitments of the Government, the authorization of initiatives creating management burdens and the possibility of redeploying appropriations within a mission in the context of the review of the draft finance law. The second point concerns the determination of Parliament's means of carrying out its monitoring and evaluation tasks. It is my duty to remind you that such a prerogative lies exclusively with parliamentary assemblies, which enjoy full autonomy in administrative and financial matters, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers. In its decision of 25 July 2001, the Constitutional Council considered that the provision of a specific mission to consolidate the appropriations allocated to the public authorities, including the assemblies, ensured "the safeguarding of the principle of financial autonomy of the public authorities concerned, which is a matter of respect for the separation of powers". In this connection, it should be recalled that, under Article 7 of the Ordinance of 17 November 1958 on the operation of parliamentary assemblies, "the appropriations necessary for the operation of parliamentary assemblies shall be the subject of proposals prepared by the Quaestors of each assembly and adopted by a joint committee composed of the Quaestors of the two assemblies. [...] The proposals thus adopted are included in the draft budget law to which is annexed an explanatory report drawn up by the [supra] committee. » Thus, the strengthening of the administrative and financial capacity of parliamentary assemblies to carry out their monitoring and evaluation tasks is not within the competence of the Government. Finally, the third point concerns the diversification of the members of the Court of Auditors. It should be noted that the recruitment of staff of this institution is already relatively open. In addition to its members assigned to leave the National School of Administration, the Court of Auditors welcomes externally appointed officials and magistrates, as well as seconded public officials. However, the diversity of recruitment must also be reconciled with the fact that "the members of the Court of Auditors have the status of magistrates", as recalled in article L. 120-1 of the Code of Financial Courts. Accordingly, recruitment procedures are laid down by law in order to guarantee the independence of the Court as a court. It should be noted that the legislator has intervened on several occasions in order to change the rules applicable to the appointment of financial judges, in particular in 2006, with the Act of 1 July 2006 laying down statutory provisions applicable to members of the Court of Auditors, or in 2012. In these circumstances, it is open to parliamentarians, irrespective of any resolution, to propose developments relating to the recruitment of judges of the Court of Auditors, with due regard for the necessary independence of that court. The debate you are raising, Mr Chassaigne, on the quality of the information available to parliamentarians and on the need to open budgetary debates, to make evaluation more precise and to question certain procedures is obviously interesting. The forthcoming constitutional review will provide an opportunity to deepen it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You concluded your speech by quoting Confucius: "The one who moves the mountain is the one who starts by moving small stones. Confucius also said, "I don't want to know the answers, I'm trying to understand the questions." I think I understand some of your questions, but it does not put us in a position to accept the answers you are proposing this evening, but the essential thing is that we can answer these questions together at a later stage. Therefore, the Government does not support your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u201	I wish to make a point of order, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u202	There is no explanation of vote, Mr Chassaigne, but the point of order is ex officio, provided that it is a true point of order. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u203	Thank you, Madam President. This is a true point of order, on the holding of our debates under Rule 58(1). [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] First, I would like to say that, in my view, our discussions have been extremely enriching, and that there have been good interventions. As part of this point of order, I would like to thank all the speakers, although they do not necessarily agree with the proposals we have made. [[Smile]] Secondly, I have asked for a public vote on the motion for a resolution. However, listening to the various interventions, I am seized by a fear, which goes from the ground to the point of mind: it is that the vote is not motivated by the text itself, that it does not really concern the three proposals set out in it. The various interventions have indeed shown that some of us have gone over it. [[Smile]] I therefore repeat all three of them: we wish to encourage the Government to make proposals aimed at strengthening the right of parliamentary initiative in budgetary matters; call on the Government to provide the necessary financial resources to enable Parliament to have its own powers of expertise, with full autonomy, in order to effectively monitor its action and evaluate public policies; To encourage the Government to take initiatives aimed at diversifying the composition of the Court of Auditors in order to strengthen the plurality of opinion and expression within the Court of Auditors and thus to maintain the credibility of the Court of Auditors. With this, I feel that we are approaching a consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u205	Thank you, Mr. President Chassaigne. You have a great deal of skill, since the point of order is designed to identify possible breaches of the regulations. However, you stressed the quality of the debates, which means that they were in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u206	[[Smile]] I still have a lot to learn!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u207	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1278.u208	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote on the draft law for the freedom to choose one's professional future; Discussion of the motion for a resolution aimed at sustaining the means necessary for the participation of the Ministry of Justice in the national effort to combat terrorism; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to promote the fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities. The meeting is adjourned.
