ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Nathalie Elimas and others to strengthen the management of paediatric cancers through research, support for family caregivers, training of professionals and the right to be forgotten (No. 1328, 1416).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u2	Mrs Nathalie Elimas, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u3	The subject that brings us together today cannot leave anyone indifferent. Paediatric cancers in our country affect 2,500 children and adolescents every year, 500 of whom die. After accidents, this is the second leading cause of child mortality, the first by disease. However, these cancers are rare diseases. Few compared to 400,000 new cases and 150,000 deaths in adults every year in our country. Rare also by their specificities: there are about 60 different paediatric cancers, whose origins, development and manifestations have little to do with what we know about cancers that affect adults. Without blackening a picture that does not need it, I will mention again the impact of the disease on the quality of life of young patients, who often suffer from lasting sequelae or disabling effects, due in particular to the side effects of the treatments. It is also necessary to mention the risks of significant relapse, of the order of 35% or collateral damage to the family unit which is not necessarily suspected, whether psychological or economic. Although the survival rates of children and adolescents have been in the range of 80 per cent five years after diagnosis in recent years, compared with 50 per cent for adults, these multiple aspects are sufficient to justify special attention being paid to these cancers. It is, first of all, essential that the research effort be stepped up in favour of paediatric treatments. Today, for the most part, doctors adapt to the age and weight of children the chemotherapy developed for adults, which carries heavy consequences, often years after the cure of cancer. The care and psychological support of children and adolescents in care, as well as in post-cancer and preparation for their future, must also be improved. Finally, special attention must be paid to the psychological and social support of their families. The ambition of the bill that I have the honour to present to you this morning on behalf of the MODEM Group, which was adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs last week, is precisely to strengthen the management of paediatric cancers, through a comprehensive and coherent approach that addresses at the same time these complementary problems: research, support for families, the training of health professionals and the right to be forgotten. I will not go back to the debate that we had here a few days ago and that we concluded by unanimously voting on an amendment tabled by the Government, increasing the budget for paediatric oncology research by EUR 5 million. We know that our country's research effort is important, that it is recognised at European and international level, and that it carries innovative programmes. To illustrate this, I will mention only the AcSé -e SMART programme, which aims to double the number of new medicines offered to children in two years and which is already being replicated in the Netherlands before being developed in four other European countries in the near future. That is why, while Article 1 of the proposed law refers to the question of credits, it focuses on a subject which has appeared essential in the course of the hearings that I have conducted: the development of a ten-year strategy for the fight against cancer, defining the lines of research. Many of the actors I interviewed convinced me that, among the missions entrusted to the National Cancer Institute – INCa – this aspect was lacking. Under the provisions in force, the INCa certainly coordinates the national mechanism for the fight against cancer, involving a large number of institutions and private actors – research organisations, universities, charitable associations, industries. However, I have also heard, strongly expressed by researchers, parents' associations and INCa itself, the need to define a national strategy, now considered indispensable, and to strengthen the coordination of research in order to reduce its fragmentation and the lack of medium-term visibility of funding. That is why I proposed to the committee a new wording amendment, which I am glad it was adopted. With Article 2, the bill remains in the field of research, but addresses it from a more practical perspective. The aim is to facilitate the participation of minors in clinical trials initially open to adults, always in a strictly supervised manner, where this is relevant and scientifically justified. I would like to reassure my colleagues who have been able to raise concerns about this: Article 2, which the committee has adopted, does not in any way alter the rules on parental consent or the protection of children. On the other hand, the measure we are proposing will help to avoid any loss of chance for children in the face of cancers for the time being incurable. The participation of children in adult clinical trials is also a prerequisite for the development of truly appropriate treatments and care. The development of specific therapeutic innovations will improve the quality of life of patients and reduce the handicaping sequelae suffered by the vast majority of former patients who have been cured as a result of the treatments received. As with Article 1, this reform meets the expectations of the parents' associations, which bear witness to the current blockages, and meets the consent of the oncology teachers I have heard. Article 3 of the proposal aims to improve the existing parental presence leave scheme and the accompanying daily parental presence allowance – AJPP. As you know, parents of a child with cancer are now granted three hundred and ten days' leave over a three-year period, split and renewable once. The daily allowance which may be paid to them, on the basis of the medical examination service, makes it possible to compensate in part for the loss of their wages during their child's illness. In 2014, when you were presiding over INCa, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, you alerted the National Fund of Family Allowances – CNAF – about the cumbersome procedures, the delays and the consequences that could result, sometimes very damaging to modest families. I have withdrawn from my auditions the feeling, shared on many benches in this House, that the difficulties persist for families today, in particular because the anticipated duration of the AJPP is insufficient in case of heavy and prolonged pathology or the renewal of the benefit is frequently refused. That is why the committee has adopted the principle of deflation of the benefit, so that it can be adapted to the real and cover the pathology in its entirety, with some children unfortunately falling back for years. However, in order not to introduce a break in equality between parents on the basis of the nature of the disease suffered by their child, we shall now consider amendments aimed at extending the scheme, without limiting it to children with cancer alone. As for the last two articles of the bill, they were not adopted by the committee. I deeply regret this, because they are part of the coherence of the scheme. I would therefore like to take a moment to come back and convince you of the need to restore them. The care of children with cancer requires special attention to certain essential aspects, such as pain, whether caused by the disease itself or by treatment, or the psychological support of children, their parents and siblings, for whom the upheaval is considerable. The third cancer plan highlighted these aspects and made them priorities. However, parents' associations, psychologists, nurses and pain specialists point out that these issues are still very insufficiently addressed in the field – I refer you to my report for more details. Beyond the means to be devoted to it, it is in the first place on the training of health professionals that it is essential to carry out the effort, particularly in the area of pain management or psychological follow-up. It was opposed that section 4 was not within the scope of the Act, that it did not fall within the legislator's jurisdiction to determine the content of medical and paramedical training, and that the department was undertaking a process of re-certification of health professionals – which you will confirm to us, minister. I do not disagree, and it is precisely for this reason that the recovery article that I propose, and which I am pleased to see taken up on all the benches, refers expressly to a decree in the Council of State to fix the content of the actions for the training of continuous personal development – DPC. It seems to me, in any case, extremely important to point out in the law that certain problems must be included in the process of continuing training of professionals, and I thank you in advance for your welcome to these amendments to restore Article 4. Section 5 of the bill, to which I also attach great importance, has also been deleted by the committee. It was intended to extend the right to be forgotten to young people between eighteen and twenty-one years of age, from five years after their remission, against ten years today. I am told that it would be inappropriate for the legislator to intervene in a treaty process that has been working satisfactorily since the early 1990s and that it would be in danger of blocking the process, to which I know you very much attached, Madam Minister. However, this measure would affect fewer than 900 young people, or even less, since it would be intended only for those who wish to enter into a loan. It is simply a question of enabling them to carry out their projects without delay, without suffering a double penalty as a result of their illness. I would add that such an approach had already been successfully carried out in the context of the parliamentary review of the bill to modernize the health system, demonstrating whether it was necessary to do so that the treaty process was not the only way to change the right to be forgotten. Article 5 is therefore a first step, albeit a modest one, towards Emmanuel Macron's campaign promise, which had committed itself to reducing the right to be forgotten to five years for all. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] These are the provisions of the bill that I wanted to present to you. I know that these ambitions are shared by all. It seems to me important that we meet the expectations of patients and their families, and that we help improve their difficult daily lives. This is, in any case, the ambition of this text expected by all the actors I have met.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u5	Today we are looking at the bill to strengthen the care of paediatric cancers through research, support for family caregivers, training of professionals and the right to be forgotten. Let me first thank you for drawing everyone's attention to this subject that I unfortunately know well. It is impossible, even for those who have devoted much of their lives to the fight against cancer, not to feel emotion when referring to pediatric cancers in this House. I obviously remember the faces of particular children and the unalterable pain of their families. I also know that we must always keep hope and that major therapeutic advances are possible thanks to ongoing research and innovations. The feeling of injustice is inherent in the disease, which strikes blindly and brutally. This feeling of injustice turns into a sense of revolt when it comes to children. Therefore, whenever proposals are made that can improve the lives of sick children and their families, you can count on my unwavering support. You will also be able to count on my sense of responsibility and concern for a clear, legible right, always concerned with children and their loved ones. The other feeling that emerges when talking to these families is that of urgency: the urgency of treatment, the urgency of getting out of it, but also the urgency of developing new treatments, the urgency of being able to access a medicine or clinical trial, the urgency of finding a cure. However, this very short time for families is often incompatible with research or medical progress. It is up to you, legislators, to seek to reconcile them. With regard to INCa, which I have had the honour of chairing for five years, you wish to strengthen its missions by entrusting it, in coordination with stakeholders, with the development of a ten-year research strategy that determines, inter alia, the means allocated. That is the meaning of section 1 of your bill. INCa, as you know, is a public interest grouping in its board of directors that brings together all the actors involved in the fight against cancer. In essence, therefore, it has a coordinating role, both in the identification of needs and in the implementation of solutions. Nevertheless, INCa remains an operator of the state, which finances it at more than 90%, and reports to Parliament in an annual report. It is therefore important that the definition of the national strategy and the allocation of resources to support it are the responsibility of the ministries responsible for health and research. On the other hand, it is up to INCa to prepare, propose and implement a strategy. You propose, in Article 2, to modify the conditions for the participation of minors in clinical trials on paediatric cancers. The article in the Public Health Code that you wish to complete aims first and foremost to protect minors from research that would not be both useful and necessary. To the extent that your proposal would have the possible effect – and I am well aware that this is obviously not your intention – of reducing the level of protection of minors from clinical trials, I cannot support it. On the other hand, I hear your concern to address the concerns of families that their children may not be able to participate in clinical trials. I will therefore propose that this article be redrafted. You propose, with Article 3, to link the AJPP to the actual duration of the illness by derogating, for the parents of children with cancer, from the ceiling applicable to the number of days of leave to which the employee may be granted parental leave. On this issue, we are trying to find solutions and I hope that your bill will allow a significant step forward for sick children and their families. This article raises questions about the relationship between benefits. I am thinking of the education allowance for the disabled child – the EEAH – and the disability compensation benefit – the PCH – for the child, which are intended to help parents who need to reduce or interrupt their work, to call on a third person or to incur costs to care for their sick child, by offering a wider range of assistance than the AJPP focused on compensation for the interruption of their activity. The debate is therefore open and we must find a satisfactory and legible solution together. You then propose, under Article 4, to improve the conditions for the care of children with cancer by creating an obligation to train nurses and doctors specializing in oncology. It is obvious that the care of children requires special skills acquired in initial or continuing training. However, I am reluctant to include in the law the obligation to follow specific training actions. Other levers of action exist, and I draw your attention to the work already undertaken by my ministry on the initial training of health professionals and the re-certification of doctors, with the recent report submitted by Professor Serge Uzan. I would also like to point out that the care of children with cancer can only be carried out in institutions authorized there, and that this authorization is itself subject to the presence of duly competent and trained professionals. You also go to the essentials with the right to forget. This is the meaning of your Article 5, which moves the age limit from eighteen to twenty-one years. I personally fought for this right to forget without which the former sick people continue to bear the burden of illness as they try to realize a life project. I fought for this right to be included in the third cancer plan and I fought again for its definition and implementation. I cannot therefore be suspected of not being able to work with all the stakeholders, and in particular the insurers, whom I have repeatedly reminded of their responsibilities. I am therefore particularly sensitive to the questions you are asking. Work already underway considers the opportunity to move the age limit, and I think they should continue. My determination cannot be questioned, but, with all responsibility, I would like to reaffirm to you my commitment to a specifically French convention aimed at ensuring the right of sick people to borrow and which aims to improve from year to year. The scientific consensus approach, based on the AERAS Convention, has made significant progress in favour of patients and former patients regardless of their age and type of disease. I believe it is imperative to respect the process of the AERAS Convention, which continues to prove its worth and evolve, thanks in particular to the work of the INCa, for the greatest benefit of patients. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, I deeply believe that the work we have undertaken will continue to bear fruit, and I would like to remind you, during the discussion of the amendments, of my unwavering commitment to this fight and to help you in your fight, in our fight with children and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u6	In the general debate, Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u7	This bill on the agenda of the parliamentary niche of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has a major and necessary ambition: to improve the daily life and ensure the future of children and adolescents affected by the scourge of cancer. It establishes a comprehensive framework for the management of paediatric cancers through a shift in research funding, the optimisation of support for caregivers, the strengthening of the training of healthcare professionals and the coherence of the right to be forgotten. First of all, we would like to welcome the substantive work carried out by our dear colleague Nathalie Elimas and her determination to see this text, which deals with a fundamental subject that must be mobilized by all of us. Madam Minister of Health, I heard you when you recalled your commitment to this text. It goes without saying that the MODEM and related group will strongly support, without the ounce of a reservation, this bill built around various measures that result in a coherent text that complements the cancer plan usefully and effectively. Launched in 2014, the latest plan specifically addresses childhood cancer and makes many recommendations that are reflected in the provisions of this bill. Every year, 2500 cases of cancer are diagnosed in children in France: 1,700 cases in children under 15 years of age and nearly 800 cases in adolescents between 15 and 19 years of age. Considerable progress has been made over the past few decades, enabling more than four out of five children to be cured. However, continued efforts are needed to further improve the quality and safety of care, access to innovation and comprehensive support for children and their families during and after the disease. This is the object of the articles that we are about to discuss. Article 1 lays the foundations for strategic and financial planning of research on childhood cancers, which mobilises and coordinates all stakeholders – public and private operators, healthcare professionals and patients. The development of a ten-year national strategy will define the main axes of cancer research while establishing how public resources in paediatric cancer research will be allocated. This first article is a founding article, since it allows us to launch a truly framed and collective dynamic. Section 2 opens the possibility of conducting targeted clinical trials in paediatrics. This measure recommended by INCa appears to be obvious since childhood cancers are significantly different from cancers that affect adults. However, with a few exceptions, clinical trials are now conducted exclusively on adults. As it is difficult to apply the results of adult research directly to the child, this provision aims to benefit young audiences from the latest therapeutic innovations and treatments most suited to their pathologies. Of course, this provision will have to be framed and made only with the consent of the parents! But the management of pediatric cancers is not only medical. It also involves accompaniment by relatives and, in particular, by parents. Article 3 therefore aims to optimise the daily parental attendance allowance by making it conditional on the actual duration of the disease and its treatment. The current scheme provides for a ceiling of the allowance of three hundred and ten days, which does not make it possible to respond to each situation. Each disease evolves differently depending on the patient, and the risk of relapse is real: correlate the maximum number of daily allowances to the duration of treatment, so hospitalization is common sense. The support of parents in this test is essential and every effort must be made to facilitate their presence with their child. In addition, we believe that strengthening the training of health professionals is necessary in order to improve the transmission of information and therapeutic support to young patients and their parents. An adult is not treated in the same way as a child, particularly with respect to pain management or psychological apprehension of the disease. Article 4 deleted in committee took this into account. Whether this provision is re-established through legislation or through regulation, we believe it is a good practice to implement it. Finally, Article 5, also rejected in committee, extended to young people aged 18 to 21 years a right to be forgotten five years after their remission. A right to be forgotten five years before eighteen years and ten years after the majority is an inconsistency that must be corrected quickly! I have heard what you have said on this subject, Madam Minister of Health, but we strongly reaffirm it. [[Ms. Béatrice Descamps applauds]] [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] It seems more than logical that a young person between the ages of 18 and 20 has the same right to be forgotten as a young person between the ages of 17 and 15. The cancer test represents a considerable burden on the life of a young girl or boy. We say it forcefully, everything must be put in place to help them get into life once the fight against the disease has been won. We therefore hope that the discussions that are taking place will provide an opportunity to find a compromise on this crucial and fundamental issue for families, but also for young people with this disease. As you will have understood, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a structuring one. It tackles the problem of paediatric cancer through the medical and scientific prism, but also in its social and economic aspect. It makes the necessary adjustments to existing arrangements and sets credible objectives, while involving all the players in the chain involved in this disease. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We therefore invite all the groups in this House to vote on this text, in a spirit of consensus and with the ambition to work for the common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u8	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u9	This bill by Nathalie Elimas calls on us to strengthen the management of paediatric cancers through numerous means: research, support for family caregivers, the training of health professionals and the right to be forgotten. We know the numbers, but I still want to remind them: some 1,750 children and nearly 800 teenagers are affected every year by cancer in our country. Half of them are under the age of five, and 500 die. In France and Europe, paediatric cancers are the leading cause of death by childhood disease, the second after accidents. More than sixty childhood cancers are already listed, most of them being very different from adult cancers. They are often of behavioural origin, due, for example, to the consumption of tobacco or alcohol. In children, cancers are quite distinct in 80% of cases: they consist of solid or bone tumours. Also, behavioural prevention policies that reduce the prevalence of cancer in adults are not as effective in children, and because we are not talking about the same cancers. In addition, treatment for children may have significant disabling effects. This is partly because, for the most part, oncopediatric chemotherapy has been developed for adults, and doctors adapt it according to the age and weight of the child. This explains why the answer, unfortunately, is not always adapted. While the survival rate of children and adolescents has been around 80 per cent five years after diagnosis in recent years, compared with 50 per cent for adults, it should be noted that paediatric cancers, even those treated, may have major sequelae or lifetime disabilities due to side effects of drugs. According to a 2013 study cited by the physician's Daily, almost all of the 45-year-old adults who have been treated for cancer in their childhood suffer from at least one serious, disabling chronic condition that threatens their life-threatening prognosis. You will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, that focusing on research specific to childhood cancers, which are in fact rare diseases, is therefore a priority. In this case, it is appropriate for the National Assembly to address this issue in order to empower our health institutions, researchers and caregivers to provide appropriate and high-quality solutions and care. On all our benches, a consensus seems to be emerging. How, in fact, can we not be sensitive to this question? How can we not move when we talk about the fate of sick children, torn from their youth and carelessness by the brutality of an infamous pathology? Also, our group will be very kind to this bill, which is one of the answers to the urgent need to improve paediatric care. Nevertheless, this text lays the foundations for a broader debate, which we must have, Madam Minister, for the management of serious paediatric diseases. While cancers are of particular severity and deserve our full interest, the same applies to congenital malformations, some cases of heavy autism and many other serious and chronic diseases our children suffer. I therefore wish, minister, that we have in the health bill, which is currently being prepared, a title dedicated to childhood diseases. We cannot, in fact, write a separate law for every type of serious illness that affects children; we need a broader text, which flattens a number of things and applies to all, without distinguishing between pathologies according to their nature. We in the Socialist Group are aware of the risk of unconstitutionality of certain provisions of this text if it is not amended in our discussions. Nevertheless, it represents an opportunity that we believe must be seized to improve the management of paediatric cancers. Even if it only does so in an incomplete way, even if it is only a small step, even if it remains insufficient, the stake is too important to steal from us. For my part, I consider that this bill offers us the opportunity to give a smile to families affected by a tragedy, as is a pediatric cancer – the former educator tells you. It also allows us, thanks to the right to forget and the deplorable parental presence leave, to give a smile to children with cancer, who will be able to spend more time with their parents during treatment and, once cured, not to be penalized in life. [[Mrs. Gisèle Biémouret applauds. – Applause on the benches of the MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] So let us take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to give them a smile, because, to quote Antoine de Saint-Exupéry "smile is often the essential. We're paid by a smile."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u10	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u11	As with Augustine, Eva, Mathis, each year, it is about 2550 new cases of leukemia, brain tumours, lymphomas that are diagnosed in children, cancer being today the leading cause of death by disease between the ages of zero and eighteen. The survival of children and adolescents with cancer improved significantly until the 1980s. But 500 children and adolescents, equivalent to 20 school classes, still die of cancer or leukemia each year. Today, as part of the agenda for our colleagues in the MODEM Group, we have before us a bill to improve the management of these paediatric cancers. During the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, we welcomed this initiative, and we share the commendable aim. We could only subscribe to the stated ambition, which clearly transcends all our political divisions. A sick child needs his parents, and his parents need to be next to him. A child with cancer must be able to receive the most appropriate care and be surrounded by the best trained care staff possible. A young person who has been ill must be able to enjoy the right to be forgotten. This bill had the merit of proposing improvements in these three areas. It allows parents to be at the highest possible level alongside their child, thanks to better compensation for the suspension of their professional activity during this period; that is the meaning of Article 3. Article 4 aims to provide health care providers with training in the management of children with cancer to improve their follow-up. Finally, the text reinforces the right to be forgotten for young adults aged 18 to 21 years, from five years after their remission to 10 years today. We regret this, but it seems that our MODEM colleagues were not listened to by those in the running Republic, who preferred to amputate this bill from its articles 4 and 5, which were in the right direction. However, article 4 was limited to specifying that the continuing training of health professionals working with children with cancer must include measures to improve their care, referring the content of this measure to a subsequent decree in the Council of State. This logic does not seem aberrant to us. It is consistent to include the principle in the law and then leave it to the regulatory authority to determine its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u13	The Republic on the move refers once again to a subsequent consultation the implementation of measures which yet have a widely shared consensus on our benches, and whose urgency is not debated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u15	We support this article because it corresponds to a concern expressed by family associations and caregivers themselves about the lack of training of health professionals in the follow-up of paediatric cancers. As a result, we will propose its recovery. We also regret the deletion of Article 5 in committee. We do not understand the reasons which led to the rejection of this measure, which concerns only a very small number of young people, about 900, and which corresponds, moreover, to a campaign promise of candidate Emmanuel Macron. While it is legitimate for insurance and user associations to be consulted prior to the final adoption of such a measure, there is nothing to prevent such consultations and to assess the impact of the extension referred to during the parliamentary shuttle. It was the procedure that had prevailed during the previous legislature for the bill to modernize the health system. The recognition of a right to be forgotten for borrowers who had cancer pathologies was included in the scheme, by amendment, at first reading in the National Assembly, devoting France even more as a country at the forefront of advances in the law of cancer patients. As a result, the law had established the principle and allowed the conventional actors to meet to determine how they would be implemented. Article 5, which you have deleted, goes in the same direction. I would add that it is only symbolic in scope, because not all the young people concerned will, of course, apply for a loan within this period of time. We will therefore also propose the reinstatement of this article. However, we can only be disappointed by Article 1. As it stands, it confines itself to entrusting INCa with a new task of coordinating public and private research organizations, with a view to developing, jointly with the State, a ten-year strategy for the fight against cancer. Although this measure goes, of course, in the right direction, it lacks ambition. Today, the survival rate of children with cancer stagnates, and doctors are still facing therapeutic impasses, for example for brain stem tumours. According to official sources, it is between 450 and 500 children who die of cancer in France, for about 6000 in Europe. Despite the substantial efforts made by the cancer plans in the area of paediatric cancer, the number of deaths among children is no longer decreasing due to insufficient public and private funding. Our researchers do not have sufficient resources to carry out the research programmes that are essential. In the face of this lack of response, many parents, faced with the disarray of medical teams, resort to care and solutions developed abroad, with all the financial consequences and social inequalities involved. We are convinced, in line with the conclusions of the study group on paediatric cancers chaired from 2015 to 2017 by Martine Faure, then Member of Parliament for Gironde, that a dedicated research programme, with at least 20 million euros, must be launched. We propose that it be financed by a specific contribution based on the turnover of pharmaceutical laboratories. In the face of this tragedy, it is up to the public authorities to show political courage. If funding for research on children's cancers is not sufficient, it is the role and size of the state to replace private sector failures. In a constructive spirit, having learned that the MODEM Group would defend a proposal for a law on the management of paediatric cancers, we decided to amend the agenda of our next parliamentary niche, scheduled for December 6. Our aim was to keep up with the work of our colleagues, beyond our political affiliations, by bringing together all the parties through our motion for a resolution. We can only be disappointed by this lack of ambition. Parents, associations and the French population are waiting for responsible decisions from their representatives. We have here, I believe, a unique opportunity to show them that we are indeed responsible and that we know how to give priority to what deserves it – what is more precious than the health of a child? While parents' associations best support research projects, they cannot replace the state. The lack of research resources is not enough to respond to families. In short, while the overall philosophy of the bill has received the consent of our group, we cannot accept the text in its present form, which, in our view, considerably diminishes its scope, in particular because it is essential for us to give the search for additional resources. As it stands, the IDU, Act and Independent Group will therefore reluctantly abstain from voting on the bill. (Applause from the UDI-Agir Group)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u16	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u17	The debate will convince you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u18	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u19	Every speaker who spoke before me spoke with dignity and seriousness on a very painful subject for the families concerned, which is also a subject of general interest. Our group is grateful that this debate can take place. The issue of paediatric cancers continues to grow as their number increases, and while therapies must be recognized, they are no longer improving. Let's say, the bill we are looking at raised a lot of hope when it was placed on the committee's agenda. We welcomed him and supported almost all of his articles. Unfortunately, two of the three most important articles were rejected in committee. Article 4, first of all, which introduced new continuing training for health professionals dealing with paediatric cancers. However, it is essential to inform patients about their pathology and to make them understand it. We therefore hope that common sense will prevail and that this article will be restored. Article 5 has also been deleted as a very important step forward for children affected by cancer. It provides for the extension of the right to be forgotten to young people under the age of 21 years, so that patients do not suffer during their youth from a disease suffered during their childhood and that they would be deprived of any possibility of receiving a reasonable insurance rate and of entering into a bank loan. Madam Minister, we do not understand the committee's vote when Emmanuel Macron has promised to extend the right to be forgotten after five years to all cancer and hepatitis C patients, among other diseases. Far from me the will to make the debate lose its dignity; Still, there is a high suspicion that some insurance or banking lobbies have weighed in this wrong choice. Without these two essential articles, the bill seems to be emptied of almost any substance. We will therefore propose to re-establish them, as almost all the groups in the Assembly do. Only one truly important provision has been adopted in committee: that of deploring the duration of parental leave. We'll support her. It seems aberrant to ask the parents of a child with cancer to return to work on the grounds that a certain period of time, currently set at three hundred and ten days, has been exceeded. The disease, however, does not respect any threshold! I would also like to express my great regret to you: the bill sets aside the question of the additional funding needed for paediatric oncology, simply asking the public authorities to establish a minimum threshold of which we do not even know the exact level. However, given the specificity of paediatric cancers and the shortness of current therapeutic strategies, we need to explore other fields of research and, to this end, invest substantial resources in many fields, without knowing where the most useful discoveries will come from. Research teams must be cross-sectional and as sharp as possible. We hope, therefore, that our amendment to abound the INCa's appropriations will convince you. One last remark. The increase in the number of cancers is due in part to endocrine disruptors and air pollution that affect women's fertility, but also their pregnancy. We will only be able to take the problem of paediatric cancer with our hands on many scales: by banning glyphosate, by improving the diet, in particular by controlling the levels of salt, sugar and fatty acids, and by developing public transport in order to reduce the number of fine particles present in the air, to give only a few examples of the ecological and medical emergency. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know the issues at stake; the groups have expressed themselves with clarity and precision; Many Members have invested in the matter – of course, it was my colleague Caroline Fiat who led the debate, but I would like to thank them on her behalf and on behalf of my group. Please, don't turn this bill into a kind of political placebo, powdered in the eyes that would serve only to silence the serious grievances that are being addressed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u20	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u21	Each and every one of us, in this chamber and far beyond, knows in his entourage a child struck by this treacherous disease. Each and everyone saw, almost or a little further, relatives accompanying a child or a teenager in this titan fight, facing with him the care, the pain, the uncertainties and, sometimes, supporting him in his remission or holding his hand to the shore. As we begin the debate, I have faces in mind; I say it with emotion and sobriety, simply, as we gather. The gathering, however, has little place here, where we have to provide answers – answers that can cause debate. It is difficult to bring them all, difficult to avoid the impotence to which the disease tries to reduce the human. But we can and must act. The families who have to experience these trials call us there. That is why I would like to thank the rapporteur for putting this text on our agenda. Every year, 2,500 new cases of paediatric cancer are diagnosed, and cancer is the leading cause of death by disease in children and adolescents. Faced with this challenge, society must mobilize to improve the management of paediatric cancers. To this end, it is proposed to mobilise several levers: research, support for carers, vocational training, extension of the right to be forgotten. These measures respond to the demands I hear. However, we know that research in paediatric cancerology – such as cancer research in general, if necessary to prevent, modify our lifestyles, production and consumption in order to prevent cancer from developing – has suffered for too long from a chronic lack of financial resources, which does not, or does not sufficiently, allow for the development of new treatments essential for effective control. The French research effort on paediatric cancers has received funding of €38 million over the period 2007-2011, or 10% of the funding for public cancer research, estimated at €350 million over the same period. The 5 million added as a result of the pressure exerted during the budget debate are still insufficient...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u23	...since the missing means are now assessed by the associations and by various missions at 20 million euros per year. Indeed, while significant improvements in chances of survival were noted between 1980 and 1990, several data indicate that the mortality rate among children affected by cancer has not declined since the mid-1990s. I would like to stress the fundamental role of various associations that are trying to fill the gaps in public research, access to care and accompaniment. If we cannot promise results, it is more than essential to ensure sufficient funding for research to enable clinical trials that could lead to new therapies. Making a drug available requires an investment in public research, mainly basic research, to identify new biological mechanisms on which action should be taken. However, paediatric cancers have important specificities. It is therefore essential to increase the public funding allocated to them, especially since, since they are among the rare diseases, the efforts of large private laboratories are not necessarily on the table. The text before us deals in part with the problem of research funding. It creates an obligation to negotiate and coordinate between the actors involved in research on the strategy and the means involved, with INCa as the lead agency. This is undoubtedly desirable, as funding appears to be broken down between the different research organisations. For our part, we propose to go further by creating a small fee for private pharmaceutical laboratories. This is the whole purpose of Jean-Christophe Lagarde's bill, which we co-signed. We will have the opportunity to reopen this debate in a week's time when we consider the motion for a resolution presented by our colleagues in the IDU, Action and Independent Group. The challenge is to create a sustainable source of funding for paediatric cancer research that escapes the logic of reducing public spending. It is also a question of creating an additional resource to avoid a set of vases communicating between the means allocated to adult cancer research and the resources dedicated to paediatric cancer research, since the fight against cancers in children must not be carried out at the expense of the fight against cancers in adults. Although our expectations are not met on this point, we support the provisions contained in this text, as they represent progress. The deplorable duration of parental leave to take account of the duration of the pathology, as well as the possibility of extending the payment of the daily parental attendance allowance, are undoubtedly in the right direction. They help support caregivers. You need time to accompany your child, and it is often when the credit time is exhausted that this need becomes even more felt. This situation should therefore be rectified. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that this is a very small allocation and that we may, on occasion, consider other avenues for improving it. For here too, social inequalities are revealed; society must also bear witness to its effective support for the passing of these trials. It is an important right that we must open. With regard to the other measures we consider positive, we regret that some have been rejected in committee. I'll mention two of them. The first is the abolition of the extension of the right to be forgotten to 21 years for young people who have had cancer. However, we strongly support this extension, because we must guarantee these people the opportunity to project themselves in the future. This is also one of the conditions for a sustainable remission. This projection in the future often involves borrowing. However, banking or insurance agencies continue to be very strict in the granting of loans when sickness has occurred, despite the right to be forgotten. That's not acceptable. The second measure abolished by the majority of the majority is Article 4, which creates an obligation for oncology care workers to train in the care of children. We agree with this objective and hope that it will lead to recognised qualifications. It should be noted, however, that access to continuing training for health professionals requires time, which now appears to be complicated in a context where staff are struggling to perform their care tasks, owing to the shortage of staff and austerity policies at the public hospital. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups as well as on several benches of the MODEM and IUD-Agir groups]] We therefore expect this debate to allow us to go as far as possible to address the concerns of families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u24	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u25	"In the fight against cancer, we must not only gather all available energies but also know how to organize them and articulate them with relevance." These words were delivered at the ARC Foundation Award Ceremony on April 5, 2018. These words are yours, minister. As we begin to examine our colleague Nathalie Elimas' proposal for a law on the management of paediatric cancers, I would like to believe that these words take on a special resonance for each and every one of us, regardless of our place in the Chamber. With the debate we have on this so painful, so urgent issue, we are given the opportunity to collectively do useful work and to provide concrete answers to give everyone, everywhere in France, the same opportunity to cure cancer. For the Libertés et Territoires group, the excellence of our health care system can only be measured by its ability to ensure equitable access to quality care and therapeutic innovation. This is, moreover, the philosophy of the cancer plan 2014-2019, whose priority is to reduce inequalities and loss of chance, and to develop innovative medicines. Like all of you here, members of our group are acutely aware of the gravity of the subject. Some 350,000 new cases of cancer are reported each year, of which 2,500 to 3500 children are involved; 400 to 500 die from this terrible disease, making it the second leading cause of death for children under 15 years of age. Behind these figures, we know, they are lives that, in a second, turn into despair; They are overwhelmed families to which medical teams are forced to announce that there is no treatment for their child's disease; They are hundreds of children who fight with dignity and courage to live. We are all aware that disease is always a tragedy, no matter how old it is. We also know that this tragedy gives rise to extraordinary emotion when it touches children. You know as well, Madam rapporteur, for having met and listened at length to representatives of patient associations, such as Imagine for Margo, Wonder Augustine, the National Union of Parents' Associations of Children with Cancer or Leukemia, UNAPECLE, and the National Union of Parents' Associations, Mentally Disabled Persons and their Friends, UNAPEI. We meet, ourselves, in our permanences, concerned people – I have, at this moment, a thought for Sandrine and for the association Timéo our hero, Timéo, little boy left to join the stars at the dawn of his seven years. Yes, seeing a child leave before his or her parents is probably the greatest of all injustices, an injustice against which all of us stand up and protest. Yet, as our colleague Nathalie Elimas has shown, we can and must do better in the fight against pediatric cancers, and more particularly in three aspects. The first is the funding of the resources allocated to research in paediatric cancerology, which are probably still insufficient, despite recent advances made during the examination of the 2019 finance bill. Above all, the question must be asked of the coordination between the intervention of the many actors, public or private, in the financing of research in cancerology, paediatric or general. This issue is crucial since it is intrinsically linked to the ability of different actors to pool resources, gather the best expertise and accelerate research on rare cancers. This is the purpose of Article 1 of the text, which allows the drawing up of a plan setting out the broad guidelines for cancer research, which will make it possible to specify the resources devoted to research on paediatric cancers. In addition, section 2 aims to facilitate the participation of children and adolescents in clinical trials. I would like to thank you, Madam rapporteur, for having responded precisely to the concerns I had raised in committee on this matter. The second aspect that we need to look at carefully is the role of family members and health care professionals in dealing with child disease. In the face of the profound upheaval of a child's cancer in the daily lives of his or her relatives, the existing arrangements, which enable parents to obtain parental leave from their employer so that they can be with their sick child and the daily parental attendance allowance, are not sufficient answers. The length of leave and allowance, which is currently three hundred and ten days, is not adapted to the cancer pathologies of children who are living longer and longer with their illness and treatment, sometimes several years, from relapse to relapse. It should be extended and our group supports this measure provided for in Article 3. There is also a need for better training of health professionals who, despite their commitment, skills, humanity and listening to them, are sometimes deprived when it comes to announcing a diagnosis, taking care of the pain of children, or carrying out their psychological follow-up. In this respect, territorial inequalities are striking, and it is therefore necessary to move towards the obligation of continuing training of nurses and medical personnel throughout the territory. Article 4, which provides for such a mechanism, has been removed in committee and our group will naturally propose its re-establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u27	I come to the last point on which there is an urgent need to move forward: we must allow children who have been diagnosed with cancer not to remain trapped in this disease forever. To this end, Article 5 provides for the improvement of the right to be forgotten, so that former cancer patients are not penalized by the obstacles they face today to take out insurance or to make a loan, and that they can enter a new life on their own. For the Libertés et Territoires Group, this is an essential step forward, perhaps the most important of this bill, and we can only regret its abolition in committee by the La République on the move. By re-establishing this provision, we would only fulfil a commitment made by Emmanuel Macron during his campaign, a commitment that is urgently needed, because any renunciation of this point would lead to a terrible incomprehension. I am pleased to note that all the groups today support the re-establishment of Article 5. The Libertés et Territoires Group will also defend an amendment to that effect, and this House would be honoured to adopt it. Our group will make two proposals to enrich the text. The first is to amend the title of the bill, to refer to the care of children with cancer rather than paediatric cancers. The aim is to avoid a generic term and to describe precisely what is being said, by explicitly referring to those who are affected by this disease: children. The second proposal is to make the fight against child cancer a major national cause in 2019. Our group believes that this struggle must be one of the main causes which, beyond political sensitivities, partisan divisions and alternations, should be one of the main causes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, MODEM, SOC and GDR groups]] The provisions of this bill are essential to accompany the dynamics of the cancer plan and to enable research into children's cancers to take advantage of the considerable progress made in the fight against this disease. The prospects for therapeutic progress are most promising and the stakes are immense for children and adolescents affected by cancer. It is more than time to act by voting on the bill proposed by Nathalie Elimas and the MODEM group. The Libertés et Territoire Group will support it unreservedly in order to enable concrete progress to be made in favour of the children affected by this tragedy and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u30	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u31	Many of us, from all political sides, have been approached by researchers, associations, families or health professionals about pediatric cancers. I would like to recall that this issue was very quickly mobilised by the Members of the LaREM Group as well as those of all the groups present here. It's a fight that affects us all, because it's about fighting injustice: a child's disease, sometimes his or her death. Some heal, others do not, and all the causes of these cancers are poorly explained. The finding is terrible. We all see what these pathologies represent that can hit our children or grandchildren. These are 500 deaths per year, in France, for 2500 new cases. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with this situation; It obliges us to transcend divisions in order to advance collectively. This ambitious text, we mean to co-build it by proposing changes. It will in no way be a successful outcome, but it will be an important and expected legislative step. It proposes essential tools such as consultation between the various actors with a strategy set for ten years. This heading will give visibility to researchers, who will be able to invest better because they will also be better supported financially. Thus, during the examination of the finance bill, an amendment was unanimously passed on the financing of research, particularly in paediatric cancerology. This is proof that such a subject can bring together all political forces. Five million euros per year will be spent on mobilising and coordinating the best teams of researchers, whether they are involved in different scientific fields around paediatric cancers or in basic research. This has given great progress, for example immunotherapy or CAR-T cells applied to paediatric cancerology. In addition to research, which is an essential link, the bill deals with other topics, such as accompanying the child and his or her family. We will also propose an important amendment on the extension of the right to be forgotten, which will make it possible to keep a promise from the President of the Republic. However, since the associations have explained to us that this right to be forgotten is sometimes very poorly applied, we have asked in committee for an evaluation, because we want the right to be forgotten to be real. In implementing the cancer plan, the National Cancer Institute can count on the important involvement of family associations. I wish to pay tribute to them. These associations play a major role in supporting children and their families, in administrative procedures and in psychological support. They are also real health partners. Modern medicine must be practiced at each of these levels with patient associations, particularly in cancerology. We still face many challenges: if 80 per cent of children with cancer heal, we need to focus on the so-called incurable 20 per cent. This is a major issue. We will need to ensure fair access to treatment, access to innovative therapies. In addition, we need to evaluate our devices to improve them. The 2014-2019 cancer plan will be evaluated, and we will be attentive to it. To complete this bill, regulatory provisions will have to be made – we have discussed it, Madam Minister – such as training on pediatric cancers and follow-up consultations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I would like to point out that the fight against cancers of children and young people is also a European challenge, given the 6000 deaths a year. The European Union also intends to take action to eradicate paediatric cancer. Through its Horizon Europe programme, it intends to stimulate research to make it a research of excellence not only at Member State level but also at global level. This European level is relevant, if only to have sufficient cohorts, for example in the field of clinical trials. Europe is thus an indispensable ally in the fight against paediatric cancer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u32	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u33	The bill we are considering this morning has an ambition that I want to welcome, both cancer, and especially pediatric cancer, deserves our full support. It is a great challenge that calls us to action and humility. As Antoine de Saint-Exupéry so well said: "The impossible always recedes when we walk towards him". That is why, on every bench, we have only this one and the same objective: to do everything possible to reduce the pediatric cancers and the mortality of which they are the cause. Recently, we fought for more resources in the Finance Committee – I would like to greet our colleague Eric Woerth – in the Social Affairs Committee and in the Chamber, where the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation announced one evening at 5 a.m. that the Government was allocating an additional €5 million to research. Minister, we also know your determination, your skills and your struggle in this area. Associations, often created by parents of deceased children, regularly appeal to us. They support some research projects, but they do not have the necessary resources, and they must not replace the state. Many stakeholders agreed on the imperative creation of a fund dedicated to research on cancers and incurable diseases of children, with between 15 and 20 million euros per year – a recommendation issued in 2016 in a report submitted by Martine Faure on behalf of the study group on oncopediatric cancers. The Government's support is essential to create a fund for the development of basic research programmes, so as not to allow researchers too much time and effort to seek funding for their own work. We are all fighting for an increase in budgets, for more researchers, for more results. Little Augustine, who died of a glioma infiltrating the brain stem at four years old, reminds us hard that the fight against pediatric cancer must be the object of constant efforts. His parents and so many other parents had to deal with an incurable and inoperable disease that took away their daughter, their son, in just a few months. Their daily lives are trying and moving; We need to react and understand the fighting that families are waging. The statistics already set out deserve to be hammered: one child in 440 develops cancer before the age of fifteen; Every year, in France, a diagnosis of cancer is made for nearly 2500 children and adolescents; Nearly 500 of them will die, and this figure has not declined in the last fifteen years. This represents the equivalent of nearly twenty school classes that die each year as a result of cancer or leukemia. The situation is particularly critical for some specific childhood cancers, such as neuroblastomas, nephroblastomas, hepatoblastomas, certain sarcomas, or brain stem tumours that are very poorly treated. Child cancer is therefore an important health issue, but also a European social issue. In Europe, 35,000 children and adolescents are diagnosed with cancer every year, with some 6,000 deaths. As in France, in Europe, paediatric cancers are the leading cause of death among children by disease, and the second after accidents. While there are more than 60 types of paediatric cancers, research focuses primarily on adult cancers. Malignant tumours detected in children are not of the same nature as adult tumours; Therefore, they cannot treat themselves in the same way. The same applies to care, which must be adapted to the age of the patients. Children's cancers do not resemble those of adults, they deserve special treatment. First, they are rarer and less numerous. One third of paediatric cancers do not exist in adults and, conversely, more than 80% of adult cancers do not occur in paediatrics. We know the causes of these cancers are different. Major adult cancers, which affect the lungs, breast or prostate, may be related to tobacco or alcohol abuse and poor diets. Unlike adult cancers, therefore, it is not through behavioural prevention policies that the prevalence of paediatric cancer can be reduced. In the face of these particularities and its figures, the lack of resources allocated to research contributes to the formation of a vicious circle contributing to the maintenance of such statistics: few budgets, few researchers, few results. Between 1970 and the early 2000s, children and adolescents with cancer benefited from the treatments initially developed for adults. While their survival rate is about 70% over 10 years, this rate of recovery is slow despite many international clinical trials. The current efforts are still insufficient and the significant progress made in the fight against cancer in recent years has been of very little benefit to children. In particular, they do not yet have access to innovative therapies as they should. For the most child-specific cancers, life expectancy is sometimes zero and has not improved for more than 30 years. In addition, the therapies currently proposed are not always adapted to such young organizations. It is estimated that two thirds of the cured children will subsequently have sequelae of their treatment. Therefore, without the enhanced research for which we are fighting, it is impossible to develop appropriate treatments thanks to a better understanding of paediatric cancers. I want to pay tribute to the doctors, researchers and laboratories who work admirably, as well as to all the professionals in our services, our hospitals, our clinics. All Governments have been concerned about this issue. Already, under the leadership of President Jacques Chirac, France had, for the first time in 2004, adopted a cancer plan aimed at improving the fight against the disease and at better caring for patients and their families. Two other cancer plans were put in place, in 2009, under the chairmanship of Nicolas Sarkozy, and in 2014, under the presidency of François Hollande. This third cancer plan, covering the period 2014-2019, continues. Progress is undeniable, and France is today one of the world's leaders in the fight against cancer thanks to the talent of its researchers, the dynamism of its associations, and the will of the public authorities, which must not weaken and which must even strengthen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to make a strong gesture for this cause. We need to move from words to deeds and send a strong signal to children who are cancer victims, to their families, to their doctors and to all health professionals who are in contact with these children. All of these people need our support, our help, our support. For my part, I invite the Government to declare the fight against pediatric cancer a major national cause for 2019. It would be a commitment that would bring us together. Madam rapporteur, the bill we are considering deserves our support. This is a good initiative, which must be encouraged and which we cannot postpone. It tries to provide real answers to the problems of the care of children's cancer, subjects that have long been identified: research funding, support for family caregivers, training of professionals, right to be forgotten – which must be improved and adapted. We cannot be satisfied with a minimum level of care for these children and adolescents. The issue of accompaniment is of paramount importance, which is why I welcome the provisions of this text aimed at ensuring an adequate framework for care during the disease, but also for the future and for the future. Cancer is a trauma for the patient, but also for those close to them who suffer the full consequences of the disease and must be able to benefit from specific psychological and social support. For example, they often suffer loss of income when they decline or even stop working. Article 1 of the draft law assigns a new task to INCa and establishes an obligation to negotiate with research actors in order to achieve a minimum level of public investment for paediatric research. Creating stakeholder coordination and a five-year plan is an interesting idea; This will make it possible to organise financing more permanently and to increase leverage through dialogue between public authorities and private actors. The important thing is to share a clear vision of what we can expect from research. That is the meaning of Article 1. Article 2 proposes lowering the minimum age of 18 years currently required for clinical trials. I do not hide from you, Madam rapporteur, that I am more concerned about this subject, even though I understand all the reasons for such a provision. Article 3 seeks to link the AJPP to the actual duration of the disease and not to a lump sum. This is therefore a particularly commendable step forward. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] We shall return to Articles 4 and 5, because we regret some of the substantial changes made by the committee. Perhaps the amendments will make it possible to re-establish certain provisions that have been deleted. On this point, I mean my incomprehension to colleagues in the majority: why did you decide to delete some interesting articles? Progress on paediatric cancers is slow and requires that we encourage them today. Let us never forget that children expect us to make a difference. That is why we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u34	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u35	Progress is undeniable and France today ranks fourth in the world in the fight against cancer thanks to the talent of its researchers, the dynamism of its associations and the will of the public authorities. However, out of the 400,000 cases of cancer reported each year in France, there are 2,500 children and adolescents, including 500 deaths each year. Many actions have been undertaken to improve the quality of care and access to innovation. I will stress the need for better support for sick children, both during and after the illness. Post-cancer is too often neglected, so that patients talk about emptiness and abandonment. The promise of better days for these children at the dawn of their lives, even as they have subjected the enemy, must be accompanied and kept. It's about their mental and psychic balance. In the context of budgetary restrictions, in this period of discussion of the finance bill, I welcome the Government's decision to allocate an additional €5 million each year, starting in 2019, to research on paediatric cancers. This is a remarkable decision with hope. I also support the desire of the two co-chairs of the cancer study group to entrust INCa with the development, jointly with the State and in coordination with all relevant actors, of a ten-year strategy for the fight against cancer. This plan will focus not only on research, but on all the problems in the fight against cancer. The time for research is a long time, and this is all the more true in the case of paediatric cancers. We are talking about rare diseases, which are often very different from adult cancers, and for which more specific research must be carried out. They can justify specific clinical trials on innovative molecules, targeted therapies or immunotherapy. The Act very precisely regulates the conditions under which minors may be solicited for clinical research, but its interpretation is frequently restrictive. Refusal of applications for testing may be harmful to sick children. The relaxation of the restriction in cases of paediatric cancer, supported by parents' associations and oncologists, will remove unnecessary barriers so that sick children can use innovative treatments as soon as possible. The occurrence of cancer in a child is a family tragedy that must be accompanied by national solidarity. A daily allowance, the AJPP, is paid to the parent so that he can take care of his child without loss of major income. The AJPP must evolve and be more flexible. I welcome the progress of the bill on this subject. In children, consideration of pain is paramount, because it is unacceptable, unbearable, intolerable. It is present during treatment, and can then last for many years. Suffering can have a strong impact on the child's development and mental construction. Its care and psychological accompaniment are essential. Pain is currently not sufficiently measured and considered. Two thirds of people suffer from sequelae from cancer or treatment. Only 7% of people with cancer meet a pain specialist. I therefore welcome the decision to submit a report to Parliament on its management, which may lead to a fourth pain plan. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Isabelle Florennes also applauds]] Finally, the right to be forgotten is a remarkable step forward. It is a campaign promise of the President of the Republic to generalize it to five years for all. That would be a strong step. These young people on the path of healing have the right, like their comrades, to plan for the future; They too should be able to borrow if they need it or if they want it. The right to be forgotten would require consultation with all stakeholders to ensure their adherence. At present, its implementation is not respected and that is regrettable. I can therefore only agree with the request for an evaluation of the AERAS Convention in order to guarantee access to credit for people with a serious health problem, in particular young people who have had paediatric cancer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u36	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u37	In France, every year, hundreds of children and adolescents see their lives and that of their families change because they are affected by cancer, a real scourge that causes the death of too many children when they are not yet five years old. Of course, compared to the 400,000 adults with cancer each year, it could be said that the 2500 cancers that affect children and adolescents are marginal diseases. But they are not so much because medicine and research allow us today to identify more than sixty kinds of childhood cancer and that one in 440 children is affected – one in 440 children! On such a subject, a broad consensus should have been established normally and naturally. Unfortunately, that is not the case. In her explanatory statement, the bill quotes you, Madam Minister, when you stated in July 2017 that "it is not possible in a society for children to be treated less well and accompanied less well than adults." But here I would like to recall what happened a few days ago, and which has stifled more than one in and out of this House. While we were discussing the social security funding bill, we were denied the increase in the envelope allocated to paediatric cancer research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u39	When doctors and researchers claimed 18 million dollars, the government and your majority preferred to vote for an envelope of 5 million dollars, certainly unanimously – better than what was originally planned – but, I must remind you, an envelope voted by default! My colleague, Descamps, reminded us a few moments ago that this lack of ambition in research against pediatric cancers is, unfortunately, pushing a growing number of families to seek solutions abroad, especially hope for the recovery of their children, which is sometimes lacking in France. A climax! A few moments ago, on an information channel, a "yellow vest"...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u40	BFM of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u41	... expressed his indignation at this lack of means for paediatric cancers: "Inadmissible," he said. Another new subject of incomprehension. And that is normal, because the Government's choices are a question. At the same time, as our colleague Olivier Faure reminded us, Mr Blanquer, Minister of National Education, reserved EUR 20 million for his Choir Plan, "only for colleges", he said; Or, in this period of budgetary crisis, former Socialist MP René Dosière pointed to an increase of about 27% in the salaries of employees of some ministers. You often repeat it on the benches of the majority, you make political choices. Unfortunately, we can see which ones! How can we justify cutting research funding to combat pediatric cancers and, at the same time, releasing EUR 2 million to publicise and disseminate a new concept, the "Matrimony", in the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", more than EUR 40 million for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, EUR 935 million for state medical aid, EUR 2.5 billion for indirect aid to the press, and I am passing on? You yourself say this in the explanatory memorandum to your bill, the rapporteur: "We can no longer accept that children are the last to have access to therapeutic innovations and researchers are unanimous on the need to step up their work on paediatric cancers, in order to find child-friendly treatments. So, a little consistency! The bill put forward by our MODEM colleagues, before he went to committee, was innovative – it was the least we could do for our children and adolescents affected by cancer. What remains after examination in committee? Nothing or almost anything! Removed training activities aimed at improving the care of children by medical staff and family caregivers; deleted also article 5 in its original wording, which proposed that the right to be forgotten for a minor should also apply to the adult up to twenty-one years. Instead, proposals for reports, that your majority is always so quick to refuse when the opposition asks for them, but that you accept easily when it allows you to kick in. In short, a text that is singularly lacking ambition. On a subject of this importance, which affects our children, it is simply a terrible injustice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u42	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u43	The evocation of cancer is inexorably a source of intense anxiety. "We know we're going to die but we don't believe in it," said philosopher Vladimir Janklevich. The word is itself almost taboo. We know we're going to die, but we don't know when. And it's even harder to think about death when we talk about children. The third cancer plan will be completed in 2019. The subject of pediatric cancers is regularly on our political agenda, and many of us are being approached by associations. We discussed this issue in the Social Affairs Committee last September, again during the examination of the 2019 finance bill, and it comes back this week and next week with the bills of our colleagues MODEM and UDI-Agir. Thank you, rapporteur, for introducing this bill and allowing us to talk again about pediatric cancers. Reference INCa to the Committee on Social Affairs and a member of its Board of Directors, I have a particular interest in this text, particularly on its research aspect. When we auditioned Professor Norbert Ifrah, president of INCa, on September 19, he had to answer a lot of questions about pediatric cancers, and he called for attention to be paid to the gap between discourse and reality: there are 1,700 paediatric cancers in France and 800 adolescent cancers, i.e. a total of 2500; Today, 80 per cent of patients are cured, compared to only 60 per cent only 15 years ago. There are certainly refractory cancers, still too common in France, in particular tumors of the central nervous system and of the brain stem. The tools that exist in the world have made it impossible to make progress on these cancers anywhere. We should not, however, suggest that we are lagging behind other countries. France is even rather identified as a dynamic on paediatric cancers. In the current cancer plan, which the Minister should be congratulated on when she was president of INCa, the ambition is on paediatric cancers. For example, research places dedicated to access to innovative medicines have been created, as well as the Paediatric Ac-Sé research project or the PAIR programme – an integrated research action programme – designed to improve the quality of life of patients. However, despite the efforts made and the progress made in recent years, we cannot remain deaf to the concerns of the associations. Article 1, in its new wording, makes it possible to secure and strengthen the coordination of stakeholders in the definition of a new strategy. This includes putting our cancer strategy on a long-term basis. This is important for paediatric cancers, the low number of which requires strong international and European coordination. CNIB has been doing a great job since its inception in 2005 – I don't say it because I am a referent, I really think – and I have the opportunity to congratulate it on the national representation. But we see that there is a real issue of informing citizens and parliamentarians about the funds and resources deployed. That is why I am sensitive to the inquiry of our colleague Jean-François Eliaou, who is asking for the presence of two MPs and two senators on CNIB's board of directors. Its officials, including its president, are aware of the necessary visibility of their work and of the need for transparency vis-à-vis national representation. I do not forget the importance of family support and cancer care, but I would like to take a moment to talk about the right to be forgotten. My life course has confronted me and still confronts me. It is not a question of displaying personal elements, but I can measure the risk of stigmatization and the consequences of it. This is a serious, serious problem, because when one heals cancer, the prospect of difficulties in getting a loan after the disease can sound like a double penalty and weighs on the future: how can one embark on life and build projects when the phantom of the disease remains and cannot be borrowed before the age of 30? This problem remains complex, but was nevertheless incorporated into our legislation in 2016. However, it remains complicated and, before the law changes firmly, it appears necessary to have reliable statistical data and to address it through negotiations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, I note that we all agree that child cancer is unbearable. Yes, we must always push to do more, yes, we must always better accompany families. But we cannot say that France is not dynamic in this area, particularly in research. Let us trust the CNIB, whose performance is no longer to be proved and is unanimously recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u44	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u45	I would like to thank the speakers of the groups, but also especially you, Madam Minister. I have no doubt and have never doubted your full commitment on this subject, let alone your willingness to move forward. However, in your speech, you raised two objections, relating to articles 2 and 4, saying, inter alia, that the wording of article 2 might reduce the protection that surrounds children. I, too, am very sensitive to this issue and I can assure you that in no way does the current wording call into question this protection, quite the contrary. It is not proposed to touch the custody of parents' express consent or the existing legal framework. As for Article 4 on the training of health workers, which was rejected by the Committee on Social Affairs and which I am trying to restore today, it is clear that the institutions have competent staff. It is not an insult to them, simply, it appears from the various hearings that we have conducted that, in particular with regard to the treatment of pain and psychological follow-up, there is now a deficiency. And that is what I want to remedy. I would also like to thank all the speakers in the groups for their almost unanimous support for this text. I regret, however, that Mrs Descamps said that Article 1 lacked ambition. I do not agree with you, my dear colleague, and not just because I am the rapporteur. This article provides a framework for the coordination and development of a strategy. Again, it emerged from the hearings that it was really expected. Moreover, it has an ambition because it is complementary to the Government's amendment voted a few days ago, which abounds with €5 million in funding for paediatric cancer research. It can be said, like you, that this is not enough, but I believe that a step has been taken. I regret that you have used these words, even if I hear your philosophy. In conclusion, because we have little time, I would like to share with you a quote, which I particularly appreciate, from Pythagoras: "A man is never so great as when he is on his knees at the feet of a child. [[Applause on all benches]] It is in this spirit of humility and unity, far away – far away – from the political divisions that I really want to see us debate today, in order to build together a solution that, at the end of this session, is – because they really deserve it – satisfying for all our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u46	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u47	What I remember from what the rapporteur has just said is that we all share the desire to do better on these benches. What can possibly distinguish us is the means to achieve this. We will have the opportunity, on each article and on each amendment, to set out our views. But it would be a shame to make it a political debate: there is not a group, not a deputy, not a member of the government – not a political leader, in fact – who wants to do better in the fight against pediatric cancers. Therefore, it is irresponsible to claim that this is a political fight that we refuse to lead – especially I who, in a way, have spent my life doing this. The discussion we will have is technical, not political. It can be summed up as follows: how can we improve the texts so that we can do better in this field? We all want to do better. Therefore, by giving the debate a political tone, we would be next to the plaque. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I do not want to monopolize the floor: the examination of each article will give me the opportunity to give the reasons that led me to take positions different from those of the rapporteur or some of you. Let us recognize, however, that 100 per cent of policy makers want to improve the situation of these children and families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u48	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u49	I ask for a suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u50	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u51	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u52	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u53	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u54	Madam Minister, contrary to what you have just said, it is a political debate, as far as public affairs are concerned, the issues that are being debated in the opinion. During this discussion, we will not, of course, oppose humanly unbearable arguments; We share, of course, the same approach and the same objectives, namely to effectively combat this terrible disease. That being said, we can foster differences of appreciation as to the means to be devoted to this fight and to the organization to be adopted. For a long time, successive governments have been using an unfortunate method of devitalizing Parliament's proposals. This has been the case with some of the articles of this proposal – I am not talking about Article 1. This is regrettable, because there is not, on the one hand, those who know – the Government – and those who do not know, in other words, the parliamentarians, who represent the French. The proposals contained in this text must, in my view, be voted in their entirety. You are aware that we have already held this debate in the Chamber some 15 days ago, which has made it possible to unblock the situation or, in any case, to change things together – not against each other. I consider that we have not gone far enough, even if we may not share this view. No small steps can be taken on this subject; It's better to try to make big spans. It is a necessity, and it does not cost much to try it. If we got results, it would be absolutely extraordinary. We must be able to do it. In any case, this debate does not go far enough. The proposal under discussion is complementary to the debate we have had on research appropriations. We must continue to increase the appropriations for basic research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u55	Thank you, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u56	We also need to better identify funds for paediatric cancers...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u57	Please close, Mr. Woerth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... and put in place a plan dedicated to paediatric cancers. Parliament must be able to control the current appropriations for the fight against these cancers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u59	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u60	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] First of all, I would like to thank the MODEM Group, in particular our rapporteur, for presenting the work on the profession. We discussed this issue in the budget debate, and previously, in November 2014, at the initiative of your servant and the Union of Democrats and Independents Group. Of course I do not doubt the intention of each other, but I totally disagree with what you have just said, Madam Minister: it is not a technical debate but a political one. Politics is not a dirty thing, but, on the contrary, very noble. You are making a political choice, with which we may disagree. I, in turn, regret that the text presented by our rapporteur has been emasculated, in particular in Articles 4 and 5, contrary to the commitment of the President of the Republic. The question is – this is the subject of my intervention on this article – how we respond to the demands of patients, families, researchers. The latter tell us that they would like to carry out research on some rare cancer, but that the laboratories are not interested in it, for lack of economic profitability, and that the budget appropriations for public research are insufficient. We cannot answer them that the INCa will sort out, which would mean unburdening us of our mission on technicians. This mission, from my point of view, is simple: to ensure that no one is objected to that there is no specific drug suitable for paediatric cancer because no attempt has been made to develop it, for lack of means. I'm not trying intent. I simply note that the public authorities refuse to allocate EUR 20 million to this research – because that is what this is about – while the country's budget exceeds EUR 400 billion. It does not support work that economic logic discourages laboratories from doing, and I believe this is a mistake. I do not make a moral accusation, let alone a moral accusation against you, Madam Minister, but I think society is wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u61	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group, on a few benches of the MODEM, LT and LR groups and among the non-attached MPs]] We discussed this subject four years ago, and today we hear the same objections, for reasons that still seem to me to be so out of step with reality. Unfortunately, I am aware, given my little experience of this assembly, that it takes time to convince. We will have this debate again next week, and this subject will eventually get into the minds of people who oppose a simple principle: a sick child has the right to seek medicine to treat his or her disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u63	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u64	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the mission of the National Cancer Institute in terms of defining and implementing the future cancer strategy, and hence its research lines. It is intended to replace the words "Developing, jointly with the State and" with the word "Proposal" and to replace the words "piloting" with the words "implementing". In fact, INCa is an operator of the State, placed under its supervision and responsible for advising it. The latter, who is the financer, is the only legitimate means of validating and piloting a national strategy. The INCa, which has scientific competence, is on its part perfectly in its role when it comes to making proposals, especially since its mission includes the coordination of all actors, including those involved in charitable research – I am thinking of the League against Cancer or the ARC Foundation. This is what the Institute does on a daily basis as an operator: make proposals and facilitate their implementation. For its part, the State ensures that a strategy is adopted that is consistent with the national research strategy, the priorities defined by the European programmes, the national health strategy, the "prevention priority" plan, the strategy for the transformation of the health system, which today constitute the framework for health policy in France. This strategy, which will be adopted by decree, will obviously be based on the INCa proposals, but also on the results of the evaluation of the third cancer plan, applied from 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u66	With this amendment, Madam Minister, you want to go back to the wording of Article 1 of the draft law, as adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs. With regard to the deletion of the words "jointly with the State", I understand your argument: the INCa is in any case under the tutelage of the State. It is also true that it is difficult to put them on the same level. However, it was better when writing it. On the other hand, the deletion of the word "development" does not seem to me to be a consequence, because a proposal presupposes that there has been a prior elaboration. Finally, you propose to replace the word "pilot" with the word "implementation", which is consistent with the status of the INCa agency and its role as an executing agency. I will therefore give a favourable opinion on this amendment. Although I have some regrets about the presence of the word "state," I understand the philosophy that inspires it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u67	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u68	Madam Minister, your arguments have convinced us. We will follow the rapporteur's opinion and vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u69	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u70	Madam Minister, technically, legistically, you are absolutely right. It is, of course, up to the Government to outline this strategy. But you are proving, by the way, that this is a political choice. INCa, it is the technicians who advise you, while the Government makes a political choice. We will make proposals to you to obtain certain guarantees. Minister, everyone has reason to believe in your will, given your background and your convictions. But I regret to announce that you will have successors, who, imitating your predecessors, will not necessarily share your choices. We therefore hope that there will be political will. INCa must advise, but it is up to a minister in Parliament to decide how we allocate and how we allocate them to fight pediatric cancer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u71	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u72	We welcome, of course, the Government's recent decision to increase budgetary allocations for research into paediatric cancers. Similarly, we welcome Article 1, which aims to promote the coordination of actors with a view to developing a strategy. With this amendment, we would like to delete the words "public and private operators in cancerology" in paragraph 2, and INCa remains the driver of the coordination of this strategy; On the other hand, after the words "users of the health system" – the last occurrence of the word "and" being deleted – we suggest inserting the words ", associations of parents of sick children, drug manufacturers, public and private research foundations and all" [other persons concerned]. We consider it very important to mention all stakeholders, including parents' associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u74	As I had the opportunity to remind you in committee, the INCa's constituent committee already has many internal bodies, involving many professionals, parents' associations, foundations, national and international experts. The current wording seems to me to fully satisfy your concerns. That is why I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u76	It is INCa's DNA to have all stakeholders work together. There is no text, not a strategy that is not developed with all of them. The fundamental mission of this institute is indeed to coordinate the action of all the actors. Your proposal is, to a certain extent, restrictive with regard to what the INCa does: you do not mention actors such as health professionals or hospital federations. In fact, the more stakeholders are mentioned, the more limited is the ability of INCa to work with all of them. The representatives of the patients, the associations are in fact always involved in the elaboration of the actions of the institute. It is therefore better, in my view, to avoid indicating with whom we are designing the strategy, so as not to restrict the scope of its collaborations. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, I'd be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u77	Mrs Pouzyreff, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u78	I understand what has just been said, but the word "parents" is not in the text, so I wish to maintain the amendment, even though it is under-amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u79	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u80	For the reasons set out by our rapporteur and by the minister, we will not vote for the amendment. Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the absence of additional budgetary resources, INCa will be led, pursuant to Article 1, to arbitrate between research against paediatric cancers and the fight against cancers affecting adults. From this point of view, the amendment has the virtue of inviting parents' associations to sit around the table: they are today by the will of the INCa, but the law should clarify this point. The amendment is not appropriate, however, because it would have the effect of evacuating other actors in the reflection carried out by INCa. That being said, Madam Minister, you could make a commitment that the presence of parents' associations be guaranteed – if necessary, by tabling an amendment to that effect during the parliamentary shuttle. If you don't, the financial arbitrage intended to distribute a constraint envelope between paediatric cancers and those reaching adults may be at the expense of children, as the former are rarer and require more public research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u81	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u82	Having never worked at INCa, I do not know how it works every day and how it works, and I trust you, minister, on this point. Nevertheless, I would like you to make it clear that parents will be involved in defining a strategy to combat childhood cancer. Similarly, private research must also be part of this reflection, despite the competition between laboratories, and it is important that you say so here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u83	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u84	I am very sensitive to the presence of the parents – I work very much with the associations that represent them – but it must be recognised that drawing up the list of stakeholders would have the effect of excluding all those who are not mentioned. We must avoid making the law too restrictive, especially since the practice of INCa is on the contrary very open. It is also important for the Institute to include the drug industry, which must be involved in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u85	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u86	The drafting of the article is broad: the more we clarify it, the more will be forced the consultation conducted by the INCa. Rest assured, Mr. Lagarde, Mr. Woerth, there are representatives of users and patients in each INCa working group, this presence being part of his organization. For example, all research funding panels include associations of patients such as the National Union of Parents' Associations of Children with Cancer or Leukemia, UNAPECLE, for paediatric cancers. Too much precision in the drafting of the article would have the effect of preventing INCa from collecting advice useful for the implementation of the cancer control strategy. The Institute's progress report lists the associations involved and the number of working groups in which they participate: I repeat, there is not one of these working groups that does not include patient representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u87	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u88	Following the very constructive discussions that have just taken place, I withdraw the amendment, hoping that the words of the parents will be heard even better at INCa.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u89	You have the floor, Mrs Pouzyreff, to support Amendment No 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u90	As the control of public policies is part of Parliament's remit, the amendment calls for Parliament to receive an annual report assessing the relevance of the cancer strategy, so that the legislator can make any necessary budgetary adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u92	According to the terms of your amendment, Member, the INCa Science Council should assess annually the relevance of the 10-year strategy in a report submitted to Parliament, so that Parliament can make adjustments if necessary. First of all, the INCa constitutive agreement already provides that the Scientific Council shall ensure the coherence of the Institute's scientific and medical policy. Secondly, it would be difficult for Parliament to adjust a strategy to the definition of which it does not participate, even though our colleague Mr Eliaou's amendment, which we will be considering in a moment, would be adopted. For these two reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u94	My opinion is also unfavorable. I understand the meaning of your request, but the INCa Scientific Council is made up of twenty qualified personalities from all over the world – a Nobel Prize in medicine for a very long time. They come twice a year to evaluate the Institute's scientific strategy and to make recommendations, made public on the INCa website and often the subject of a press release. We would find it difficult to convince these scientists from around the world, who spend three or four days a year evaluating a scientific strategy, to write a report to Parliament. This amendment does not seem relevant to me, so I ask you to withdraw it; Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u95	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Pouzyreff?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u96	I withdraw it after what has just been said and in view of the consideration of my colleague Eliaou's amendment, with a view to having parliamentarians sit on the INCa's board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u97	Mr Jean-François Eliaou, in support of Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u98	This appeal amendment proposes to include parliamentarians on the INCa Board of Directors, in order to monitor and evaluate the Institute's work in general and its activities in the fight against paediatric cancer in particular. The number of members selected, two members and two senators, is justified by the current composition of this board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u100	Your proposal would be in line with a law that we passed on August 3rd, which aims to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside Parliament and to simplify the way in which they are appointed. Parliamentarians are now present on only a few boards of directors. In this respect, your amendment corrects a damaging oversight. The committee gave him a favourable opinion, which I share.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u102	Jean-François Eliaou's amendment – I almost called him a colleague, because we were in another time – is a good idea. When I was chairing CNIB, I had asked a senator to sit on the Institute's board of directors because I found that there was a lack of connection with parliamentarians. Parliamentarians sit in all health agencies, and the same goes for INCa. On the other hand, a quota of four parliamentarians would be excessive. This could unbalance the composition of the INCa Board of Directors, a forum for discussion that includes, in addition to eight qualified personalities, representatives of the major research bodies and those of the State. However, the State must remain the majority in the management of this operator, since it finances more than 90% of the €90 million in its budget. I suggest that you correct the amendment in order to reduce to a Member of Parliament and a Senator the presence of parliamentarians on the board of directors, which would be more reasonable. The balance of the council would be preserved, but Parliament would have the means to better understand its functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u103	The correction of the amendment would therefore be to replace, on two occasions, the word "two" with "one". Mr Eliaou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u104	I accept the proposed rectification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u105	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u106	The absenteeism of parliamentarians may exist,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u107	[[Smile]] Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u108	... providing for the presence of two members of Parliament and two senators would ensure that at least one representative of each assembly was present at the meetings of the board of directors. We could therefore appoint a holder and an alternate, so that the former could be replaced by the latter. Otherwise, meetings would very often be held without parliamentarians, which would be a shame. On the other hand, I ask myself: will parliamentarians have the right to vote on the same basis as other members of the board of directors or will they only be there as observers and to carry out their monitoring tasks? In any event, since we are attentive to the work of the INCa, it is essential that parliamentarians be present, like the representatives that the Speaker of each assembly already appoints in certain bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u109	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u110	We support the amendment and our colleague's proposal: it may indeed be necessary to appoint alternates in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Board of Directors – in order to achieve a quorum, for example. The LaREM Group will therefore vote in favour of adopting this corrected amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u111	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u112	Parliamentarians have every place in defining the major choices of the State and its policy. As such, it is legitimate for them to sit in such instances as the INCa. But the fewer parliamentarians there will be, the less diversity in these organizations. In the end, you take little risk with regard to the great balances within the institution, even if, by continuing the remarks made a few moments ago by our colleague Bernard Perrut, we could imagine that the alternate could be a member of the opposition. The prospect of ensuring a diversity of parliamentary representation is still limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u114	[["And their substitutes! »on the banks of the MODEM group]] Let me summarize: the first signatory of the amendment accepted the amendment to replace "two" with "one" on two occasions. The new wording therefore proposes that the INCa Board of Directors should include a Member of Parliament and a Senator. Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u115	To move in the direction of our colleague Bernard Perrut, we could agree with the proposal for a Member of Parliament and a Senator, as well as an alternate Member of Parliament and an alternate Senator. This would ensure the participation of parliamentarians in INCa, but also the widest possible representation of the diversity of opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u116	This requires the drafting of a sub-amendment. To that end, I shall briefly suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u117	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u118	The meeting was resumed. For the sake of clarity in our discussions, I shall summarize the situation. We have drafted a sub-amendment to Amendment No. 47, which was corrected before the sitting was suspended as follows: "The board of directors of the National Cancer Institute shall consist of one MP and one full senator". Subamendment No 67, signed by Mr Mignola, seems to be a consensus. It provides for the addition of amendment No. 47 as corrected by the words "as well as one deputy and one alternate senator". On the other hand, the correction of Amendment No 47 has the support of its defender...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u119	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u120	... as well as the Commission and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u121	On identical amendments Nos 9 and 41, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me three amendments, Nos 2, 9 and 41, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u122	[["Ah! »on the banks of the MODEM group]] It provides for the creation of a tax...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u123	I thought you didn't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u124	One more tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u125	...on the turnover of pharmaceutical laboratories, the product of which will be paid to the National Cancer Institute. According to the report, the number of people aged 15 and over who have had cancer in their lifetime is in the order of 3 million. Cancer research is essential if we are to understand its causes – particularly environmental ones – and develop new therapies and improve existing ones. INCa concentrates funding specifically devoted to the fight against cancer. Paediatric oncology has exhausted the conventional therapeutic strategies of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. We are still unable to treat certain cancers, which are resistant to therapies – for example, brain stem tumours. It is therefore necessary to explore new fields of research – fundamental, translational or clinical – which requires additional resources if researchers, associations and families are to be believed. Large pharmaceutical groups do not finance research in this area because of the low economic profitability of rare diseases. As for families, they are absolutely not in a position to compensate for the failure of the State in this regard, as they already bear very high costs for their children. As the authors of this bill rightly observe in the explanatory memorandum, "the action of market forces alone has proved insufficient to stimulate research and development activities. We can't say better! The rate of 0.2% at which we set the new contribution we propose to adopt would make a lot of money for research without weighing heavily on the funding of the pharmaceutical industry. In order to return to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, I would point out that the amendment is based on the bill tabled by Jean-Christophe Lagarde last October. He can – I hope – get the support of Members from all sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u126	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u127	It is also the result of Bill No. 1345 on the financing of paediatric oncological research by the pharmaceutical industry, tabled by Jean-Christophe Lagarde and co-signed by the members of our group. Here we have the opportunity to complement it usefully, in order to ensure sustainable funding for research in paediatric cancerology. In order to do so, the amendment provides for the creation of a tax on the turnover of pharmaceutical laboratories operating medicines reimbursed by health insurance. Such a tax, the rate of which we propose to set at 0.1%, would make it possible to release EUR 20 million per year, i.e. the estimated amount of funds lacking to relaunch research in this field. This amount would be allocated to the National Cancer Institute, an operator responsible for coordinating the cancer plan 2014-2019, in particular its specific component dedicated to the development of the care of children with cancer, and to implement, finance and coordinate more general research actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u128	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor in support of Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u129	[[Smile]] I thank our colleagues for mentioning their source of inspiration. It's very civilian on their part! However, I make no claim of paternity in this regard. I'd prefer that we lead to delivery, and finally we achieve something! Four years ago, we were discussing the same subject. Madam Minister, if some objected to the adoption of the amendment with regard to taxes, the will of the State to give EUR 20 million to researchers wishing to seek but not find money to do so, because they were not offered any, that is the heart of the matter! That's the political choice! That would be enough for us! My amendment is identical to the previous one. I hope that they will both be able to bring together a majority of our assembly. What is unbearable is to be faced with researchers and to hear them say, "We are not moving forward because we are using drugs that are not suitable for pediatric cancers. We'd like to be able to do some research. We cannot turn to pharmaceutical laboratories, which do not find their financial interest – without a prospect of profitability, a laboratory does not conduct research. » It is therefore necessary to find another way to finance this research, which necessarily requires the use of the public authority, by pursuing a single objective – that is to say, without initiating a trial of intent to anyone: not having to answer to a child, parents or a doctor that there is no suitable medicine. If we haven't found it, it's understandable. If we haven't done any research, that's not admissible. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] That is the purpose of the amendments, and of the bill on which they are based. I fear – and many of our colleagues with me – not to be heard again, but the idea will make its way. We cannot, in our country, respond to parents who have not been researched for lack of public money and a prospect of profitability in the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u132	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion last week, for a specific reason: I wanted to close the debate. Indeed, if Messrs. Dharréville and Quatennens were present in committee to defend their amendments, Mr Lagarde was absent. A motion for a resolution, inspired by its proposal for a law, will be debated next week in the House. In order not to steal the debate from you, my colleague, I have closed the debate on this subject which we had in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u133	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u134	Moreover, such a proposal cannot leave anyone indifferent, even as the debate on research funding is in full swing. The adoption of your amendment, Mr Lagarde, would make it possible to abound the budget for cancer research by some 20 million. That of Mr Corbière's amendment, which is based on the same spirit, would make it possible to abound by almost 40 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u135	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u136	The logic behind these amendments complements the logic behind the bill we are debating. Personally, I agree with you, Mr. Lagarde. It is important to increase funding for research, particularly for paediatric cancers. As for taxes, they are also topical. In this case, the one you are proposing is very targeted. It deals only with the turnover of pharmaceutical laboratories. It seems to us appropriate that these contribute significantly to the research effort in paediatric cancerology. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] For these reasons, I personally express an opinion in favour of identical amendments Nos 9 and 41, which were rejected by the committee. With regard to Amendment No 2, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u137	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u138	I will not go back to the substance of the amendments. We have discussed this on numerous occasions with Mr Lagarde, in particular in the context of the bill referred to earlier. You will discuss this again next week with me or my colleague Frédérique Vidal. I'll focus on the form. Turns out I ran three health agencies. We – together with the State – have systematically tried, as far as possible, to ensure the independence of their funding. For example, I chaired the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety, some of which were temporarily financed by taxes levied on nuclear power plants. How do you want to run a security operator if it is financed by a tax levied on those that it is supposed to control? Similarly, the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products has ensured that its funding is disconnected from the taxes levied on the pharmaceutical industry, in order to maintain its full freedom. While INCa is an operator that funds research, it also makes recommendations for good practice. He writes the texts on how to treat the sick. As far as image is concerned, I believe that an institution drawing up recommendations for good practice cannot be financed by industrialists. I think it would seriously undermine the independence of this body. As a minister, I am fundamentally opposed to financing my health agencies through taxes from industry. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] For these reasons, I am opposed to these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u139	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u140	More taxes! I am against creating any additional tax; I therefore do not think these amendments are appropriate. Moreover, it would be a turnover tax, therefore a production tax – this kind of tax that we have to fight if we want our industries to remain competitive. Of course, it's not much money, it won't put the pharmaceutical industry in jeopardy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u142	But, even if it is not always politically correct to say so, it is a very beautiful industry that we must protect. On the other hand, the objective is commendable; I agree with the intention of Jean-Christophe Lagarde and the other authors of these amendments: to increase the appropriations for research on paediatric cancers. During the budget, we tabled amendments on this subject; They were at the origin of the debate that we had about two weeks ago. We estimated that it took between EUR 15 and 20 million to be effective in the field of research against paediatric cancer. The Government has moved to 5 million; We thought that this subject did not deserve a petty discussion, and we voted for those 5 million. The Government can, without jeopardizing the finances of the state – and you are told by the Chairman of the Finance Committee – find 18 or 20 million euros to create a dynamic on fundamental research. That was the objective of our amendments, which could have been adopted by the House – which did not want it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u143	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u144	I will try to convince you, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, the comparisons you make, for example with nuclear power plants that would fund those who monitor them, do not hold! This is not about patronage, but about a tax imposed on an industry. There's no counterpart! We simply offer money for research. You, moreover, are free to sub-amend our amendments so that these EUR 20 million come from another source. The Government has the right to do so. Today, researchers don't have the money to explore promising leads. There is no money for this in the industries, there is no money in the state budget. That is the question we ask – with insistence, forgiveness! That is not, you are right, a political question; It is not the majority against the opposition, it is not a matter of dogma on taxes. It is a question of conscience: are we, the National Assembly, deciding that all avenues for research on paediatric cancers should be explored? That's all that matters: I don't care, I said, about paternity issues. I'm sorry to express myself with some emotion, but I can't stand this idea anymore that we're being deprived of this effort. I'm not suing anyone. I think we're wrong. The economic arbitrations of the laboratories – I do not accuse them of anything, again – will make them not go. And, between a cancer that affects 2500 kids, and that can probably still be subdivided into several different diseases, and a cancer that develops in adults, INCa will choose the second, because it affects more patients. The arbitration will be against the weakest. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I would like the National Assembly to express, through its vote, our determination to fight. In fact, during the parliamentary shuttle, you are free to change the origin of the 20 million euros – which are basically what you are asked to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u145	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u146	The Group of the European People's Party is obviously not in a position to support these amendments. First of all, I will join the chairman of the committee to which I belong: everyone will be able to hear that it is not appropriate to vote for new taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u147	There can be timely taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u148	On the other hand, there is a truncated vision effect. It is true that we have had the same debates here, and the House unanimously voted for an increase of EUR 5 million in the funds allocated to research on paediatric cancers. I asked INCa, whose budget is €90 million: they spend more than 11% of their budget on paediatric cancers, that is, much more than the proportion of these cancers in all the subjects they deal with.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u149	Go to the researchers! They can't look!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u150	Mr. Lagarde, I didn't interrupt you. In addition, fifteen days ago, in this House, the Government, aware of the problems, increased the funds allocated to research by EUR 5 million. In addition, consideration should be given to other research organizations that work either in the field of basic research or in others, and that also contribute their stone to the building. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] In total, I honestly believe that we are reaching EUR 18 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u151	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u152	This measure is a sort of corrective measure, aimed at redirecting a share of the benefits of drugs to research into these rare diseases, which are paediatric cancers. It also corrects a series of measures that we are taking in the various budgets, that of the State and that of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u153	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u154	Frankly, we can at least make this decision. Moreover, this tax would not put any thread on the INCa's foot, it would not create any obligation! It would not be for them to ask for anything from the labs; It's an imposed contribution. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and IDU groups]] We can therefore, I believe, quietly adopt this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u155	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u156	First of all, I would like to welcome the parliamentary courtesy of our rapporteur, who explained why she had given an opinion which was unfavourable to Mr Dharréville's amendment. This amendment seems to me to be useful and necessary. Our colleague Jean-Christophe Lagarde has been defending such a measure for many years, but we must also mention our former colleague Martine Faure, who was Member of Parliament for Gironde and chairman of the study group on paediatric cancers. It also called for a specific research fund of €20 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The Liberties and Territories Group will support these amendments. We would send a fine sign to parents and children, as well as to researchers working on these topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u157	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u158	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u159	I would like to begin by stressing the mistrust that we must experience with regard to a new tax, which is also affected. If we create a tax every time we talk about a subject, however legitimate it may be – and this one is more legitimate than all the others – then we forget all the work done during the budget, as President Woerth reminded us: then we made a substantial effort on the research budget. We must also be wary of the taxes affected. I shall repeat here what our colleague Philippe Berta has regularly reminded us, who is one of the brilliant scientists of this country, whose presence is honoured by this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u160	[[Smile]] Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u161	There are specific research on paediatric cancers, but also fundamental research on both adult and children's cancers. These will benefit each other. [[Applause on several banks of the MODEM group as well as on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on many benches of MODEM and LaREM groups]] While the responsibility of parliamentarians is obviously to devote the maximum amount of resources to research in general, it seems to me that in all humility it is not up to us to decide, instead of scientists and INCa, on the allocation of research budgets. It is the scientists themselves, and the evolution of paediatric diseases, that will lead INCa to allocate, independently, the sums that we have allocated to it each year, between research on paediatric cancers and fundamental research. Let us agree on the objectives; But let us leave it to the scientists to allocate the means, to advance and succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u162	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u163	The debate is serious, and a certain dignity must be maintained. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the pharmaceutical industry, whose profits in 2017 amounted to EUR 60 billion. It's probably one of the juiciest industries in the world! And what we are asking you is a 0.2% tax to fund research on paediatric cancers, of which we all know that this is a subject that is not of interest to the pharmaceutical industry, because it is both very expensive and not profitable! [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Frankly, this has nothing to do with yellow vests. Some of our fellow citizens have launched a debate on tax justice in this country; But they are not represented by the financial interests of the pharmaceutical lobby! Yes, the subject is those profits, those 60 billions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u164	Please, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u165	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] This tax is a compromise... So when it comes to defending the pharmaceutical industry and financial interests, some of our colleagues are much more responsive than they are to yellow vests! We recognize you there, always ready to defend the powerful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u166	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down, please. I would like everyone to come back to a bit of serenity, especially on a subject like the one we are dealing with today. Mr Corbière, you have the floor; Thank you for focusing on the amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u168	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u169	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I was talking about the amendments, Mr President, but I heard very unpleasant insults. The style is man, it is said: some attitudes are significant! In short, let us give back to Caesar what is Caesar's and Lagarde's to Lagarde: this proposal, on this important subject, did not come from us. She could have brought us together. I would like us to move forward, to really empower research. In no way would this tax put researchers under the influence of private interests, on the contrary. That is why I believe that these amendments must be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u170	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u171	The Socialist and Related Group will vote for these amendments. I too wanted to recall the work of our former colleague Martine Faure. When the researchers were interviewed, they had pointed out the difficulty they faced in obtaining funding. The time spent looking for money has not been spent looking for, working. That is why a specific fund is indispensable. Researchers must be freed from this hassle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u172	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u173	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like peace and reason to return to the Chamber. I had already asked everyone, during the debate in committee, to keep a certain reservation on this subject. No one here has a monopoly on empathy for children. We are all parents, grandparents, before we are Members of Parliament, and I would like us to remember that often. Sometimes, I don't care about our debates. It is always easy to raise the tone in the Chamber; We now know the handle effects of some.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u174	It's not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u175	It's not you. I would like to welcome Mr Mignola's speech, which addresses the subject as it should be. The Social Affairs Committee regularly hears INCa, as is the case with any state operator, and I invite you all to attend these hearings. We have not quite heard the same thing: when they say that they do not have enough resources for research, we all agree. But they don't do targeted research. As part of the finance bill, we honoured to target €5 million towards research against pediatric cancer, which had never been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u176	That's good because there's a need!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u177	So we do not have to be ashamed of our policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Since this morning, we've been working together on a device. Let's not fall into the cross that's been threatening us for a few minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u178	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor for a point of order...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u179	...under Rule 58(1), Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure of this House call on Members to remain calm. If I do not believe that I have had a lack of serenity, I fear that the exchanges that have just taken place will have an adverse effect on the vote on these amendments. It is a shame to provoke certain political reflexes on a subject which, as you say, Mrs Bourguignon, can affect us all as parents. That being said, I never vote based on my personal situation, but only on what I believe is right and good. However, while research on paediatric cancer accounts for 11% of CNIB's funding, researchers say that they do not find funding to explore a particular avenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u180	Mr Lagarde, please complete your point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u181	I conclude, Mr President: my aim is only to bring serenity back into the debate before we proceed to the vote. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] Minister, given your background, I imagine that you would not be able to claim before the National Assembly that all research leads and proposals made by researchers are currently funded or under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u182	Mr Lagarde, I ask you to respect the procedure of the point of order, in his spirit and in his letter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u183	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] That's what I do, Mr. President. But perhaps a suspension of the sitting would give us the time to reflect on our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u184	Good time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u185	The suspension is right if you request it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u186	Bad player!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u187	I'm not playing here, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u188	That wasn't a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u189	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u190	On the form, as I said, it is absolutely necessary to disconnect funding from health agencies from pharmaceutical laboratories. Otherwise, one takes a major risk in terms of image because everything that the institution will produce will then be looked at with a suspicious eye. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the day that INCa will propose good practices for the treatment of paediatric cancer, including the recommendation of a particular medicine, journalists or even Members of Parliament themselves may doubt their relevance if INCa is partly funded by a particular laboratory. We will then be ashamed of what we have done. This is why independent funding is needed for health agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u191	That's the case with that tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u192	On the other hand, Mr. Lagarde, I can only repeat what I have already said to you in considering your first bill on the subject. I was then chairing INCa, so I had every interest in finding new sources of funding: when you run a state operator, the more money you receive, the more you can distribute it and the more happy you are.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u194	However, I explained to you – and I repeat Mr Mignola's excellent comments – that the idea of a dedicated tax was a good false idea. We all want to improve knowledge of pediatric cancers, which today pose two problems. The first concerns the development of medicines: we do not have enough medicines for children. The pharmaceutical industry prefers to develop them for adults because the number of patients is higher, and this makes more money.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u195	That's exactly what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u196	This is why a European paediatric regulation obliges manufacturers drawing up a plan for the development of medicinal products to draw up a plan for the development of paediatrics in parallel. However, too many derogations are granted. Therefore, this paediatric regulation needs to be revised to become much more coercive. France had defended the first version of the regulation, and it was also France's call for the regulation to be revised and made more prescriptive, so that the industry would not escape its obligation to develop paediatric medicines. However, a CNRS or INSERM researcher will never develop a drug himself: it can only come from an industrialist. Taxing will therefore not make it possible to develop new medicines. For this, we need the industrialists, and it is the European Paediatric Regulation that will force them to do so. [[Mrs. Amélie de Montchalin applauds]] Second, while in general cancerology, the progression in survival is about 1 to 2 per cent per year, so that survival after the disease is gradually improving, there are cancers for which research, on the contrary, has not made any progress in 20 years – this is the case, for example, of brain stem cancer. For two or three cancers, we are even facing a wall, which all international scientists see as a conceptual problem. Yet they are decrypted – genetic factors, development mechanisms are known – but we know that it is not by studying them more that we will find a treatment. Work is needed, for example, on tissue development or basic immunology. To take this step, to succeed, we need ideas from other disciplines. The CNIB is just around the table of personalities from all fields – mathematicians, researchers in the humanities, social sciences, and environmental sciences. All are trying to think about how to solve these problems, which requires a paradigm shift. The Fund for Paediatric Cancers will therefore go to a few research teams which, today, are in a situation of blockage. It is not the money they lack, but the ideas, which will come from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u197	What prevents them from financing anyway?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u198	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The largest treatments in paediatric cancer – notably CAR-T cells – are derived from genetics, cell therapy and fundamental immunology. They were not discovered by the researchers, of whom I am a member, who are studying leukemia in children. The dedicated tax is therefore a conceptual error: making one believe that one will do better thanks to it is a fundamental error of reasoning. I can't say that more clearly. I had done it four years ago when I was president of INCa. I repeat this to you today as a minister. It is not a question of saying that I do not want more money for research – we all dream of having more money – but to dedicate such money to these teams is to make a fundamental mistake of reasoning. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the other hand, I do not want industry money to fund state health agencies under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u199	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 9 and 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u200	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 107 Absolute majority 54 For adoption 28 Against 79
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u201	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1 and 22. I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u202	We are meeting this morning, as we were in the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Social Affairs, to discuss an important subject, which must bring us together. You have said it yourself, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, it is not a partisan but a grouping issue. Each of you, like me, has a deep conviction that the disease that affects so many children and adolescents, which is devastating families, must mobilize the public authorities and civil society as a whole. That is why I have tabled this amendment, which aims to make the fight against cancer of the national cause of the child recognised for 2019, with the guarantee that the public authorities "commit themselves to promoting this provision by all means". This could be a strong sign on the part of the Government, which could reflect a unanimous effort beyond political sensitivities. In 1989, the then government decided to make cancer a major national cause, responding to the request of the National League against Cancer. In the last 30 years, this topic has not been put at the forefront at the national level. Adopting this amendment would mean sending a sign to all those who work in this field – doctors, researchers, institutions – as well as to children and adolescents who fight for life, some of whom follow our debates behind their screens, to families and associations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am not expressing this in my personal capacity, but in the name of those who are experiencing this situation, and my remarks could be made by any Member, regardless of the bench on which he sits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u203	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u204	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The Liberties and Territories Group supports this symbolic amendment, which our colleague Bernard Perrut presented in the Committee on Social Affairs and which he has just defended brilliantly. To declare a national cause for 2019 the fight against childhood cancer is to send a sign of support to all those working in this field – doctors, researchers, health institutions, professionals accompanying patients – and a sign of encouragement to associations and families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u206	The committee rejected Mr Perrut's amendment. In my personal capacity, however, I am in favour of it, especially since I have co-signed it. He was objected in committee to the fact that it was not for Parliament to declare a major national cause. Such a decision is within the competence of the Prime Minister, with whom a file has been filed. However, this amendment seems to me all the more important because, as you said, Mr Perrut, cancer was declared a major national cause for the last time in 1989, almost thirty years ago. Cancer had already been targeted several times, in 1977, 1980 and 1984, in particular, but never the fight against paediatric cancers. As a result, all those who share this struggle see only benefits to your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u208	As the rapporteur said, it is not up to the legislator to declare a national cause. A procedure is provided for this, consisting of a call for applications from the services of the Prime Minister. On the other hand, everyone will have a personal opinion on the matter, but as a minister, I would have some difficulty choosing to fight one child's disease rather than another. For, basically, that is the point: if the fight against childhood cancer was declared a major national cause, I would immediately see the associations of families of children with cystic fibrosis or neurodegenerative diseases showing their disappointment at the Government giving less importance to the cause they are defending. I would be bored to have to oppose one association of sick people to another. As drafted, the amendment could therefore ruin the cohesion that we want to maintain around children's diseases. That is why the Government is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u209	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u210	No one more than I wish to see the fight against pediatric cancers become a major national cause. As the minister knows, I'm part of a collective that already filed a file last year to get this label. This was not accepted by the Prime Minister, but I would like to reiterate this year's request with the running Republic Group and other Members, who had co-signed it. But what is proposed here, once again, is to amend the law. It is very French, to want to enshrine everything in the law. Rather than contributing to the legislative overload, I suggest that all Members join me, as I did last year. The minister has just set out her position, with which one may disagree. It is the responsibility of the collective, which brings together primarily associations of families, but also researchers, the pharmaceutical industry and politicians, to make this request, but the group The Republic on the move cannot vote for a provision that would add to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u211	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u212	I hear the answer from our colleague who is also involved in this struggle. I do not claim to replace anyone, the collective, or the researchers. Some have been involved for several years, perhaps longer than you, Mr.Lauzzana – but that is not the point. Minister, you have argued that it is difficult to distinguish between cancer and other childhood diseases. But some of them are already grouped together – I am thinking of genetic diseases through this beautiful operation called Telethon – while pediatric cancers are not united in a single cause. That's why I proposed this sign that should bring us all together. You will have noted that I did not request a public vote on this amendment out of respect for this issue. However, I expected a little more from you, minister. My call being devoid of partisan spirit – everyone knows me – I thought it could be heard – I tell you frankly. As Minister of Health, you have great influence with the Prime Minister. The majority also exerts some influence – it is the law of the majority – and minorities a little less. On such matters, we must all be equal and united. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In a few weeks' time, I will be receiving in this Chamber young people with cancer and treated in a large French institution, who will be accompanied by great teachers. They will bring with them a robot that will be run by a young person from his sterile room and will circulate in the National Assembly. I assure you, I have obviously informed the Presidency of this very valuable visit. I will be in pain to explain that day, Madam Minister, that in this place where the heart of French democracy is beating, we have not had the courage or the will – I don't know how to say it – to make the fight against child cancer the great national cause 2019. I do not hide from you the embarrassment that will then be mine – I tell you nothing more but you understand me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u213	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u214	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I have heard the minister's arguments, but I have also heard our colleague's proposal to involve us in his approach. I believe, indeed, that we should not divide ourselves on such a subject. In the name of responsibility and in trusting you, my colleague, to continue the work that has been done, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u215	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u216	In accordance with the recommendations of the human rights defender, this amendment aims to affirm the right of the hospitalized child to benefit from the presence of his parents at his side during his care in a health institution, as required by the European Charter for Hospitalized Children in force since 1988, which, although not a law, remains a reference. It also seems necessary to institute regular independent audits in paediatric services, in particular paediatric oncology, with the collaboration of associations and patient families in order to improve the conditions for the reception and treatment of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u218	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. The amendment requires, on the one hand, the presence of parents with their child in care and, on the other hand, audits. On the first point, one can only be in favour of accompanying patients by their families – this is the case at the Gustave Roussy Institute, the Curie Institute, the Necker Hospital or the Margency Children's Hospital, which has had so many difficulties getting a parent's house out of the ground. Under your control, minister, the question of the feasibility of generalization to all hospitals seems to arise even if some smaller structures sometimes succeed in providing this support. I would like to ask you about the implementation of the testing of hospital hotels which was decided by the Social Security Financing Act for 2015 and which the rapporteur-general pointed out in his report last year that it was slow to be launched. On the second point, the proposed wording is too vague to facilitate the translation of an intention which I think is commendable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u220	This amendment is already satisfied. It aims to verify the general organisation of paediatrics, in particular paediatric oncology, and paediatric oncology activity is subject to authorisation. Only thirty-one centres now have permission to take care of cancer patients – forty-seven if you take into account some radiation therapy centres. Applications for authorisation shall be subject to visits by regional health agencies. In order to obtain authorisations, which must be renewed regularly, establishments must comply with a specification. A revision of the terms of reference of the authorisation schemes is under way within the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care – DGOS. These already include the obligation for institutions to encourage the presence of parents with their children. The CNIB's accreditation criterion 7 for the practice of treating children's cancers, of regulatory value, provides that the health institution "organizes the reception, the presence of parents and visits of siblings, and formalizes an organisation providing accommodation for parents" – these are the hotels that you are referring to, Madam rapporteur, and that come out of the land gradually; They have been the subject of an experiment financed by the CNIB and DGOS, but they face regulatory problems because the accommodation is considered to be hotels, therefore subject to competition. Despite technical and regulatory difficulties, most of the institutions that care for cancer patients today are trying to create specific accommodation. Finally, with regard to patient satisfaction, there is now an automatic post-hospital satisfaction survey – the I-SATIS survey. Addressed to all patients hospitalized for more than 48 hours, this survey evaluates the reception, care by doctors or surgeons, care by nurses and caregivers, room, meals, organization of outings. On the basis of feedback from these questionnaires, institutions are encouraged to improve their practices. The questionnaire is prepared by the High Health Authority. This is taken into account in the evaluation of institutions in order to assess their quality, which is a condition of their funding. The reception and treatment of patients are therefore already largely supervised. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u221	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u222	I heard you very well, Madam Minister. However, as this amendment has been tabled by my colleague Damien Abad, you will understand that I am embarrassed to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u223	On Amendment No 8, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u224	The amendment, also proposed by Damien Abad, aims to raise awareness among the population at an early age of the donation of blood – France has 1.7 million donors, or 4% of the population of age to give – and the donation of bone marrow – bone marrow transplantation is a therapeutic indication for 80% of serious blood pathologies; Every year in France, more than 2,000 people need a bone marrow transplant. It is proposed to put in place a large information campaign explaining how the French model is based on ethics and how each person can save lives by giving. Actions would be carried out jointly by the State and local authorities in schools, higher education institutions, enterprises and administrations. Particular attention should be paid to schoolchildren, college students and high school students who will be essential donors and who must become aware of the importance of the donation of blood and the values that underpin the French model. Courses could be provided by teachers, specialized associations and health professionals, as is already the case on road safety or drug use.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u226	The Commission delivered an unfavourable opinion. The French Blood Establishment regularly organizes donation campaigns and also regularly launches alerts about insufficient collection. There is no doubt, however, that the donation of bone marrow is essential for the treatment of leukemias known to affect children. From this point of view, the amendment is consistent with the objectives of the bill. That is why, personally, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u228	My opinion is unfavorable. This amendment came from Mr Abad's bill, which was discussed here a little over a month ago. It is up to the French Blood Establishment and the Agency for Biomedicine to organize the campaigns, in conjunction with the communities. Colleges and high schools are not priority targets because they need to be able to act quickly. Now, as you know, the donation of blood, and even more the donation of bone marrow, is not allowed until the age of eighteen. With regard to bone marrow donation, the only subject of this amendment related to paediatric cancers, the Biomedicine Agency targets blood donors as they are most likely to be sensitive to the issue of bone marrow donation. There is no real public campaign for this type of donation as the Biomedicine Agency is looking for donors with specific profiles. This amendment is, on the one hand, already satisfied with the work of our health agencies and, on the other hand, seems too vague to be included in a proposal for a law on paediatric cancers. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u229	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u230	The La République Group on the move will of course follow the opinion of the Minister. The clear technical elements provided to us can only encourage us to vote against the amendment. We are all, of course, in favour of the donation of bone marrow, and we must recall that there is indeed a lack of bone marrow donation at the national level. Nevertheless, information and awareness-raising campaigns are primarily the prerogatives of health agencies, including the French Blood Establishment, which is already working in this direction. We will therefore vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u231	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u232	I have heard your arguments, minister, but I believe that awareness must begin well before the age of donation. It would be appropriate to deliver these messages to high school students before they even reach the age at which it is possible to give.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u233	I put Amendment No. 8 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u234	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 23 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u235	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-29-O1087.u236	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill to strengthen the care of paediatric cancers through research, support for family caregivers, training of professionals and the right to be forgotten; Discussion of the proposal for a law for the protection of agricultural activities and marine crops in coastal and mountain areas; Discussion of the proposed law on the prohibition of ordinary educational violence; Discussion of the bill to improve the cash flow of associations. The meeting is adjourned.
