ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of four bills authorizing the approval of international conventions and agreements (No 321, 991; No 322, 992; No 528, 993; No 599, 994). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u2	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, on competition controls and sanctions in French Polynesia and New Caledonia (Nos. 859 and 1059).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u3	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u4	Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons – the largest number of gentlemen present is largely compensated by the president and rapporteur! – first of all, I would like to apologize to Annick Girardin, who would have wished to be at your side, but who is with the President of the Republic and many overseas elected officials, to continue the reflections on this subject which mobilises us: France with its overseas. Today we are considering this bill on French Polynesia, whose scope, at least territorial, has been extended by the work of your commission. By a law of the country of 23 February 2015, the Assembly of French Polynesia created an independent administrative authority with sanctions powers, the Polynesian Competition Authority – APC. This Act came into force on February 1, 2016. The order of 9 February 2017 submitted to you for ratification is intended to take the necessary measures so that the Polynesian Competition Authority can fully exercise its functions and have coercive means of control. These measures concern the jurisdiction of the courts, the statute of limitations of public proceedings, the enhanced powers of investigation and controls, the means of appeal against its decisions and the penalties incurred. More specifically, this law allows the agents intervening for the Authority to carry out visits to any place or to seize documents upon authorization by the judge of freedoms and detention of the Court of First Instance of Papeete. It also allows these agents to access any document or information held by the State departments and institutions and by the services and establishments of the public authorities of French Polynesia, without being opposed to professional secrecy. The Ordinance also provides for the arrangements for cooperation between this local authority and the National Competition Authority or the departments of the Ministry of Economy: mutual communication of the necessary information or documents, and delegation of certain investigations. Thus, the PCA, with its status as an independent administrative authority, has a range of verification and control tools identical to that of the National Competition Authority. Guarantees in terms of judicial remedies against its decisions will also be of a comparable level. On the basis of the authorization provided for in article 74 (1) of the Constitution, this order must be expressly ratified within 18 months. The Senate enriched the text with the adoption of two amendments. The first seeks to clarify the remedies for the determination of the competent Court of Appeal – the Paris Court of Appeal – and the time limits for appeal – in principle a month – by strictly analogy with the legislative rules applicable to the Autorité de la concurrence nationale. This is a measure of consistency. The second aims to restore the obligation to transmit declarations of property status and declarations of interest to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – HATVP – for members of the independent administrative authorities in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. This obligation had inadvertently disappeared, following an amendment to the Act of 11 October 2013 on the transparency of public life. In turn, the Law Commission of the National Assembly approved the bill before it. It made editorial improvements to Article 2 and adopted three amendments: at the initiative of the rapporteur, on Article 3, it called for the reporting obligations to the HATVP to be extended to the general rapporteurs of the Polynesian and Caledonian authorities, provided that they had significant prerogatives during the investigation of cases; Two identical amendments tabled by the rapporteur and by Mr Philippe Gomès resulted in the inclusion in the draft law of a new article 4 providing for the extension of investigative techniques to the National Competition Authority, but for which the legislator had not provided for application to New Caledonia. This extension mainly concerns procedures related to new technologies – computer captures, loan identity. This is the bill that you are proposing to pass. For the Government, the establishment of competition authorities meets the strong expectations of our citizens, especially overseas, but also throughout France. More than others, island or geographically isolated territories face the challenge of sustaining competition. It is true that this is sometimes more difficult for island territories. The theme of expensive living is a concern of everyday life. It is always the consumer who, in the end, pays for the absence of competition and the existence of monopoly or oligopoly situations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] French Polynesia, and before it, New Caledonia, has taken strong measures to boost the economy, protect the consumer and strengthen the purchasing power of households. It is therefore the honour of the national authorities to accompany this dynamic. The Government is therefore asking you to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u5	Mrs Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u6	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, Madam President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, before I present the results of our work, I would like to thank our ultramarine colleagues, who, on all the benches of this House, have informed me about the conditions and consequences of the special status of both French Polynesia and New Caledonia: Mrs Sage, Mr Brotherson, Mr Gomès and Mr Dunoyer in particular. I will try to be brief and go straight to the essentials. That has already been said, the purpose of this bill is to ratify an order. This is not as commonplace as one might think, because it is an order made on the basis of section 74-1 of the Constitution, and Parliament will not consider much of it during this legislature. It is indeed a legal instrument which, in terms of time, has a small advantage and a big disadvantage. The disadvantage is that the order lapses 18 months after its publication, if it has not been ratified. The procedure thus ends in a form of race against the clock. This is precisely the situation we are in today, since the order in question, which deals with competition law in French Polynesia, was taken on 9 February 2017. The most agile among you in mathematics will have deduced that ratification must be promulgated before August 10th. Otherwise, we risk losing everything. This is obviously an option that cannot be considered. I therefore cut short any possible suspense by urging a positive vote, following the unanimous adoption of this bill by the Law Commission. The order in question concerns competition law, or rather part of the competition law in French Polynesia. Indeed, the organic status of the Territory gives it the authority to regulate the matter autonomously. The Polynesian authorities have seized this, since a law of the country of 25 February 2015 created a local competition code and established a Polynesian Competition Authority, in order to enforce it. I would like to make it clear at once, in order to prevent possible polemics, that this local competition code is currently being reformed. One of the objectives pursued is to remove certain very strong powers that had been attributed to the PCA, including the structural injunction, which allows the sale of part of its facilities or its rights to a dominant player in a market. The Senate was quite surprised by this initiative. For my part, I shall confine myself to a position of principle: one decentralizes or does not decentralize. From the moment France makes the choice of trusting its territories, in this case ultramarine, it is not for institutions at central level to question the assessments made at the local level. The Polynesians decide for them: what they decide is decided, and does not have to intervene in today's discussion. I come back to our bill. You may wonder: why an order made by the state, if Polynesia is competent? Because the investigation and punishment of competition law offences, since they relate to public freedoms and criminal law, have remained the competence of the State. We therefore come in addition to what the law of the country has done, to enable the PCA to have faculties comparable to those of the National Competition Authority. On this bill, we are the second chamber before us. Before us, the Senate obviously approved the principle of ratification, but it added two additional articles to the text. The first addition, an amendment that became Article 2, is the result of a rather comprehensible reaction in bad mood. In order to apply correctly, the litigation procedure provided for in the order refers to a decree. However, it has not yet been adopted by the Government since the publication of the Ordinance. The Senate was concerned about this. It noted that some missing provisions, such as the time limits for appeal or the jurisdiction of the Paris Court of Appeal, were already included in the law with regard to the very close procedure applicable in New Caledonia. Senators have therefore decided, as well, to include in the law, without waiting for the rules, the provisions applicable to Polynesia. The Government has taken note of this, and we have made only editorial amendments to article 2. The second addition, an amendment that became Article 3, follows a recommendation of the High Authority for the transparency of public life, which monitors the declarations of interest and property status of elected officials and politicians, as we know well, but also those of the members and senior officials of the independent administrative authorities. The reason is obvious: when regulating a sector, one must be transparent about its possible links with the players in this sector. However, while the National Competition Authority is well within the HATVP's supervisory scope, the Caledonian and Polynesian authorities have been forgotten. The Senate wanted to rectify this error by submitting to HATVP the members of the college of these authorities, as well as the Directors General and Secretaries General and their deputies. I would point out that the Presidents of the two authorities were very supportive of this initiative. The only problem is that there is neither a Director-General nor a Secretary-General, but a rapporteur-general with considerable powers, such as the possibility of lifting or maintaining business secrecy in the cases he is investigating. Not mentioning it was problematic. In fact, the violation of obligations with the HATVP is criminally punished. However, criminal law is strictly interpreted. The Law Committee has therefore added this welcome and necessary reference to the general rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u7	Finally, the Law Committee has adopted an amendment to the joint initiative of the Members of the House of Commons and your rapporteur so that this bill may repair an imperfection. Since 2009, the legislature has not extended to New Caledonia the new competition investigation techniques available to the National Authority and the Polynesian Authority. This includes taking into account technological developments in Internet surveying, or allowing the use of a borrowing identity in an investigation. This is a well-founded and legitimate request, since it restores a level playing field between the three competition authorities. In doing so, we have established a formal parallelism already used in the second paragraph of article 3 by the Senate, which has included in the obligation declarations of heritage and interests both the authority of Polynesia and that of New Caledonia. The exchanges and interviews I have had with the Polynesian executive, the presidents of the Polynesian and Caledonian authorities, and the ultramarine MPs concerned, suggest to me that this bill is now well suited to their needs. Ladies and gentlemen, I made it very brief, but before I invite you to vote, I must, however, provide you with additional information. The Senate, through its Vice-President Catherine Troendlé, who was rapporteur of the text at the time of its consideration by the upper chamber, has just expressed to us its very strong reluctance to vote on the text that I propose to you today: it would like to stick to its own wording. The CMP, which will be convened on July 4, will allow us to obtain more details on the official position of the Senate and will therefore lead me to return to you. I propose for the time being to keep it as discussed, amended and unanimously approved by the Law Committee of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u8	In the general debate, Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u9	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM and related groups welcome with interest this bill ratifying Order No. 2017-157 extending and adapting to French Polynesia certain provisions of Book IV of the Commercial Code relating to competition controls and sanctions. Competition law is now part of the structure of economic relations. This is therefore a particularly important right in a globalised world where economic relations have multiplied in recent years. It is a young right which, as such, is still intended both to evolve from the point of view of its very legal substance, and to see its territorial scope extended. Despite the youthful nature of this right, the objectives it pursues are fundamental both for the economic viability of all the actors subject to it and for the well-being of consumers. Indeed, a highly competitive social market economy, which is also enshrined in Article 3 of the Treaty of the European Union, remains an economic structure conducive to sound competition and the full expression of the merits of economic actors. In this respect, French Polynesia is a small island market that is not attractive to economic actors, particularly because of its remoteness from production centres. Thus, this territory, naturally not prone to healthy competition, but on the contrary favourable to oligopolies and monopolies, is marked, like virtually all island economies, by high prices in the distribution sector, including food. This state of affairs made it necessary to draw up a competition law applicable to French Polynesia, whereas French competition law is not directly applicable to it and European competition law is not intended to apply to it in the light of the outermost nature of that territory. This is why French Polynesia, by two laws of the country of 23 February and 14 April 2015, has decided to considerably strengthen its competition law by establishing, among other things, a Polynesian Competition Authority. The APC started operations in June 2016 and issued its first decision on 6 July 2016 on a merger in the hotel sector. Since its inception, the PCA has issued 11 merger decisions, two commercial area decisions and none on anti-competitive practices as of December 31, 2017, despite 11 opinions. If it is still early to take stock of its activity, we would like to welcome the first positive feedback on the PCA: the fight against anti-competitive practices and abusive monopolistic positions appear to be favourable to consumers and investors. However, while the Polynesian Autorité de la concurrence remains a fundamental structure for the effective application of competition law in French Polynesia, it proves to be, at present, insufficient to ensure full regulation of the commercial relations of the French Polynesian market. While competition law is one of the competences of French Polynesia, the law of the country establishing a local competition code could not, however, include provisions relating to the investigative powers of APC agents or to controls, nor could it specify the remedies applicable to its decisions, since the State retains its competence in these areas. In order to circumvent the obstacle posed by this division of powers, the Government, by Order No. 2017-157, made the choice to supplement competition law in French Polynesia by filling these gaps. The Ordinance therefore contains fourteen articles, based on Book IV of the Commercial Code, relating to criminal law, criminal and administrative procedures, judicial organization, supplementing and strengthening the means of action of an APC which must be in a position to carry out its monitoring and sanctioning tasks. We also wished to welcome the introduction of two articles by the Senate. Thus, a new Article 2 organises cooperation between the PCA and the competent national authorities; clarify the jurisdiction of the Paris Court of Appeal to hear appeals against APC's decisions on anti-competitive practice; establish a period of one month's appeal in principle, by strictly analogy with the rules applicable to the Autorité de la concurrence nationale and the Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia. A new article 3 re-establishes the obligation for members of the independent administrative authorities established by French Polynesia and New Caledonia to transmit a declaration of property status and a declaration of interest to the High Authority for the transparency of public life, in accordance with the national regime of the independent administrative authorities. Finally, during the Committee's examination of the laws in our Assembly, an additional article was created, in order to update and extend the provisions of the Commercial Code relating to the powers of investigation in the field of competition to the sworn agents of the Department of Economic Affairs and the Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia, so that they may have all the means necessary to establish the offences provided for in the Commercial Code applicable in New Caledonia. We emphasize that these additions are essential legal tools for the full exercise of the tasks entrusted to the APC and the New Caledonia Competition Authority, as well as for full compliance with competition law in the Overseas Territories. Adopting this bill would be an additional step in the dynamic of French Polynesia in the field of competition, as demonstrated by the country's law of 14 March 2018 prohibiting exclusive import rights and introducing a leniency procedure that minimizes the pecuniary penalties imposed on an economic operator in case of denouncing an anti-competitive practice in which he took part. This bill is essential for a healthy structuring of the economic relations of French Polynesia and New Caledonia, and we are pleased to be a party to it. The Commission's version of the text fully corresponds to the expectations of the MODEM and related group on this subject. For all these reasons, we will be voting with conviction on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u10	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u11	[[Smile]] Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chair of the Committee on the Law, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, like you, the Secretary of State, I should have been at the Elysée this morning with the overseas delegation of our assembly for the presentation of the Blue Book of the Overseas. But no more than you, Secretary of State, I have the gift of ubiquity and cannot be in two places at once! It is not the crowded Chamber this morning, in which an electric atmosphere reigns, which will deny me! This is the very example of a calmed debate on an important subject. It is also an opportunity, as we are in the midst of a review of constitutional reform, to recall that France is beautiful in its diversity. We are here to discuss the draft law on competition controls and sanctions in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. This text was initially a ratification of the Order of 9 February 2017 concerning competition law in French Polynesia, taken on the basis of Article 74-1 of the Constitution, and not Article 38 – nothing to do with the old decree-laws. It must be ratified by 10 August. However, this order was issued in February 2017, calling for an implementing order, which should in principle have been made before June 30, 2017, the deadline for the order to come into force. To date, more than a year after the order was made, this decree has still not been issued. Allow me here a little parenthesis on the law factory. While Parliament should not be too talkative, it would also be useful for the Government to publish the implementing legislation within a reasonable time frame, since the legislative process was not limited to parliamentary debates. As we are in the process of reviewing, refining, improving, I hope, our procedures for the development of the law. We are all here very attached to the influence of the overseas territories. In this regard, it is important that the State fully commit itself to the development of these territories with special status, even though we are in the process of revising the Constitution and are going to discuss the subject of differentiation. It is an opportunity to recall that the Republic is one and indivisible, but in its duly recognized diversity. It must be borne in mind that the ultraperipheral position of these territories, whose markets have nothing to do with continental markets, creates special conditions of competition there. Polynesia is several million square kilometres, a territory large like Europe, on which we cannot, of course, act as we would in mainland France. The Polynesian authorities have drawn up a competition code, based on Book IV of the National Commercial Code, including the creation of a Polynesian competition authority, following the model of the Metropolitan Competition Authority. New Caledonia had done the same for some time before. By a law of the country of 23 February 2015, the Assembly of French Polynesia created an independent administrative authority: the Polynesian Competition Authority. This authority takes over the main tasks of the National Competition Authority: an advisory function, a function of an administrative nature authorizing economic concentration operations and a function of a contentious nature of sanctioning anti-competitive practices. This initiative of the Assembly of French Polynesia, which I welcome, responds to issues specific to ultramarine territories – a new illustration of the principle of unity in diversity. Ensuring competition in these isolated territories remains a very complex challenge. It is, however, crucial for our Polynesian and Caledonian citizens faced with the continuous increase in the cost of living and the constitution of different monopolies on their territory, which I do not hesitate to describe as abuse of a dominant position. That insularity has a number of consequences is obvious, but the responsibility of the communities and of the country as a whole is to fight against this concentration and to assure our ultramarine fellow citizens that their purchasing power will be preserved as much as possible and that they will be able to have dignified living conditions. The Assembly of French Polynesia has asked the French State to take the additional provisions of its competence in criminal law, criminal procedure, contentious administrative procedure and judicial organization. As such, the order extending and adapting to French Polynesia certain provisions of Book IV of the Commercial Code relating to controls and sanctions in competition matters is intended to take the necessary measures so that the Polynesian Autorité de la concurrence can fully exercise its functions and have in particular coercive means of control – a control body without means, in particular coercive ones, would have no interest, if not to do well in the setting. Specifically, in a few words, what are the provisions of the Ordinance? It determines the courts competent in French Polynesia to hear disputes concerning anti-competitive practices; It lays down the rules governing the statute of limitations for public action, it confers specific and binding powers of inquiry on APC agents: the power to visit all places and to seize all documents – it is quite classic but it is important to clarify this – and the possibility of requesting the disclosure of any documents in possession of a public administration or, of course, of a court. Finally, it sets out the remedies before the judicial judge for decisions taken by the PCA on anti-competitive practices. On the other hand, the Ordinance does not provide for the ordinary investigative powers of APC officers, their determination falling within the competence of the Assembly of French Polynesia. There are therefore some sharing of competences in the logic of the statutes of French Polynesia and New Caledonia. On 14 March 2018, the Assembly of French Polynesia adopted a new law of the country to correct certain aspects of the competition code. This text also removes certain prerogatives of the PCA in the control of anti-competitive practices and authorizes the President of French Polynesia to raise a case of economic concentration by ruling himself in place of the PCA, but, it must be clarified, there is no provision for the ordinary investigative powers of the PCA agents. Barely ratified, the order will probably have to be updated: so today we find ourselves with a re-visit clause, if I may say so, especially with regard to references to the French Polynesia Competition Code. Since the order had not yet been promulgated, given the time-limits for appeal to the Council of State, it was not possible to take it into account today. In any event, the original bill provided for a single clause to ratify the order. In view of all this history, the Senate rapporteur, our colleague Mrs Catherine Troendlé, had recalled the unfavourable opinion on the country's draft law issued in January 2018 by the Economic, Social and Cultural Council of French Polynesia, which considered that "this text unduly reduced the prerogatives of the PCA and could undermine its independence", while concluding that "it is only for the competent authorities of French Polynesia to decide what developments they wish in the field of competition law". That is said, in order to recall the singularity of the law in Polynesia. As a result, amendments were made by the Senate. A few quick words about this. New article 2 of the draft law draws the consequences of the Government's delay in the publication of the decree implementing the ordinance by raising legal provisions on remedies. It organises cooperation in the investigation of competition between the APC and, at the national level, the Autorité de la concurrence and the services of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention. The new article 3 of the draft law, on the other hand, subjects the highest members and agents of the competition authorities of French Polynesia and New Caledonia to obligations which, in a way, fall under the ordinary law: declaration of interests and declaration of property status to the High Authority for the transparency of public life – which we know well – in order to strengthen ethical control in these institutions. France is one and indivisible in its diversity but a number of higher rules must apply regardless of the status of the territories, it is obvious that this bill recalls. Finally, in the National Assembly, in the Committee on Laws, all the groups voted in favour of this text despite the changes made, not without recalling the lack of diligence of the Government, I return to this: it is important, Mr. Secretary of State, that the State be at the meeting of the law factory and that the Assembly and the Senate not alone bear the apparent responsibility of delaying ignition. In Article 3, which is a useful complement to this text, the rapporteur has called for the obligations of declaration of interests and property status to be extended to the general rapporteurs, provided that they have significant prerogatives. This was done without any particular difficulty. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] I refer you to the text contained in the Competition Code concerning the application in New Caledonia of various provisions relating to competition investigation techniques and procedures which the legislator had not extended following their creation, except to remind them in small letters, at the head of paragraphs or chapters. We therefore have no particular objections to make and, as we have done in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Republican Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u12	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u13	Madam Chair, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the absence of our colleagues from the overseas communities, but it is obvious that it is difficult to be in two places at the same time! They are sorry, but we would have appreciated their presence this morning. We must consider a text submitted to the Senate at first reading after the accelerated procedure, a draft law on competition controls and sanctions in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. This text extends and adapts to French Polynesia and New Caledonia certain provisions of Book IV of the Commercial Code relating to competition controls and sanctions. Clarification is given to the system of remedies against decisions of the Polynesian Competition Authority concerning anti-competitive practices; the jurisdiction of the Paris Court of Appeal is specified; the time limits for appeal shall be fixed. The ratification also provides for the possibility of cooperation in the investigation of competition between the Polynesian Competition Authority and the Autorité de la concurrence at national level. Finally, the restoration of the obligation to transmit a declaration of property status and a declaration of interest to the High Authority for the transparency of public life is provided for members of the independent administrative authorities of New Caledonia and French Polynesia. This text responds to a request from French Polynesia: in accordance with the rules governing its status, it has requested, through a resolution, the adoption by the State of provisions falling within its competence in order to supplement a law of the country relating to competition and another regulating commercial practices. Insular territory, French Polynesia is an overseas community of the Republic. Located in the south of the Pacific Ocean, it is governed by article 74 of the 1958 Constitution and enjoys wide administrative autonomy. Its power lies essentially in the hands of a territorial assembly elected by universal suffrage, renewed in April 2018 and possessing the deliberative power, as well as an executive body constituted by the Government and placed under the control of the Assembly. Thanks to its administrative autonomy, Polynesia has many adjustments to the laws of the French Republic. The President of the Overseas Community, elected in May 2018, establishes laws and regulations; He has almost similar powers in the Parliament in metropolitan France. The legislation in French Polynesia is therefore special: a specific law is already applied to it allowing the legislator to define the conditions for the application of laws and regulations, making it possible to apply metropolitan law only upon express mention in this sense. In addition, Polynesia has "some categories of acts of the deliberative assembly acting under its jurisdiction in the field of law" commonly referred to as the laws of the country. These acts take place in very broad areas of Polynesia's principled jurisdiction and can only be challenged before the Council of State and not before the Administrative Court. Another territory with a special status, New Caledonia is also affected by that ratification. It has a status of broad autonomy sui generis established by the Nouméa Agreement, which differs from that of Polynesia because it is granted not only administrative autonomy but also, in a sense, political autonomy. With the exception of the areas of defence, security and justice, which remain metropolitan, New Caledonia has autonomy with regard to other sovereign powers. The constitutional reform that we are currently considering in the Law Commission deals with the issue of autonomy. As has long been announced by the executive, this reform will create a "right to differentiation" between communities, "after or not an experiment", in order "to enable local elected representatives to respond more effectively to the needs of the population present in their territory". Above all, the regulatory power of overseas communities – as described in section 73 – is expanded. The latter may request, if the draft constitutional law remains in force, to be empowered by decree in the Council of Ministers to determine the rules applicable in their territory in a limited number of matters which may fall within the scope of the law or regulation. The French Republic must respect the particularities of each of its territories. If it is one and indivisible, however, autonomy and differentiation must be guaranteed. The particular context of Polynesia and New Caledonia, both geographically, insular and politically, pushes us to humility by accepting the peculiarity of these French territories, which must be taken into account with their specificities. The text we need to validate mainly concerns competition, a crucial subject for French Polynesia. After a complex political and economic period, it has since the last elections – in April and May 2018 – been on the path to economic recovery. After the country suffered from political instability until its voting system changed in 2013, it was able to experience internal pacification after the last elections. The cessation of nuclear testing in 1996 led French Polynesia to take measures to reorient its economy, in particular through the development of infrastructure and increased exports. The ambitions pursued had been difficult to achieve and the economic and financial crisis of 2008 had amplified the difficulties. While the Territory's economy remains fragile, the positive signs seen since 2014 give hope for a recovery in the near future. The insularity of Polynesia, which is a reality, is a challenge in terms of competition. By specifying the control and sanctions in this respect, this text aims to solve this difficulty and to accompany Polynesia in its economic recovery. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This original simple text, which responds to a request from French Polynesia and New Caledonia, has been enriched by the joint work of the Senate and the Assembly. As such, we can only vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u14	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u15	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the original purpose of the bill before us today is to enable the Polynesian Competition Authority to fully carry out its monitoring and sanctioning tasks. The creation of the latter, in 2015, constituted a major economic reform for the territory of Polynesia and was the result of ten years of construction of Polynesian competition law. If that institution has powers similar to those of the Autorité de la concurrence nationale, no provision was made for the investigative powers of the agents of the Autorité or for remedies against its decisions, such provisions falling within the competence of the national legislature. The order that this bill proposes to ratify is intended to remedy this situation by extending to French Polynesia certain provisions relating to controls and sanctions in respect of competition. Thus, this text complements local PCA rules in criminal law, criminal procedure, contentious administrative procedure and judicial organization. It gives the Authority jurisdiction over compensation for damages suffered as a result of anti-competitive practices and gives the Authority's agents powers of investigation to carry out checks on premises for professional use. Some 4000 kilometres later in the Pacific, a large island, called "Le Caillou" – New Caledonia – has also recently established a Competition Authority, which faces similar difficulties as its Polynesian counterpart. I recall that the establishment of a Competition Authority in New Caledonia was the culmination of a long journey since it took eight years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u16	It's been complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u17	It wasn't a big deal, was it? It is a project that I have carried out since 2009, first as President of the Government of New Caledonia, then as a Member of this Assembly, with the assistance of a number of my colleagues, first of all Philippe Gosselin, whom I thank for his friendly and affectionate assistance throughout this work. A first step was taken in 2013, when New Caledonia adopted a law of the country introduced by the group of Caledonia Ensemble, known as the "antitrust law", aimed at avoiding excessive concentrations, detrimental to price moderation in an island economy, where the mix of genders is of absolute classicism. The overall objective of this law is that in the long term no company will be able to hold more than 25% of the market share of a sector. This rule is essential, not only to promote the competitiveness of the economy, but also to preserve the purchasing power of our island fellow citizens. I recall that prices in New Caledonia are on average twice as high as in metropolitan France, as evidenced by the Big Mac Index, which was created by The Economist in 1986 and compares the price of this hyperstandard product on a global scale. The national representation which, to be extremely reduced today, is nevertheless of an incomparable quality, must know that of the sixty-five countries concerned by this ranking, New Caledonia has the fifth most expensive Big Mac on the planet. Polynesia is right in front of us or just behind us in this ranking. This gives you an idea of how expensive our prices are. Beyond the Big Mac index, I would like to mention the INSEE 2010 study on price differences between the metropolis and the overseas. I am not talking about the one in 2015, where the discrimination sometimes suffered by French communities in the Pacific was expressed, since this study focused only on the overseas departments, as opposed to the one in 2010, which covered the entire ultramarine field. The study put a special focus on New Caledonia, which occupies the first place on the podium in terms of the cost of life, with prices that, for all sectors, are on average 50 per cent more expensive than in metropolitan France. If we focus on the question of the price of food, of which we know how sensitive it is for households, we find that a metropolitan household, which would have both happiness, in terms of living conditions, but also the misfortune, in terms of price, to settle in New Caledonia, would pay its food basket 89 per cent more expensive than it pays in metropolitan France. And there is no point in telling you that income is not 89 per cent higher in New Caledonia. This text is not just about introducing an additional part of the procedure, or giving an additional part of the power to an established authority. This is truly a major tool, which must ensure, in the long run, that the most basic rules of competition in a liberal economy can be respected. You understand why it is therefore necessary to entrust the responsibility to apply competition law to an independent administrative authority. Until then, it was the local authorities who had this responsibility, and it was not a very good thing. I recalled that the creation of this administrative authority was the result of a lengthy and difficult procedure. In the Senate, some reluctance has been expressed, and it appears that an invisible hand continues to act to prevent this territory from having the necessary means to promote competition. After lengthy debates in the National Assembly and in the Territory, the New Caledonia Competition Authority was finally established. A regime of incompatibility initially prevented us from installing it, but it was lifted by an amendment of the organic law of 25 April 2016, of which I had the honour to be rapporteur. We reached the end of this journey on March 2nd of this year – a big date! –, with the entry into office of the Competition Authority of New Caledonia. Throughout the previous legislature, I have defended the creation of this Authority, and I have no doubt that it will be able to carry out its various tasks: an advisory mission on any question of competition in the markets, which it already largely fulfils, through self-referrals or referrals to the Government; a preventive mission, to study compatibility with the competition rules of the Caledonian companies; a repressive mission, finally, to intervene in cases of anti-competitive practices and, where appropriate, to punish. On the merits, article 3 of the draft law, adopted by the Senate, making the members of the Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia subject to an obligation to declare interests and property status with the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, extended the scope of the bill to New Caledonia. This is an excellent thing that the members of the Competition Authority of New Caledonia were asking for. Legislative vehicles are scarce to introduce such provisions and should therefore not be missed. I am pleased that our proposal, which was also that of the rapporteur of the text, to extend to New Caledonia the investigative mechanisms currently enjoyed by the National Competition Authority has been heard and that an amendment to that effect has been adopted in the Committee on Laws. I would like to thank my colleagues Philippe Gosselin and Maina Sage, who supported this amendment in committee, as well as the rapporteur, whom I have already said she supported this proposal. While New Caledonia has jurisdiction over competition, the repression of fraud, the law of economic concentration, the regulation of prices and the organization of markets, the State remains competent to guarantee public freedoms – one of the last sovereign powers in our territory – and, of course, criminal proceedings. It is therefore up to the national legislature to determine the conditions for the intervention of New Caledonian agents in the context of the finding of violations of economic regulations, in so far as the powers of inquiry conferred affect individual freedom – in the case of visits or seizures – and are likely to lead to the finding of a criminal offence and the imposition of a criminal sanction. However, since 2009, changes in national competition investigative powers have not been extended to New Caledonia. This article is therefore necessary to update and extend the relevant provisions of the Commercial Code to New Caledonia. This will allow the officers of the Department of Economic Affairs of New Caledonia to have the same powers as agents sworn in in metropolitan France for the detection of violations of economic regulations. Clearly, and this is a major step forward, the National Authority, the Polynesian Authority and the Caledonian Authority will now have the same powers of investigation and sanction at the end of this legislative process. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore hope that this text can be adopted, as amended during the proceedings, so that competition in New Caledonia becomes a reality in all sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u19	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u20	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia are communities that have anticipated the application of the right to differentiation, which we want to promote by amending the Constitution, in the interests of the territories and the inhabitants, in order to liberate energies and better adapt the right to territorial specificities. France, a unitary country par excellence, has for too long imposed unity and, by refusing differences, imposed the same right for all, without exception. While this uniformity has fostered cohesion, it has increased the application of the law, sometimes not adapted to the context and territory. Our country has shown excessive rigidity, which has led to a certain immobilism and injustice. Over time, communities have acquired, overseas, special statutes and derogating rights. They have, for some, acquired relative autonomy, to different degrees. Polynesia thus enjoys administrative autonomy and New Caledonia, for its part, has a special constitutional status, with a certain political autonomy, much more extensive, which enabled it to regain serenity after a confrontational episode. Caledonian autonomy is embodied in remarkable institutions: the Congress of New Caledonia, a real parliamentary assembly, a government and a president, but also a Caledonian Competition Authority, chaired by Mrs. Aurélie Zoude - Le Berre, independent of the government, because of her status as an independent administrative authority New Caledonia is today at the heart of the news, since a consultation of the people on its future is to take place in a few months, in accordance with the Matignon Accords, which we have just celebrated last Tuesday. In the context of the fact-finding mission on the institutional future of New Caledonia, we were able to observe during the hearings that the autonomy granted to it is working. It has restored stability. The challenge of the referendum today is to write the following: go towards more autonomy; moving towards independence with a privileged link with France; or the status quo. Competition law in New Caledonia is a perfect example of the legal and institutional peculiarities of this autonomy. It also stresses the complexity of the situation, with a mixture of local and national law. I would remind you that the principle of free competition is a central element of the proper functioning of the market, but also of our society. It is, for the consumer, the assurance of price competition, and hence controlled prices. It is, for small traders and actors, a bulwark against the cartel of large operators and the guarantee of easy access to markets. Finally, it is a condition for encouraging the choice and diversity of products, such as services. The rules of division in national and local law ensure that the laws of countries adopted by Congress regulate very broad areas, such as competition law. But the national laws adopted by our Assembly are necessary, as long as public freedom is concerned. The Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia has very broad tasks: to ensure respect for free competition and to combat abuses of a dominant position; advise certain institutions on their request, by issuing advisory opinions; be seized for breaches of competition rules and conduct investigations to verify their reality; Finally, sanctioning non-compliance. It is within the framework of these latter powers that we are interested in the text on the agenda. These powers relate to public freedoms and therefore fall within the scope of national law. They aim to strengthen the powers of the Caledonian agents sworn in by the Autorité de la concurrence caledoniane, such as those of the Directorate of Economic Affairs. Indeed, these agents have not been able to benefit from the new rights and powers granted to their metropolitan counterparts since 2009, for lack of explicit extension by law. With this text, the situation will be restored. Expanded powers will now be given to Caledonian agents in the control of computer-based operations; on questions of identification and the procedure to be followed in the event of refusal of a declaration; on the possibility of using a borrowing identity to control the sale of goods via the Internet; on the use, finally, of free hearings. Finally, their authority will be strengthened and a considerably increased sanction will apply to those who obstruct their work. The penalty will be increased from six months to two years' imprisonment and the fine, above all, from €7500 to €300,000 – a very deterrent effect for offenders. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The addition of these powers is a real opportunity for New Caledonia and for its competition law, since it restores a unity of powers between the various competition authorities. That is why I will vote for this text without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u21	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u22	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to take a decision on a text that I think is characteristic in several respects. First of all, it is a text of a very specific scope, since it is limited territorially. Secondly, it is a text which makes a consensus in our House, all political parties together, as we were able to see during its examination in committee. It seems useful to me to remind him, because it is not so common. As a reminder, French Polynesia is governed by a special statute, pursuant to article 74 of the Constitution, which allows this overseas territory to exercise a number of powers. These powers include the setting of competition rules. The local authorities were thus able to adopt a body of rules adapted to the specificities of the territory of French Polynesia. This local legislation then had to be supplemented by the extension or adoption of national provisions in areas of State competence, such as criminal law or the protection of public freedoms. This extension was done by means of an order made by the Government, which we now have to ratify. Since the content of the text has already been very well presented by the rapporteur, I would like to go back to the almost unanimous acceptance of this order. In my view, this consensus reveals the progress of the idea of decentralization, here in the specific case of an overseas community, but perhaps tomorrow too, in a more limited framework, for the communities of metropolitan France. Indeed, if article 15 of the draft constitutional law currently under debate were adopted, the right to differentiation could be granted to local and regional authorities. Although the Republic is and remains one and indivisible, the territories from which we come have their specific characteristics, be they geographical, cultural or historical. Let us take, for example, my department, the Moselle, especially the east of the Moselle. Neighbors of Germany, our identity has also been created with the history, sometimes confrontational, that we share with this country. This is how we, Mosellans, to whom I associate our Alsatian cousins, benefit from many specificities that are of particular interest to us: a local dialect, the francic, which, as its name indicates, is derived from the kingdom of the Franks; a local law which, far from being merely a system derogating from the 1905 law, is a fully-fledged regulation that has inspired many legislative developments; a local egalitarian health insurance scheme that ensures better coverage of insured persons, while maintaining a balanced budget. We need to develop cross-border cooperation by inventing new structures. Legislative developments would help us to do so. Thus, by recognizing and devoting local particularisms, as we do here in this text, we facilitate the harmonious development of the territories, trusting their elected representatives. However, the right to differentiation is not the only subject that brings this text closer to institutional reform. Indeed, in the course of the debates in committee, our colleagues from France, who have been unsubstantiated, have raised the idea of authorizing the publication of dissenting opinions within the Polynesian Competition Authority. This is an interesting subject, and it will probably be discussed in the context of discussions on the draft constitutional law, or even the draft organic law on institutional reform. However, it is not certain that the Polynesian Competition Authority is the most appropriate institution for experimenting with the publication of dissenting opinions. Moreover, it is certainly not for this bill to provide for such provisions, which is why we will not be able to welcome the amendments on this subject. However, our colleague, Maina Sage, expressed in committee his interest in these proposals and his willingness to pass them on to the Polynesian authorities. Perhaps in this area, local authorities will prove to be a precursor, experimenting with mechanisms that will later be incorporated into ordinary law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is a second interest of local legislation, which this text indirectly honors. I therefore urge you to vote on this bill, which illustrates, through various aspects, the advantages of decentralization for our country, in this case within the specific framework of the status of overseas communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u23	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u24	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to apologize for my delay because I have had difficulty in reconciling the agenda of the Elysée, where we presented the Blue Book, in conclusion of the Overseas Assemblies, with the agenda of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u25	We had the same problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u26	The report of the Senate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u27	The Elysée does not respect Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u28	The Senate report of April 4, 2018, I said, recalled that the ratification of this order is essential to the success of the Polynesian Competition Authority. The consensus reached in the Senate on these issues is an example of the wealth of parliamentary debate, but we must not distance ourselves from the role of deputies, which is to monitor the action of the Government and the effectiveness of the law. That is why I regret, along with many colleagues, that the various decrees mentioned in the order have been delayed. We are even more concerned about the establishment by the Government of French Polynesia of a new barrier to beneficial competition, in this case equal access to productive activity for all actors. While the legislator is prepared to provide sufficient resources for the proper regulation of the market, the ability of the president of the community to deal with a case raises doubts about the full effectiveness of the scheme. This option is all the more critical as it will even constrain the action of the National Competition Authority when it is called upon to investigate certain cases. Article 2, introducing an article 9 bis to the ratified order, makes the National Competition Authority subject to the same conditions as those applicable to the Polynesian Competition Authority. In the event of a request for an investigation by the Polynesian Competition Authority to the Autorité de la concurrence nationale, the reference to the case will have the effect of disqualifying or even decredivising the action of the two authorities. In addition, there is another law of countries which makes it possible not to subject a contract between the territorial administration and an entity controlled by it to the obligations of publicity and competition. In a territory where former monopolies already exist, which tend to curb economic dynamism, the manoeuvre is questionable and may seem in contradiction with what we are advocating through the ratification of this ordinance. Nevertheless, we want to respect the choice of the Polynesians who elected their representatives and, with them, the way in which local society must be built. Trust is the first step towards community accountability. We must honour the constitutional commitment of the French nation to the autonomy of Polynesia, but it is also our responsibility to assess the effectiveness of the law and to identify any inconsistencies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] So let's go to the end of the process, but let's stay vigilant for the sake of Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u29	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u30	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u31	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u32	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u33	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u34	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a European resolution on sustainable agriculture for the European Union (No 1094, 1018 corrected).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u35	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u36	Madam President, the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteurs of the Committee on European Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, which entered into force in 1962, the CAP – the common agricultural policy – remains, despite numerous criticisms and reforms, one of the most successful achievements of the European project. It is indeed the reform of the CAP that we are going to discuss today by examining the European motion for a resolution on sustainable agriculture by our colleagues Alexandre Freschi and André Chassaigne. It comes before us at an opportune time, in full negotiation on the reform of the CAP for the period 2021-2027 and in a tense climate since the publication of the European Commission's legislative proposals on 1 June last. A 5% reduction in the budget is announced in current euro but, taking into account inflation, it could reach 16%. Such a reduction seems unacceptable given the importance of European aid in the income of French farmers: in 2015, the average amount of subsidy per farm was around 30000 euros. It is also worrying: the new CAP would eventually cripple farmers' investment capacities, at a time when they are expected to embark on a profound agro-ecological transition, not to mention that these subsidies allow for the maintenance of landscapes and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is an opportunity for national representation to send a strong and consensual message to Brussels. Indeed, it intends to support the French Government in its position in the Council. I would also like to point out that it is in line with the recent positions of the Government, which calls for a more ambitious budget for the CAP, alongside 20 Member States. I would like to pay tribute to the quality of the work carried out by our colleagues Alexandre Freschi and André Chassaigne in a trans-partisan approach. Far from budget debates alone, this work has the merit of questioning the challenges and the desirable agricultural model for sustainable agriculture in 2030. I welcome its unanimous adoption in the Committee on European Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I hope it will be the same today. To that end, we must insist on strong ideas and on the most unifying aspects. The resolution is not intended to provide opportunities for sectoral reforms but should remain broad-based. We will also have to discuss amendments that raise major issues, but not within the scope of the CAP. I am thinking in particular of aid to developing countries, plant protection research, the control of food labelling and the reform of the European Food Safety Authority, all major subjects in which Europe must step up its action. However, we must not blur our political message, it is about its credibility. The challenge, as we are all aware here, is to adapt our agriculture to change, to integrate it into a process of economic, social and environmental sustainability. We need a CAP that helps to develop efficient and innovative farms, a CAP that is committed to the challenges of preserving employment and the diversity of the territories. We must make it a real tool for ecological transition. It must propose a proactive policy to protect ecosystems and improve the health and nutritional quality of our products. The proposal also suggests that the European Union go further on two issues. The first is the promotion of proximity circuits in collective restoration, which we have discussed here. Europe must integrate this logic demanded by our citizens and communities. The second is land grabbing and access to agricultural land for new generations: the model of national regulation of authorisations to exploit must be promoted at European level. I am convinced that we all share here the desire for a dynamic and modernised CAP, reconciling the challenges of preserving the environment with the profitability of agricultural production. It will have to be ambitious both qualitatively and quantitatively. [[Mr Roland Lescure, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, as well as Messrs. Alexandre Freschi and André Chassaigne applaud]] No, the CAP is not "an old policy"! Its transformation into a common food and agricultural policy is the key to its sustainability. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity for national representation to make its voice heard in the European negotiations. Let us discuss this text, I hope, in the interests of farmers and consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u37	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u38	[[Smile]] Madam Chair, Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Minister Stéphane Travert, who is currently in the Senate to defend the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agri-food sector. I know you enjoyed this text that you will find soon. We have all been preparing for this for many months: on 2 May the Commission published its draft budget for the next post-2020 programming period and on 1 June its draft regulations for the future common agricultural policy. So we are entering a new phase of discussion and work. The Minister for Agriculture has organised numerous meetings on the subject, ensuring that all stakeholders involved in this policy are involved, such as, for example, on 19 December at a major conference in Paris, which brought together many representatives of the agricultural and agri-food sector, as well as representatives of civil society, NGOs, elected representatives of the national representation and European representation. The European Commissioner for Agriculture had also made the move, as had the Polish, Spanish and Irish Ministers and the Council Presidency. This success is due to the strong expectations of European citizens with regard to this policy, which we must hear. The CAP, which is one of the oldest European policies, is the only one that is truly integrated: in this it is a symbol for the whole European project. Of all these exchanges, the Government has first and foremost a pressing need for simplification, a simplification that should allow farmers to refocus on their work. We have seen this throughout the discussions in the General Food States: all sectors need to be transformed and better structured in order to create more added value and better distribute it throughout the food chain, leading to reasonable prices for all. The CAP must be able to accompany the schemes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The CAP must also continue to be a forward-looking policy that strengthens the position of farmers in trade negotiations. European agriculture, particularly French agriculture, is open to the world. We import products, we export a lot as well. The Prime Minister's recent visit to China has opened this market to French beef: we know the importance of such an opening. Of course, we import products: this is part of world trade, in which consumers certainly find their share, but also have the responsibility for their choices. We also have sensitive and strategic channels, which we must protect, support and defend. We are in a phase of intense bilateral trade negotiations. The Union, after negotiating with Canada, is preparing to enter a final phase with Mercosur and to open new negotiations with Australia and New Zealand. On this subject, the Government will carry the following message wherever necessary: we must ensure that European policies are coherent with each other. We cannot support sensitive sectors through the CAP, on the one hand, and not protect them in international trade negotiations, on the other. It would be unacceptable to reach an agreement, for example with Mercosur, which would endanger the beef and veal sector, the ethanol sector or the sugar sector. It would be unacceptable to reach an agreement when neither the production conditions nor the requirements are the same, without knowing, in particular, whether sanitary and phytosanitary requirements are met. It is about both the future of our agriculture and our demands for the benefit of French citizens and consumers, who are at the end of the chain. Finally, it would be unacceptable to reach an agreement which would not protect the symbols of the high quality of our productions, i.e. geographical indications.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u40	It is also appropriate for our farmers, especially the new ones, to be able to protect themselves against hazards of all kinds. To this end, risk management tools must be at the centre of the future CAP. From this point of view, there is no doubt that direct aid from the first pillar, decoupled aid and coupled aid, is the first brick in the safety net. However, the CAP must go further, much further, as climate hazards, in particular, are numerous and increasingly violent. We've seen him recently with the terrible storms that fell on our country and partially destroyed the coming crops. These aids, however, must also be accompanied by the accountability of all actors in each sector. Of course, the CAP must provide tools to ensure that farmers get cash aid quickly and easily. In this sense, the crisis reserve must evolve in order to be more flexible in use. All the tools that make it possible to intervene in the market must be preserved: public storage, private storage, possibility of voluntarily reducing production, as was done during the milk crisis in 2016. These tools should be used more quickly and effectively, without ever waiting for the situation to deteriorate. We therefore need operational and reactive market observatories in each sector. But the CAP must also accompany farmers in dealing with other emergencies, including climate change. Agriculture is an integral part of addressing the climate issue. It is the only sector able to offer, today, a credible alternative to the use of fossil materials. The CAP must accompany agriculture in this shift from society to a low-carbon economy. More generally, environmental concerns must be fully integrated into the CAP. Acting in favour of biodiversity or helping to improve the quality of water, air and animal welfare contributes to making our European agriculture the agriculture with the highest standards in the world. We need to go even further by promoting all quality schemes, organic farming and other certification schemes. From this point of view, the Commission's proposal, which incorporates incentives to improve practices in both pillars, is more in the right direction. Will the proposals for regulations which the Commission published on 1 June allow us to do all this? It is still too early to say: we are only at the beginning of a difficult negotiation. While positive elements are already included in these drafts proposed by the Commission, certain guidelines need to be clarified at a minimum. For the Government, one of the main points of attention will be the governance aspects. We can only be collectively satisfied that the Commission is proposing a comprehensive strategic approach which, in part, allows us to respond to our request for subsidiarity. The strategic plans, which must describe how States implement both the first and the second pillars, will make it possible to integrate European objectives in a cross-cutting way. Thus, environmental issues must be addressed both through the first pillar, with the conditionality or remuneration of environmental services, and through the second pillar, with agro-environmental and climate measures. However, under the pretext of flexibility and simplification which would concern only the Commission and it alone, this approach cannot, must not lead to a risk of distortion of competition between the Member States of the Union. The CAP must remain, by construction, a European policy and any renationalisation, even partial, would be a fatal blow to it. In the coming months, we will be fully mobilized, particularly in the budgetary area. On 2 May, the European Commission proposed an overall budget for the European Union of 27 in increase. However, in this budget, the CAP is down by 5% in current euros. In fact, it is a reduction of more than 15 per cent if inflation is taken into account and even 25 per cent for the second pillar of this policy. A quarter of the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u41	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u42	The Government's position is clear: it is unacceptable. On 31 May, the day after the solemn vote in the National Assembly on the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on healthy and sustainable food, the Minister of Agriculture went to Madrid, where he took the initiative of a joint memorandum with Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Finland to defend the budget at its current level. Since then, other Member States have mobilized and associated themselves with this approach: today, no less than 20 countries – which is not nothing – are clearly calling for the stabilisation of the budget at its current level. The Minister for Agriculture also acts to convince his German counterpart of the need to review the CAP budget. He received Ms Klöckner in Paris on 25 June for an in-depth bilateral exchange. Ministers agreed to continue their exchanges and to strengthen their collaboration. In particular, they undertook to work on a joint declaration, which could be presented at a forthcoming Agriculture and Fisheries Council. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Government intends to seize every opportunity to defend our ambition: a stable budget for a renewed, ambitious, simple and effective CAP. It therefore very much welcomes this proposal for a European resolution: the priorities referred to in it correspond perfectly to the French priorities for the negotiation of the European Union's budget and the tools of the future common agricultural policy, in their various components. I warmly thank the rapporteur, the authors of this European motion for a resolution and the entire national representation for their valuable support for the French position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u44	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Herth spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u45	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the authors of the motion for a resolution, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the UDI Group, Action and Independents welcome the initiative of this European motion for a resolution. In our view, indeed, our national Parliament and, more broadly, the national parliaments of the European Union must participate in the debates on the future of a major European policy. In doing so, they help to make a Europe too often caricatured and described as a cold administrative machine closer to the daily concerns of our fellow citizens. I am quite clear, Mr Secretary of State: this proposal for a European resolution must support the executive and our representatives in the European Parliament, who will be on the front line when the negotiations begin. This text must also allow us to send a message to the European Commission – it has also and perhaps was designed to do so. However, we must pay attention to how this European motion for a resolution will be read and understood. I will therefore defend amendments aimed at correcting certain formulations which have their full meaning in Paris, in the national debate, but which are false friends when they are heard in Brussels. The first topic is aid. To say that "we prefer prices to aids" is to use a slogan from a forum that we have often heard at the congresses of professional organisations, but it will inevitably be understood in Brussels as an acquiescence to the reduction of the budget. However, as the Secretary of State rightly said, the budgetary question is first and foremost: it is essential in the negotiations. The second topic concerns the concept of proximity market. In Brussels, the only relevant market is that of all the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the single market. Let us therefore also pay attention to how this concept will be understood when it reaches the ears of the European Commission. I also wonder about the position taken vis-à-vis the European Food Safety Authority. We all have an interest in strengthening this authority: also, any formulation that would call it into question, if only in part, would in my view be unhealthy. I am particularly interested in the regulation of authorisations for the placing on the market of plant protection products. I would like to point out that France has been at the forefront for ten years of a fundamental change in agronomic practices and a reduction in the use of plant protection products. Any other statement would only weaken France's position in these discussions, all the more sensitive as we are currently discussing topics such as the use of glyphosate. We are also doing some politics in this House. I would therefore like to express two substantive differences with the sponsors of this motion for a resolution. The first concerns land ownership. Of course, the fact that land grabbing deprives farmers of the world of their working tools is scandalous. There is, however, a second key to this reality: it can be seen as an infringement of the national sovereignty of the States that are the object of this seizure. In my view, the protection of land is therefore first and foremost an issue of national sovereignty. However, I am not sure that so far many members of this House would be willing to share this sovereignty or delegate it to the European Union, which would probably require us to revise some aspects of the housing, development and digital development bill quite quickly. My second difference concerns North-South relations. Of course, we can afford good feelings in our relations with developing countries. On the contrary, I believe that, in the current context of tensions in both the military and migration fields, the European Union would be in the interest of thinking about a true support strategy, in the context of targeted partnerships with the most difficult countries. I am thinking of the Maghreb countries, which are directly affected by climate change, armed conflict and all kinds of unrest, as are the countries of the sub-Saharan zone. It would be in the well-understood interest of the European Union to move forward in this direction. [[The rapporteur and the chairman of the committee applaud]] In conclusion, I would like to express my regret. I am fortunate to participate in the working group which brings together parliamentarians from the Bundestag and the National Assembly. We are writing extremely interesting texts, which must lead us to common working methods on the transposition of European directives, for example, but also on the preparation of future European negotiations. In the future, perhaps we will have the chance to take the time to consult with our German neighbours before voting on a proposal for a European resolution in the National Assembly. This would only strengthen the voice of France and Germany in European discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u46	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u47	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the authors of the motion for a resolution, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the European motion for a resolution by our colleagues Alexandre Freschi and André Chassaigne on sustainable agriculture for the European Union, which we are considering this morning. Of course, I agree with my colleague Dominique Potier, who was selected by the "Planet A" symposium on agriculture. You know his commitment in this area: he obviously regrets not being able to participate in our debates. Thinking about tomorrow's agriculture is a fundamental issue because we are all involved in this challenge. After decades of building intensive and industrial farming models, we realize the risks to our health and biodiversity. By selecting seeds and species, maximizing yields, reducing costs, we have lost sight of the goal of a healthy, sustainable and high-quality agriculture. Let us never forget that it is these agricultural models that condition our food and, directly, our health. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a challenge. What is he? It is about changing our agricultural model, transforming it to build an agriculture of the twenty-first century that can contribute to this great ecological transition that we all want. When the Government organized the General Food States – EGA – we decided to adopt a constructive stance. The aim was to reflect, with all the actors in the sector, on the agricultural, food and health issues. If we welcomed the idea of these general statements, it was to share our vision of an inclusive, environmentally friendly and economically sustainable agriculture for farmers. For six months, through the work of the fourteen EGA workshops, France has proved to be able to come together and innovate. Like many of my colleagues, I have organised particularly interesting public meetings with the citizens and actors of my Iserois territory. To say so, we consider that the wealth of this work has not given rise to an ambitious text, up to the challenges of tomorrow. The bill appeared below our expectations, although it could have been a tremendous rebound in the continuity of the previous quinquennium. While we have been fully involved in the development of this bill, only three of our ideas have been retained: the "high environmental value" label; group farming; multi-year and fair tripartite contracts between producers, processors and distributors. In this context, the New Left Group supports this proposal for a European resolution, which allows us to look back on strong ideas. The CAP is an investment that goes beyond borders and unites people around the same objectives. An area like the European Union, like China and the United States, must have an ambitious and trans-party agricultural policy. Reducing the CAP budget is a direct blow to the already inadequate incomes of our farmers. An ambitious common agricultural policy is a policy that promotes local, environmentally friendly agriculture. Short circuits must therefore be valued, as must organic farming, which is the only way to limit soil pollution and biodiversity damage. It is now time to build a policy to create jobs and wealth. That is precisely the objective of this European motion for a resolution. We welcome the fact that 50% of our amendments were adopted during the committee's consideration of this European motion for a resolution, in particular the one on the supervision of advertising for children. But we mustn't stop there. The New Left Group will defend, in the sitting, five essential amendments to imagine the agriculture of tomorrow. It seems essential to remind us that no agro-ecology will take place without relief; There will be no succession without a fair land policy. To monopolies, let's substitute diversity! To the status quo, let's prefer innovation! We are convinced of the need to support the development of associations of producer organisations. It is through these associations that the multi-year tripartite agreements between producers, processors and distributors can be established. Think well that no agroecology will develop without an ambitious research plan. The cessation of chemical inputs by 2021 should not be an injunction from the public authorities, but rather a common objective for the fulfilment of our society. At the international level, the recent debates on the implementation of CETA or the agreement with Mercosur provide an opportunity to defend a new generation of treaties, modern in their scope but respectful of our farmers and their farms. We are committed to respecting food sovereignty. In support of this, we will pursue the ambition of a major policy of co-development, conceived as an investment of prevention. [[The rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, Mr André Chassaigne and Mr Alexandre Freschi applaud]] If all these proposals are taken up, we can say that we will have sent a positive message. In any case, we support this European motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u48	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u49	[[Smile]] He's got punch! You can see he's playing football!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u50	In committee, the rapporteur, the authors of the European motion for a resolution and the chairman of the committee cited Edgard Pisani, who founded the common agricultural policy a little over fifty years ago. It is presented everywhere as the craftsman of the modernization of French agriculture. Edgard Pisani could have contented himself with these praises, fell asleep covered with incense and accepted the construction of a statue in his lifetime to pay tribute to his work. As an honest man, an intellectual who refuses to lie to himself, he has done something more courageous: at the end of his life, he has made a critical assessment of his political work. He said, "I wouldn't have imagined this policy going that far, and I blame myself. I was fascinated by the technical constraints of tractors. I blame myself now, honestly but deeply, for not having set a limit to the re-memberment." He began to expose foreign agricultural plants to their environment and indifferent to their environment. He wondered how it was possible to reverse. He accused the market, which was necessary as a mechanism, but hated it as a law, and called for a change in the common agricultural policy, in particular the first pillar, i.e. no longer to base aid on production. It was therefore the founder of the common agricultural policy who called for a new direction, a new course and new aims. Since self-sufficiency has been achieved in France almost forty years ago, we can no longer set ourselves the only production as an objective – and we must no doubt end also with the export mission of French agriculture. This is the path that the founder of the common agricultural policy has taken. But the CAP, it continued as before – I was going to say, quoting Rimbaud, as a drunken boat, except that it evokes rather a ship that struggles to turn and continues, by the force of inertia, to want only to produce, with the obsession of markets and free competition, as shown, a few years ago, the end of milk quotas and, most recently, that of quotas on beets, and with a desire to plunge French agriculture into free trade through international agreements, despite the urgent nature of the crisis of incomes and the risk of disappearance for the agricultural world. I was in Lorraine this week with Dominique Potier as part of the land mission. We know that in the last 20 years, about one in two farmers has disappeared. In Lorraine, this mechanism of disappearance of agriculture – this "hemorrhage", to take over the term of the president of the Chamber of Agriculture – continues and is not contained. This social emergency for the agricultural world, as well as an environmental emergency, must therefore be addressed. It is not just about accusing agriculture of the disappearance of 75% of flying insects in Europe for 30 years, but it has its share. In 'common agricultural policy', the first word is 'political'. This means that we must make a common choice, and give us priorities: in the ship, we must have a captain, and he must not be guided by inertia. And since I am talking about a ship, I remember that I visited the European Commission to conduct interviews – there is a real glass and steel liner on the outskirts of Brussels. The president of the fruit and vegetable branch of the FNSEA told me that there were small soldiers there from Milton Friedman – and this is the case: this common agricultural policy has been left in the hands of technical decision-makers in Brussels, not politicians. This farmer told me, after having gone to the European Commission for a meeting with heads of service, that the person in charge of the milk dossier had announced to them the end of the quotas, that he did not believe it but that there was an army of types based on Friedman – no regulation, the invisible hand of the market! That's what we have to get out of. We must keep the budgets of the common agricultural policy – I read it well in the resolution! – but to transform it deeply, shake it, upset it, to revolutionize its priorities. It is no longer about all-va production, at any social cost and at any environmental cost, but about the ecological transition: saving air, water, land, earthworms, hannetons and swallows – a new study shows the disappearance of the latter! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. The rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, Mr André Chassaigne and Mr Alexandre Freschi applaud]] The question that should haunt us, the only question that is worth asking, is what we will leave to our kids. We will therefore vote in favour of this resolution, which calls for this shift towards sustainable agriculture and, in particular, for the strengthening of short-term channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u51	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u52	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, Mr Alexandre Freschi, ladies and gentlemen, I am rather proud of this European motion for a resolution drawn up in the Committee on European Affairs with my colleague Alexandre Freschi, which calls for a defence of the common agricultural policy as a strategic policy for Europe and for France. Our proposal was adopted unanimously by the Committee on European Affairs on 31 May and examined on 20 June by the Committee on Economic Affairs, where it was the same. National representation has therefore been able to mobilize to achieve a common and shared vision which, I hope, Mr. Secretary of State, will be useful in supporting the Government in negotiations in the Council that are expected to be difficult, even rough. Indeed, as you know, a bad wind blows on this founding policy of the European Union, which is its most integrated policy. This is the first time since 1962 that the CAP budget has been reduced and this envisaged reduction, estimated at 12%, is more than significant. In the information report entitled The CAP of the last chance for sustainable agriculture, of which I am the co-rapporteur with my road partner, Alexandre Freschi, and which accompanies our motion for a resolution, we recalled that the CAP represents a limited budgetary cost for a fully integrated policy. Indeed, its implementation is at a lower cost than if Member States had pursued separate agricultural policies. As you know, the other world agricultural powers are far from abandoning an ambitious and interventionist agricultural policy. Thus, when the US Farm Bill invests $1 to support its 1.8-producing agricultural sector, the CAP spends €1 for the European agricultural sector that produces 4. With this motion for a resolution, we want a common vision to emerge and move forward at European Union level for sustainable agriculture and food. To this end, the CAP should be transformed as soon as possible into a PAAC, or a common agricultural and food policy. This European agriculture, which we call for, is based on the three pillars of sustainability: an environmental pillar, of course, an economic pillar and, of course, a pillar of social progress. There is no hierarchy between these pillars, which are inseparable, and none should stifle another. Our motion for a resolution and our information report present the major challenges and strong guidelines for a new European agricultural model based on this sustainability. The CAP must support public environmental goods more and its aid must be conditional on effective results, but it must also ensure decent incomes for farmers by better regulation of the market. The concept of food sovereignty is central. It must therefore be revisited by promoting a trade policy that respects the agricultural exception and the principle of reciprocity. I would like to reiterate that this text must allow us both to draw up the basic guidelines that we support for a renewed and strengthened CAP, responding to the agricultural and food challenges of tomorrow, and at the same time, Mr Secretary of State, to support France's position in its desire to preserve a strong CAP. Having considered this proposal for a European resolution, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs – which I thank the President and the rapporteur for having dealt with it so quickly – considered that the European Commission's proposal to cut the CAP budget to satisfy new European policies was unacceptable and irresponsible. I also note that this common text and – something rather rare here – consensus is not the result of abandoning fundamentals. It is not a compromise text without flavour and smell: on the contrary, we are asserting strong guidelines, so that France maintains a leading position in Europe in the field of the common agricultural policy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add that this is a text that is of particular interest to me, both in terms of the content of the proposals put forward in it and in terms of the collective method of work which accompanied its drafting with my colleague co-rapporteur and the members of the two committees. I therefore call on you today to give concrete expression to this call for the responsibility and maintenance of a CAP that responds to the agricultural issues before us. You will have understood that the group of the Democratic and Republican Left, that is the least of the things, will vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u53	Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u54	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, my dear colleague André Chassaigne, ladies and gentlemen, in order for the European project to remain faithful to its original spirit, it is now necessary to be bold. This is what we are proposing with this European motion for a resolution, which is the opportunity for us to be the architects of the next European agricultural model that we want for our citizens. The CAP is not a policy of the past, as President Juncker said. On the contrary, it bases its legitimacy in an intact modernity: building at European level a response to the food challenge, both quantitatively and qualitatively. In fact, it is a strategic policy for Europe. Thus, the essence of bringing together our different sensitivities around this European resolution reflects our common determination around a strong and unambiguous position towards the CAP. It is for these reasons that this European motion for a resolution was voted on by all the political groups of the National Assembly, both in the Committee on European Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This resolution, as has already been pointed out, has several objectives. The first is to affirm the position of the National Assembly on a fundamental issue for our farmers, agriculture and rural life. It is then a question of supporting the Government in negotiations that, as you know, will be difficult. Finally, it is a matter of raising the ambition of a new European agricultural model, in line with the interests of producers and, of course, consumers. This European resolution is indeed for us, Members, the means to support France's position in its desire to maintain and strengthen the next common agricultural policy. You know the context: with regard to the CAP, the approach taken by the European Union is restrictive, if not Malthusian. What this resolution says is that it is inconceivable for the National Assembly to accept the fall in the budget allocated to the CAP in order to satisfy new Community policies, if necessary. It is also the position of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Stéphane Travert, who gathered around him some 20 countries in order to reaffirm the scope of the CAP's stakes, which is all the more necessary in a context where, as the Secretary of State pointed out earlier, giants such as the United States and China are investing massively in defending their agricultural models. This is no time to weaken. It must be measured that at present the CAP represents a limited budgetary cost for a policy which is the only fully integrated policy of the European Union. Outside this framework, the cost of State-by-State implementation of separate agricultural policies would be much higher than the current 30 cents per day per capita of the CAP budget. This European motion for a resolution thus calls on Europe not only to propose only a policy of aid – except, of course, in the event of a crisis – but rather to project itself into an innovative model of support and emancipation for the agricultural world. This policy should enable the research to move forward, producers to change their business and to restore a link of trust with consumers. The European agricultural model referred to in this resolution is thus based on three inseparable and unhierarchised pillars, which André Chassaigne recalled earlier and which are marked by the seal of sustainability: economic sustainability, in order to guarantee decent incomes for our farmers, who are now too dependent on European aid, environmental sustainability, with the remuneration of virtuous agricultural practices, and social sustainability, because there is no sustainable agriculture without sustainable farmers. We therefore propose the strengthening of coupled aid for the most employment intensive sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u56	This text promotes an innovative agricultural model for sustainable agriculture by 2030, based on a triptych: to ensure farmers a central place in the production process and a decent income, to agree on an increase in the range of European agriculture, allowing the preservation of biodiversity and traceability of products, and finally to reaffirm the strategic nature of the CAP, designed to ensure the food sovereignty of the European Union. This resolution proposes that the concept of food sovereignty be revisited in order to move from a common agricultural policy to a common agricultural and food policy that meets the expectations of European consumers, in terms of food security, nutrition policy, access to quality food for all, diversity and quality of agricultural and food supply. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups. Mr André Chassaigne, the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee applaud]] Faced with the new challenges of our society, it is time to combine rurality and modernity in a vision of the future. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote for this motion for a European resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u57	Good intervention, Comrade Freschi!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u58	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u59	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to greet our colleagues André Chassaigne and Alexandre Freschi for their work – both the report and the motion for a resolution. The Republicans Group, as has been said in committee, shares very many guidelines of the proposal and the report, which I will not mention all of them. Of course, we stand up against the dark cut in the CAP budget and strongly reaffirm the central role played by our farmers, who must be protected from economic and climatic hazards, but also and above all be paid at the right level of their labour, in a stable way and so that producers are no longer the adjustment variable of the largest players. We also support certain necessary developments in the CAP, as it is true that this system no longer responds optimally to current challenges, both in terms of distribution between small and large producers and of environmental and social issues. However, we are concerned. Today, in the extremely binding multi-annual financial framework for the CAP between 2021 and 2027, the European Commission envisages the lowering of the oldest and most effective of the truly integrated policies, in force for more than 50 years and now accounting for 39% of the Union's budget, distributed among 14 million farms for 44 million jobs, with an unrivalled performance ratio in the world. The unfortunate exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union could have – should have! – to be an opportunity to reform in depth this old Community policy, now rid of its most ardent contradictor. But that was not the case. In the 2021-2027 budget, the CAP will increase from EUR 408 billion to EUR 365 billion, representing a 5% decrease in current euros and a minimum of 15% in constant euros, endangering our farmers, whose incomes are composed of 47% of agricultural aid. The Minister of Agriculture stated that this proposal was unacceptable and jeopardized the viability of farms. I congratulate the Government on its late awareness. But, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are crying today about the widespread milk... What has the Government done to prevent the European Commission from making this proposal? Nothing! To the repeated alerts of elected officials from all sides at the beginning of the year, you replied that it was "fake news". The real "fake news" were above all the wishes of the President of the Republic to the rural world, guaranteeing farmers a CAP with preserved ambitions! The reality is that you have done nothing to try to save the CAP. As you may be gesturing, insurging yourself, you will be presenting this motion for a resolution to pretend to react: I am afraid it is too late. You thought you would make Europe your playground, as you did in France, where you tell some of them what they want to hear in order to better divert their eyes from the consequences of your policy. But it didn't work. The French government is at the heart of a game of deception to the exclusive detriment of our farmers. In France, you talk to them about the general states of food and fair remuneration; in Brussels, you sacrifice them on the altar of the "start-up nation". Instead of dealing with this motion for a resolution, tell farmers that, for the first time, France believes that agriculture is no longer a European priority to be defended. Tell them, farmers, that in your scoping note for the next multiannual financial framework of the Union, you are only talking about the CAP in the second half of the document, making de facto France's top priority in the European budget for the first time. For you, if you follow your scoping note, the CAP goes after Brexit, collective security, defence, migration, education, research and even fiscal flexibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u60	You'll go and tell the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u61	Worse, you never mention the need to sanctify the CAP budget. So assume the consequences of your decisions! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, instead of denouncing an attack on France's interests, you would better denounce the duplicity and hypocrisy of the government that you support. During his hearing in the Senate on 24 May, the European Commissioner for the Budget, Günther Oettinger, put Paris in front of his double speech, explaining that, at the last negotiating meetings, "France's position has always been to cut the budget". This double speech, moreover, is the hallmark of your government as far as Europe is concerned: a double speech on the CAP, but also on immigration, where you are asking for new European rules before even applying French laws. Unfortunately, behind this double speech lies a succession of failures, seen or to come, of your majority on the European scene: failure on a common policy to manage the migration crisis; Failure to implement a new Dublin; Failure to preserve Strasbourg's status as a European capital; Failure to set up transnational lists, rejected by our European partners and censored by the Constitutional Council; Failure to find partners in your government, as each election, in each country, increasingly isolates Emmanuel Macron on the European stage; Finally, failure on the sacralisation of the CAP budget. Ladies and gentlemen, over the months, the Government has plunged itself into a denial of reality. Settling the wall, its majority is now attempting a communication operation in the form of a desperate rescue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u62	Thank you for your support! It's national union!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] Elected the Republicans, we deplore the Government's abandonment of our French farmers in Brussels. However, in view of the need to send a strong message to Europe in order to catch up with the government's lack of confidence and inertia in Parliament, we will vote on this proposal for a European resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u64	It's doing us too much honor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u65	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM Group will enthusiastically vote on this motion for a resolution. I would like to emphasize the quality of those who wrote it, Alexandre Freschi and André Chassaigne, great connoisseurs of the agricultural world. They both know the role that this text must play: to bring the French voice into the European universe. It was a matter of starting from the work we have done in this House on the general states of food, bearing in mind that our farmers earn, for half of them, only 350 euros a month, that every two or three days a farmer commits suicide in France, that those who feed men can no longer feed themselves. It was also necessary to reimagin the common agricultural policy, this European ambition to eat well, without sticking to technical measures but by designing what will be in Europe and France food and agriculture. That is what it is all about: to ensure that men and women do not compete on European territory, which leads to bad food, that the poorest should be content with cheap food that would not be healthy, when those who have the means could afford to eat organic food. It is a question of bearing the particular voice of France, its agricultural model, its family farm, unrelated to what we want to sell ourselves: the European agricultural firm. This motion for a resolution bears in it the work we have done in the Chamber. It defends a European agricultural ambition, which will have to be based, of course, on technical elements, but which must above all consider that the soil of French soil and European soil do not belong to private companies which will do what they want, but that, as we were taught at school, the land is the foster mother, in every European country. We must ensure that French soil and European soil are respected in their diversity. That is the project that we will vote with you. All too often, the French Parliament does not have a voice in the European chapter. From time to time, we see German ministers going to their national parliaments in advance, to be entrusted with a European roadmap drawn up by the nation – that is, its representatives, the deputies. What you have written, Mr Chassaigne, Mr Freschi, is the French roadmap, which should be applied to the European Parliament. Let us not be mistaken: beyond what we must defend today with regard to agriculture, it is the European model, through the CAP, which is the most important element of European economic policy, which we will defend; It is a model of relations between each country, which goes far beyond agricultural relations. Of course, it will be necessary to rethink the short circuits, to highlight the bio, to influence, in the second pillar of the CAP 2020, the investments of the future, such as the digital or mechanization that the bio will need. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, NG and GDR groups. – Mr André Chassaigne and Mr Alexandre Freschi applaud]] We will accompany you in carrying out the measures contained in this motion for a resolution. You can count on MODEM.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u67	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u68	I now call, in the committee's text, the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u69	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, on this item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u70	I would like to take the floor on the single article, since non-attached persons did not have the opportunity to speak in general discussion. So I will try to keep everything going in two minutes. The CAP is unfortunately indispensable to our farmers, who depend on it, and the dark cuts planned are more than worrying for our agriculture. It is not pointless to remind again and again that a third of our farmers earn less than 350 euros per month. If we have to act, it's so that they can have a decent income. This requires fair remuneration, but also the provision of protection against natural hazards, such as drought, frost or floods. This CAP, we are talking about it in the French Parliament. It therefore seems essential to me to make clear that it must preserve France's food sovereignty before preserving that of Europe. The French are keen to ensure that food products meet French and not first European standards, because our standards are often much more demanding than those of other European countries. In fact, there are large disparities in agricultural production within the European Union. It is a real unfair competition that exists, for example, between French and Spanish wines. Since the time that the question arises, it would be a good idea to look seriously at it. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of short circuits. They not only reduce greenhouse gases, but are also and above all a way to preserve biodiversity, the rhythm of the seasons, the roots and the protection of farmers. The French must also be made aware of the importance of the proximity of agricultural production. [[Ms. Nicole Dubré-Chirat applauds]] Of course, I will vote in favour of this resolution. But the common agricultural policy must not miss out on these issues, which determine the very future of our farmers and farmers. Let's protect them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u71	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u72	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, I take the opportunity of this debate on agricultural issues to question the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture on the future of the veterinary school in Champignelles, in the heart of Puisaye, in Yonne. The future of agriculture is also the future of rural life, which also requires real structural decisions on land-use planning. For more than forty years a branch of the National Veterinary School of Maisons-Alfort, under the authority of the Minister of Agriculture, has been established in Champignelles. For thirty years, very powerful regional investments were made there, under the leadership of my predecessor Jean-Pierre Soisson and then François Patriat. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] A few days ago, we learned that your government was considering closing the Champignelles antenna. I solemnly say this: we do not accept it, because we believe it is important that this school of veterinary training be placed in the heart of Burgundy territory in Yonne, in order to maintain a true link with the agricultural world and the rural world. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I seized a few days ago your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, to ask him, as a matter of urgency, that a crisis meeting be held at the ministry, with the elected representatives of the territory, the president of the departmental council of Yonne, the president of the regional council of Burgundy-Franche-Comté and all the territorial actors. The veterinary centre of Champignelles must have a future in the heart of Puisaye, in the heart of Burgundy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u73	We come to the amendments. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u74	This amendment is intended to facilitate farmers' access to land. The report by MEP Maria Noichl of 30 March 2017 refers to the concentration of agricultural land in the European Union. A directive must provide new solutions to soil artificialisation and land grabbing. The renewal of generations in agriculture is a sine qua non for ensuring the safety and quality of our food, producing economic and environmental added value, and developing the entire territory. This European priority is based on tools for regulating the land market that are now weakened. Tomorrow, the rules governing the protection and sharing of land must make possible the freedom to undertake for all and guarantee the use of land as a common good, in the long term. A responsible structural policy must favour the human factor rather than speculative, favouring diversity at the expense of monopolies. As I pointed out in the general discussion, there will be no agroecology without succession or succession without just land policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u75	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u76	Madam Member, you have amended your amendment since it was examined in the Committee on Economic Affairs to turn it into a recital. I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u78	[[Murmures]] [[Smile]] The problem is that the amendment would bring the issue of land back to the European dimension. It is a national competence and must be ensured that it remains so. This provision risks a reading that it would be acceptable to place land under European authority. Second element: Jean-Bernard Sempastous is currently conducting a fact-finding mission on this major subject, and a bill is expected to be considered in 2019, with pending proposals. On the other hand, I agree with you on the substantive analysis, namely the importance of the issue of land grabbing and land concentration. The Government therefore gave an unfavourable opinion, but it would carefully observe the Assembly's vote. No, it's not a threat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u79	It's wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u80	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u81	I am part of Mr Sempastous's land information mission. Nevertheless, land has a European dimension, which was raised, for example, in Lorraine on Monday, about important cross-border purchases. The mission's proposals should not then be rejected on the pretext that they are not feasible within the European framework – a speech that we have heard many times in the agricultural field. That is why I am in favour of adopting amendments on land in the context of our discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u82	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u83	I would like to support the analysis of the Secretary of State. We are in the midst of a delicate work, committed at the request of the Government, which concerns the redefinition of relations between owners and donors, and the renovation of the status of rent. To open the debate at this stage at European level is to invite the European Commission to put its grain of salt there; It will do so on the basis of the average of European points of view. But what is the average between the position of Poland, arch-bouted on national sovereignty as soon as it comes to its lands, and that of Italy, which has lived for centuries with the great properties of the nobility? It seems to me very risky to open this door at this point. The European dimension could be addressed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u84	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u85	I would like to abound in Mr. Herth's sense. We have already had this discussion in committee: it would not be appropriate at this stage to introduce a policy bias at European level. Land sharing, the new generation of farmers, the size of farms are real issues, but given the level of heterogeneity of the rules at European level in this area, transferring the debate at this level could prove counterproductive for the sharing of agricultural land in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u86	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u87	I would like to recall, as the rapporteur has noted, that we have formulated our amendment as a recital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u88	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u89	In paragraph 18, the words "under the poverty line" should be replaced by the words "that a third of them earn less than the income of active solidarity". That seems more precise to me. Today, in France, an individual is considered poor when his monthly income is less than 846 euros. However, one third of farmers earn less than 350 euros per month. It is therefore necessary to be more precise in the drafting to get as close as possible to the reality of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u91	Madam Member, the RSA is a purely French system that will not speak to our European neighbours. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u92	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u93	As I mentioned earlier, unfair competition is a scourge that affects too many farmers and wine producers. I take the example of Spain, which allows the use of plant protection products banned in France, which are often cheaper. The wine produced from the vines treated with these substances is then exported to France. It is not fair for our winemakers and wine growers, nor for French consumers who are not informed of these conditions of production. That is why I am proposing this amendment after paragraph 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u95	Your amendment addresses the problem of controls, which are the responsibility of national administrations: in France, DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention. I do not think that our fellow citizens would like the European Union to come and monitor national legislation in situ. In fact, the over-transposition of European directives and over-regulation are more discussed, which is the responsibility of Parliament and the Government. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u97	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u98	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u99	It is not a question of monitoring French regulations, but of harmonising the various European laws. We cannot explain to the French that within the European Union, we obey the same rules, but that they finally admit derogations, particularly in respect of plant protection products. If certain products are considered dangerous in France but can be used in other countries of the European Union, and then the foodstuffs produced with the help of these substances are imported into France, this creates de facto unfair competition, and I do not think it can be accepted. Either the legislation on the use of plant protection products is harmonised or the importation of foodstuffs produced with prohibited substances is prohibited in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u100	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u101	Our colleague Ménard is putting his finger on something very important. We are imposing increasingly stringent standards on our farmers, but we are importing products that are not subject to them. Today, even if controls represent a prerogative of the French authorities, it must be noted that this does not work! We import cherries treated to products banned in France; wine arrives in the department of Hérault, at Mme Ménard, whose method of production is also prohibited in our country. Is the French Parliament therefore reduced to saying that this is not working, but that we are continuing in this way? We must create at European level the protections necessary for a fair balance between trade relations and standards that push for quality and truly fair competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u102	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u103	It would still be useful if the Government could speak. With this amendment, our colleague is asking an essential question. I am a Member of Parliament for Irancy, where cherries are produced. The French-French ban on dimethoate was decided by a government for health reasons, but at the same time cherries continue to be imported from countries that still allow the use of this substance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is completely incoherent, both economically and in terms of public health. I do not understand the Government's silence, which manifests either indifference or disinterest. Of course, the debate is about a resolution and not about a law, but in order to inform the National Assembly, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, who is also president of the majority party, should give Emmanuel Macron's position on these issues. Is it a question of indifference or contempt, or, on the contrary, a commitment to find a solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u105	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u106	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. The rapporteur and the chairman of the committee applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to consult the text, in particular paragraph 44, which makes a very strong demand: "Requires the European Commission to ensure respect for the principle of reciprocity and equal conditions of health, environmental and production competition applicable to imports of agricultural products from third countries in relation to the products of the European Union". This statement admits no ambiguity. On the other hand, to include your wording in the recitals would be to question the other European states by accusing them of failing to comply with European standards. We are not going to include in the French proposals on the common agricultural policy frontal attacks on the other Member States of the Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u107	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u108	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u109	Mr Larrivé, thank you for joining us recently. The discussion started earlier, I have already had the opportunity to speak. Obviously, you have not had the opportunity to listen to my remarks, or even to read the motion for a resolution that we are debating, which André Chassaigne did well to quote. Perhaps you did not even have time to listen to one of the speakers in your group who criticized the Government for having treated agriculture as the second most important European priority, and who saw it as contempt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u110	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u111	You are, of course, referring to an important subject in your constituency, but clearly putting the question of the common agricultural policy in the second place. I invite us to continue the discussion in the spirit of serenity which enabled the rapporteur to work. I believe that on this subject, we are all on the same political line...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u112	No, we're not on Emmanuel Macron's line!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u113	... and it is not necessarily necessary to play small political games, one vis-à-vis the other. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You know that the ban on dimethoate dates back to 2016 and that it was decided on the basis of a fundamental criterion: the health of our citizens. This subject has been discussed in the Chamber. Some mentioned Turkey, which was important for treated cherries, while dimethoate was also banned in Turkey. It is up to the French health authorities – which do not belong to a political majority – to ensure that no cherries entering the French market pose a risk to the health of French consumers. These topics should bring us together rather than oppose us. I invite us to continue our discussions with the quality they have had since the beginning of the morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u114	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u115	I've been here all along, Mr. Castaner. First of all, I understand very well that a Member of Parliament can arrive a little late: there is no need to question him in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u117	Secondly, it is not because we are going to reach a text adopted unanimously in this House that the disagreements must be settled during the time of the debate. For we have substantive disagreements, on which I hope we will come back later this morning. It is a question of whether we want more protectionism, or whether we want free trade at all costs. The Government and the Party On the move, free trade is being promoted, not only at European level but at global level. On this point, we have a disagreement. The question of dimethoate is very interesting from this point of view, because France, by banning this substance, has played the role of a spearhead: it has led other European countries behind it that have banned it on their territory. Unfortunately, these political decisions have not always been implemented. I have taken a very close look at this issue because it bears the seeds of what a future European agricultural policy could be, in a future European Union where, when one country says no, it would lead to others. The problem is that customs cannot afford to do their job. They do not have the means to control whether dimethoate has actually been used on the import cherries. This product, which is prohibited in principle, is therefore present in practice, causing environmental dumping which is unfavourable to French producers, to these arborists who are already struggling to pay their wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u118	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 16, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u119	This amendment allows us to come back to the issue of land regulation. It is intended to clarify that the "public regulation" referred to in paragraph 27 must be national. I corrected it because the first version referred to "public national regulation" and I finally preferred "national public regulation". But on the substance, I raised the issue in the general discussion and I will not go back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u120	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u121	The purpose of this amendment is to provide a simple clarification. Paragraph 28 refers to "natural disabilities". I believe that the concept of disability is relevant to people, not to agricultural activities. It would therefore seem more accurate to me to refer to "climate hazards" and "natural constraints".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u123	Madam Member, the word "disability" clearly describes the inability of certain territories to develop with equal arms vis-à-vis the plains. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u125	First of all, Mrs Ménard, I fully share your semantic analysis. However, the expression you are contesting refers to the compensatory allowance for natural disability – that is the name of the measure at European level. This mechanism of the second pillar of the CAP is important, particularly in France. This has been discussed in this House, since about 4000 new municipalities have been eligible since the national map was revised. Although I understand the reasons for the amendment, I must therefore give an unfavorable opinion on behalf of the Government. The terminology used in the resolution must correspond to that used in European regulations. While these regulations would have to be changed, they would be difficult: the eligibility of aid during the transitional period could even be called into question in the event of an appeal. In substance, therefore, I understand your intention, but I would ask you to withdraw this amendment. Its adoption would blur our message and put our farmers at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u126	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u127	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u128	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u129	As I said earlier, we are in an ecological emergency, with 75% of insects disappearing in 30 years and the accelerated disappearance of birds, which the researchers consider catastrophic. The agricultural system has a share of responsibility in this crisis. He is not the only one, of course, but he has his share of responsibility for this accelerated disappearance of species. In particular, it contributes to 50% of greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we would like to add to this motion for a resolution an additional recital after paragraph 29: "Considering the impact of the agricultural system on ecosystems, biodiversity and climate change".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u131	Mr President, we have adopted in committee a more precise recital, which is set out in paragraph 36, and which corresponds to your request. This recital reads as follows: "Considering that the future reform of the CAP must contribute to the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development and the objectives of the Paris Agreement". I would point out that the Paris Agreement includes numerical objectives: this wording is more effective and more binding. I therefore suggest that you withdraw this amendment, informing you right now that I will give an opinion in favour of Amendment No 10 from your group. In the absence of a withdrawal, the committee's opinion on Amendment No 9 is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u133	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u134	Mr Ruffin, do you withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u135	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u136	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u137	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 33. As I said in the general discussion and in the presentation of Amendment No 29, there are considerable disparities between the rules applicable in the various European countries. Mr Chassaigne referred earlier to paragraph 44, but this paragraph refers only to the disparities between third countries on the one hand and European countries on the other. I repeat, however, that disparities between Member States are also a problem: one day it will have to be taken at arm's length.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u139	Madam Member, the fact that foodstuffs must comply with standards, whether they are issued by France or by the European Union, is of paramount importance. The deletion of this paragraph is tantamount to challenging the quality of these standards, which is another debate. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u141	As much as I supported your analysis earlier, Madam Member, as much as this is not the case here. It would be unfair and even irresponsible to say that European standards do not guarantee the health of consumers. For many years, France has been defending at European level – and applying in its implementation measures – the highest standards of health safety. This requirement is necessary to ensure consumer protection. I believe that Europe has contributed to the progress made by the Member States on this point. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u142	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u143	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u144	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u145	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u147	This amendment to the POSEI – a programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity – is in the right direction. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u149	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u150	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u151	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u153	Your amendment puts us in a European, not a national, perspective. I therefore give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u154	I have before me an amendment No 23 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 33. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u155	The recital that we propose to insert by this amendment is consistent with the one in paragraph 23, which came from the adoption in committee of the rapporteur's amendment EC39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u156	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to support sub-amendment No 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u157	Madam Member, as amended by this sub-amendment, the recital you are proposing to add is very much in line with the recitals we have amended. It is not appropriate to rely on an international treaty on agricultural land. We must not bind our hands with international commitments on this issue, especially since these are problems specific to the European Union. If this sub-amendment were not adopted, the committee's opinion on Amendment No 23 would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u159	The Government is against the amendment as it stands. If the sub-amendment is adopted, he will rely on the Assembly's wisdom on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u160	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u161	We shall return once again to the discussion earlier. I believe that the Government must stick to a clear course of action. If we push a corner into land management, we will gradually give this competence to the European Union, which could have disastrous consequences. France must remain sovereign over the management of its land, particularly agricultural land. Some of us find the rules of the European Union too liberal in many areas. This is our land! We are much offended when they are sold to foreign powers. Let's not open Pandora's box, let's not ask for an international treaty, because it would take us a lot further than where we would like to go. I therefore strongly oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u162	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u163	We agree with the rapporteur's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u164	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u165	I'm not sure I understand everything: I feel that there are two different subjects. You want the European Union to take care of this issue, and at the same time you ask it to help build an international treaty. I think it would be better to separate these two aspects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u166	That is the subject of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u167	I quite agree with the idea that the European Union supports the adoption of an international land treaty. It cannot be said that this question is specific to the European Union: it is truly international. We know, for example, that there is a phenomenon of land grabbing in Africa. But I repeat: I am not sure I understood what this amendment would give in the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u169	To make things clear, I would point out that the sub-amendment is intended to delete the part of the amendment relating to the preparation of an international treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u170	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u171	[[Smile]] It's just the most interesting! France and the European Union could pride themselves on asking this question at the international level, asking for regulation so that, through the free play of the market, the biggest buyers do not dominate. If there were international regulation, if France and the European Union were to act in that direction, I would find it very positive. But I don't believe it too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u172	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u173	Mr Ruffin, if such a treaty were to be adopted, it could lay down rules that are far less binding than national rules, which are far more liberal, and thus encourage the grabbing of the land you are denouncing. I urge you to be very cautious: with an international treaty, we will no longer be able to control things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u174	Madam President, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u175	I am sorry, Mr Ruffin, we have heard all the necessary explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u176	We always stop when it gets interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u177	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u178	This amendment is rather editorial. The concept of "safety nets" referred to in paragraph 48 does not seem to me to be sufficiently precise and not very legal. I propose to replace it by writing the end of the paragraph: "sufficient protection to deal with the economic and climatic sub-paragraphs".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u180	Madam Member, I would remind you that this is not a bill. The European motion for a resolution before us will not have legislative force: it will present the position of our Assembly and will above all have declarative force. It is intended to express publicly a position with regard to our European partners and our government. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u181	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u182	Several levers can be used to rebalance trade negotiations in the agriculture and agri-food sector. This includes supporting the development of associations of producer organisations in order, in the long term, to link the European territory of such associations at this scale, and also supporting initiatives of multi-annual tripartite agreements between producers, processors and distributors. In addition, it seems appropriate to consider the establishment of crisis management and market management tools – counter-cyclical aid, coupled aid, etc. – as well as supply control tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u184	Mrs Battistel, I had invited the author of the amendment to redraft it to include it in the correct paragraph, which was done. Thank you and give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u186	This motion for a resolution includes the objectives mentioned in the framework of the general states of agriculture, and then the consideration of the EGALIM bill – balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector, and healthy and sustainable food – by your assembly. I think this amendment is in the right direction. France has been particularly active on this subject with regard to the European Omnibus Regulation, which has made significant progress. The amendment goes in the same direction. The Government is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u187	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u188	I have already mentioned this in the general debate: it is a matter of keeping a careful eye on the priorities set by this resolution and, in this case, of not giving the impression that we would like our country to give up agricultural aid. This is important in the context of the forthcoming budgetary discussions, but also in order to justify the aid. Indeed, they have always been, historically, the counterpart of a commitment to regulate markets or a compensation for price reductions – at a time when they were still regulated at Community level. Today, the justification of aid is becoming more and more complex, even if it finds new relevance through farmers' environmental commitments. To consider aid as no longer a priority seems particularly dangerous to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u190	In favour, it is true that this amendment will give a rather positive meaning to paragraph 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u192	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u193	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u194	I really welcome these favourable opinions because, at a time when food issues, including food self-sufficiency, are becoming so important, it would be a shame to weaken our farmers in this respect. This will be a good guarantee of preserving the economic balances of our farms and I fully associate myself with Mr Herth's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u195	Mr Richard Ramos has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u196	One observation: in France as in the rest of the Union, the curve of obesity follows that of poverty. The more fragile we are, and in a low-educated family, the more food labels affect our consumption. The contents of the label can therefore lead to healthy or unhealthy eating. It must be noted that when, at the exit of this Chamber, we go to a small salad ready in a supermarket, we find the beautiful blue-white-red logo on the front of the box, but that behind it it is indicated that it is a product of the European Union and outside the European Union. In other words, European food labelling rules do not protect the consumer. I therefore propose by this amendment to create a pre-market label validation body to protect, in particular, the most vulnerable consumers, because they need to be very careful. Today, there are educated people who go to the markets, but this is not the case of the poorest. It's about protecting the humblest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u198	Dear colleague, I will reword what I said in committee: the body responsible for national label controls is, as you know, the DGCCRF. In substance, I fully agree with your point of view, but I believe that a motion for a resolution is not the place for this amendment. The only solution would be to create a European agency, comparable to DGCCRF, which could project in the different exporting countries in order to control production patterns, since these are undetectable in terms of finished products. I would add that labelling obligations do not fall under the CAP but under its own legislation, the 2011 European regulation on food information for consumers, says INCO. It provides that this information must not mislead the consumer, and updates, simplifies and clarifies the labels of foodstuffs marketed in the European Union. I personally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u200	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u201	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u202	The Republican Group has great reservations about this amendment, although we fully agree with the correlation between the obesity curve and the poverty curve. It must be a real concern to be interested in what we give our children to eat. But two points explain our position: on the one hand, since consumer information rules are primarily national and not harmonised at European level, creating a European body to monitor different legislation could be counterproductive; On the other hand, such an innovation would strengthen the Brussels technocracy, which is often denounced here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u203	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u204	The Ruffin-Ramos axis reappears regularly, and I'll keep it! I would like to go back to the history of Nutri-Score, which illustrates the difficulty of moving from national legislation to European legislation, knowing that the latter is actually blocking. Even at the French level, there were brakes, particularly on the part of the industrialists, not to incorporate Nutri-Score into French legislation, and Marisol Touraine had more or less bragged about it. We have received in committee the president of the ANIA – National Association of Food Industry, i.e. the Food Industry Lobby. We tipped him once to find out if he was going to ask his members to put this logo on their labels, and he kicked in touch with communicative know-how. When I went out to see him again, he told me that he would not impose it on his members, since the European Union allowed him to escape. There is therefore a real difficulty. A campaign is being conducted today, based on the idea that it is up to the consumer to demand the presence of Nutri-Score on the labels. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want the consumer to have a little bit of responsibility, so that an evolution can come from below in a few purchasing acts, but it is still up to us to make the legislation! And when we are told that this is not possible under European rules, it is up to us to change the European framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u205	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u206	Mr rapporteur, I understand your comments, but when the situation is not satisfactory, we cannot simply return to the European Union. On these issues, there is real European competition. As I said, the blue-white-red logo can be affixed to products of which no components are made in France! This means that the consumer is not protected, and that a true European vision is needed. The Franco-French vision is not enough, because we would always face unfair competition. On the contrary, there is a need to promote European harmonisation in this area. This has been recalled, we have in France very efficient control bodies. Those of other countries are different. Let us ensure that these controls are identical at European level. That is the purpose of my amendment. As for Nutri-Score, there is obviously a powerful lobbying in Parliament that prevents the development of this mode of information for the consumer. This is a real danger because this logo, designed at the initiative of the Ministry of Health, is restrained in its communication. That is why our House must make it clear that consumers have the right to know what they eat in a simple way. This is not the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u207	Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u208	I think it would be possible to support this amendment if there was already a common agricultural and food policy, which is not yet the case. I call on the European Union to accept the transition from the CAP to the PAAC, which would make your amendment fully acceptable, Mr Ramos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u210	Well done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u211	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u212	Paragraph 56 "advocates that a simplified set of tools should ensure the stability of farmers' incomes". But the question is not to stabilize their incomes, but to make sure that they are decent! Once again, one third of farmers earn less than 350 euros a month: there can be no question of stabilising such an amount. A farmer kills himself every other day. In 2016, the number of acts was multiplied by three. Yet they are the ones who make our countryside live, sculpt it and, above all, allow us to eat to our hunger every day. Beyond their indispensable work, our farmers, I will even use the beautiful word "farmers", allow France to be the first producer and second agricultural exporter of the European Union, and the eighth and fourth respectively in the world. Yet we let our farmers live, or rather survive, without a decent income. It is shameful for France and that is why we must remember, hammer out the need for our farmers to have a decent income and not only stabilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u214	Madam Member, the question of decent income is already dealt with in the motion for a resolution in paragraph 18: "Considering that a large number of farmers have a very low income below the poverty line and that this is contrary to the objective of Article 39 of the Treaty of Rome to "ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural population". The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u216	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u217	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u218	I can hear you. However, it is not because this concept is mentioned in another paragraph that we must retain in paragraph 56 the concept of stabilizing farmers' incomes. On the contrary, I think it is necessary to write black on white that farmers should be guaranteed a decent income. Using the terms of income stability by speaking of farmers, one third of whom earn less than 350 euros a month, seems rather shameful to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u219	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u220	I would remind our colleague of the wording of paragraph 52: "Want a reshaping of the economic model of European agriculture to enable farmers to live with dignity from their production". Paragraph 56, which is referred to in the amendment, deals with a panel of tools aimed at combating price volatility on the market, not the income of farmers as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u221	It is the word stability that is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u222	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u223	The contradiction is nevertheless interesting, from an intellectual point of view, and we cannot be satisfied with the answers just given. Indeed, if other paragraphs are in line with an improvement in farmers' income, it is impossible to accept that paragraph 56 refers only to its stability. Indeed, all the work we have done, and that you have done, Mr. Secretary of State, at the time of the General Food States, was aimed at increasing farmers' incomes. Either we adopt this concept throughout the motion for a resolution, or we acknowledge that this paragraph poses a problem, as has just been quite rightly raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u224	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u225	Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u226	In fact, the wording of paragraph 56 could be understood as stability over time, not as being in relation to the current situation. Today, farmers have very different incomes from year to year. The objective is to achieve a certain continuity of income and to be able to project in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u227	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u228	The aim is to introduce a subparagraph: 'Plaid for the creation of a European research and development network for the reduction of the use of plant protection products'. It is indeed necessary, in our view, to invest in technological and scientific innovation and to put in place a deployment plan, ensuring accessibility for as many people as possible. A lever of social innovation must also be included in research and development. This amendment is also the result of the reflections of the General Food States.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u230	My colleague, your amendment is in the right direction, but your wish should rather be within the framework of research and innovation policy, which will, moreover, see its appropriations increase in that of the next budgetary programme. We have already had this discussion in committee: the CAP budget does not mention the problem of innovation. It is part of Horizon Europe, with 10% of the €7 billion that will be invested in agriculture between 2020 and 2027. Therefore, the committee is against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u232	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u233	Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u234	I hear the rapporteur's arguments. But paragraph 61 "requests to strengthen cooperation and mutualisation in the field of public agronomic research, possibly through the establishment of a European network head". This will to cooperate and strengthen research in the agricultural sector is therefore well reflected in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u235	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u236	Mr Freschi, you are telling me that this amendment is satisfactory when the rapporteur tells me that it should not be included in the text. I confess my perplexity... Having said that, I am delighted if he is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u237	Dear colleague, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u238	If he's satisfied, I'll take him off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u239	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 25. Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u240	To my surprise, this amendment is identical to that of Mrs Battistel, although the summary statements are different. It is intended to correct the image we have been able to give in our debate on the EGALIM bill on related issues, in particular on the controversy over glyphosate, which has led us to a willingness to challenge the European Food Safety Authority – AESA. But it is the opposite that brings us together here, I am convinced: this authority must function; It must improve its functioning. This was also the purpose of the move of Secretary of State Brune Poirson to Parma, at the headquarters of EASA: to ensure that corrective action had been taken to ensure that this authority was more robust and effective, and that it worked for all Europeans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u241	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u242	I agree with Antoine Herth that the defence of these amendments is common.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, if your amendments are relevant, they have no place in this motion for a resolution. Indeed, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices has begun a reflection on this subject: as I said in committee, it seems to me better to wait to know the avenues for reform of the European agencies, in particular as a result of the Monsanto paper scandal. It is not up to the CAP to resolve the issue of European agencies. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u246	Unfavorable, for the same reasons. However, I reiterate the shared support for the approach and objectives pursued. The European Commission has undertaken work in this direction, under the impetus of France, which has advocated strengthening the independence of EASA, as well as providing Europe with the means to conduct independent studies where necessary, particularly in the field of plant protection products. If the objective is shared, the vehicle is not the right one, since this proposal is not directly covered by CAP regulations and should be discussed within the framework of the general food safety regulation. That is why I call for the withdrawal of these amendments. Otherwise, the Government would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u247	Mr Herth, do you withdraw Amendment No 11?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u248	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u249	Mrs Battistel, do you withdraw Amendment No 25?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u250	Also.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u251	I have before me an amendment No 10 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 34. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u252	I'm not going to go back to the list of bad news from the environmental front, because you already know them. This amendment reflects a desire to strengthen the environmental aspect of the motion for a resolution. It is intended, after paragraph 62, to insert a subparagraph which "reaffirms that the common agricultural policy has the task of enabling the ecological transition of European agriculture".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u253	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to support sub-amendment No 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u254	In order to avoid repetition of the same idea, this sub-amendment proposes to link the proposed operative paragraph 62, which deals with the same subject. On this condition, the committee would be in favour of Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u256	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u257	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u258	For the sake of conciliation, and since we are living a great moment of unanimity, I accept the sub-amendment. I note, however, that there is a small difference between the two solutions, it seems to me – I make it clear, because I am not very comfortable with these texts and prefers to display it frankly. You link my proposal to paragraph 62 by saying that it is basically a matter of achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u259	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u260	But it must be seen that our proposal goes beyond that. We must realize, in the ecological tragedy that we are slowly living on low fire, that the objectives of the Paris Agreement will not be enough to solve the problems of global warming and biodiversity. They won't be enough... and yet they won't be filled! We will therefore be satisfied that our concern about the ecological transition is linked to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. But it must be borne in mind that even if these goals were achieved, that would not be enough to reverse our catastrophic trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u261	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u262	It seems to me that with the sub-amendment, everything is fine. But, Mr rapporteur, it must be said that we have an obligation to constantly repeat the environmental issues. We must, perhaps on every page, recall this need – or this evil – necessary. Indeed, we must understand that in the European agricultural policy of tomorrow, France's action will be very environmentalist, while some other European countries will disregard the objectives for the planet and create unfair competition for us. Always reminding him is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u263	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u264	I salute François Ruffin's ecumenical will. Its argument is relevant: indeed, the Paris Agreement concerns the climate, while the ecological transition also concerns biodiversity, as well as the protection of soil, water and air. His amendment did indeed reflect a much broader view than the one which will ultimately be adopted in the light of sub-amendment No 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u265	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u266	I would also like to thank Mr Ruffin, and urge him to read paragraph 64: "Affirming the importance of organic farming in terms of reducing soil pollution and preserving biodiversity", and paragraph 69: "Invites the European Commission to pay agricultural-intensive farms for environmental services".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u267	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u268	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It would of course be possible to do better, but it seems to me that these two paragraphs satisfy his concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u269	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u270	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u271	As I have already pointed out, France is at the forefront of reducing the dependence of agricultural production on plant protection products. It has demonstrated this in particular when it held the rotating presidency of the European Union at the time of the adoption of directives on the marketing authorisation of these products. In particular, Directive 2009/ 128/ EC provided for the implementation of a plan for the reduction of plant protection products for each Member State. On the occasion of my trip to Brussels with the joint fact-finding mission on the use of plant protection products, we met with representatives of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety and the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. Unfortunately, we have had to see that, ten years later, there is still a long way to go: the Member States do not show the same course, which leads to distortions of competition. It therefore seems to me that this amendment is of interest, since it advocates that the European Commission should simply ensure that the existing texts are applied so that France does not find itself alone on a number of subjects, which farmers rightly accuse us of too often.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u272	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u273	I repeat what I said in committee: the CAP concerns enough subjects to avoid encroaching on the issues dealt with by specific directives, which you are quoting, dear colleague. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u275	Pretty wise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u276	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u277	I understand very well the wisdom of the Secretary of State. Indeed, when it came to EASA, which really falls within the scope of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety, its argument was correct. On the other hand, the question of agronomic practices, and the question of the link between the allocation of European aid and its justification, or of eco-conditionality, brings us in the middle of a logic of applying practices that are environmentally virtuous. There is a direct link between agricultural practices and my amendment. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the view of the Secretary of State should invite us to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u278	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u279	This amendment concerns paragraph 63 of the motion for a resolution, which "affirms the importance of short circuits in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and fairer remuneration for producers". I am obviously in favour of short circuits: it is the future of agriculture, and it is indeed in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I am thinking, for example, of the consumption of organic or equitable products: many of them being produced in South America, it has a certain carbon impact – as well, without going as far, as when the agricultural product comes from the other side of France. So short circuits reduce greenhouse gas emissions, I fully agree, but are their benefits limited to that? I don't believe it. They also allow us to respect the seasons, to learn to live at the rate of the earth, to make known to the younger generations the wealth of the agricultural world. Since 87% of children are not familiar with fruits and vegetables, I think it is high time to change the way we eat. Short circuits are the joy of discovering fresh, quality products that have an incomparable taste compared to those offered on a large surface; It is – I come back again, and you also mention it in this paragraph – that farmers have a more decent and respectful income for their work. That is why I propose replacing the words "reduction of greenhouse gas emissions" with "protection of the environment", which I believe is a broader concept and which overlaps with what I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u281	I find the reference to reducing greenhouse gas emissions more precise than the reference to protecting the environment, because the impact is mainly linked to the reduction of freight transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u283	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u284	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u285	When we looked at the agriculture and food bill, we found ourselves facing an obstacle: we were told that if we included in a piece of legislation our will to move towards short, local channels, that would distort competition and that the European Union would condemn us for that. I think there is a lid to blow up in the next few discussions. There is an agreement between the citizens, an agreement of the national representation, an agreement of the political leaders, in short an agreement of the whole of society, and we are opposed that above that, above this democratic will and these health and environmental issues, there would be a sacred thing: free and undistorted competition. Well, you have to say that's not the case. I believe that this could be one of the issues involved in the reform of the CAP, and the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament could send the message to the Minister for Agriculture, so that he would defend this position in Brussels.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u286	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u287	I would like to point out that eating properly is creating a link between the person who produces and the person who consumes. Short circuits respond to the idea that diet is not just calories that you swallow, a pill that you would take morning, noon and evening, it is also a geographical and historical relation to its territory; one does not eat the same way according to geography, climate, culture. Short circuits, therefore, are not just an ecological question of reducing greenhouse gases, it is also a way of reviving the history of its territory. In addition, attention must be paid to the relationship between the environment and greenhouse gas reductions, since the agricultural model of short circuits, small-scale production and family farms could then be competed with very large cow factories, whose impact on the ozone layer would be less than that of small-scale local production. To assert the environmental dimension of short circuits, rather than to reduce them to the fight against the greenhouse effect, is therefore a path which I think is not negligible. If, of course, we defend everything that is good for the planet, we also defend a certain agricultural model for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u289	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u290	I agree with Mrs Ménard and Mr Ramos on short circuits, but that is not what we wanted to write in this text. Our aim was not to give a definition of short circuits, which indeed affect a wide range of areas: we wanted to stress two points in particular. First, there was the idea that a short circuit is geographically close, hence the reference to greenhouse gas emissions. Ménard alluded to this: 80% of the organic products sold in large distribution are imported today. So we wanted to underline the fact that the circuit is not only the relationship between the producer and the distributor, it is also a geographical concept. The second point, which is very important and which we have developed at length in our report, is that these new economic approaches allow for a fairer remuneration of producers. It is becoming increasingly apparent that practices that differ from those that have been chosen in the past in terms of production, processing or sales are providing a better life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u292	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u293	This amendment reflects a question. I understand paragraph 65 as a copy-paste of everything we could say when we considered the Agriculture and Food Bill. However, we are working on a European text: when we talk about a European-wide proximity market, it corresponds to the whole single market! There is therefore a contradiction between what is written in the motion for a resolution and the European dimension to which it aspires.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u295	Serving in the collective restoration of products from farms located in a nearby area avoids the excessive travel times that affect the quality of food, respects the seasonality of the products consumed or encourages the maintenance of a nearby agriculture. However, local procurement is difficult to characterize in a tender because of the rules governing public procurement, which have been established in order to ensure the cohesion of the single European market. Collective restoration is an important lever to promote the territorial anchoring of food. As a follow-up to the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, this wording sends a strong signal, while the criterion of proximity of supplies cannot be included in a law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u296	With will, we can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u298	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u299	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u300	You are sending a letter to the European Commission, saying that we are advocating a sub-locking of the single market. For this is what "proclaiming a supply of public collective restaurants with local products" means: the Italians will say the same thing, the Spaniards will say the same thing, and everyone will do their little partitioning on their side! This will create a difficulty for French producers, who, until now, had the habit of finding outlets for our European partners. I just wanted to point this out. Is it wise to say that in a European text? But I understand that you are determined, so I will leave you to do so, and I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u301	I have before me two amendments, Nos 22 and 15, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u302	Through this amendment, we want the European Union to commit itself to respecting the food sovereignty of developing countries and to strengthening co-development strategies based on family farming and agro-ecology. There are few as great challenges for the peace and survival of humanity as to think of an agriculture capable of feeding around 10 billion people tomorrow, while contributing to the fight against global warming and the protection of the planet. To take part in this global challenge, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda, European farmers need regulation. Food is not a commodity like any other. One of the priority projects for Europe is the Mediterranean, which appears to be a new frontier, where much of our future is played out, in terms of climate, security and migration. The answer cannot be limited to managing successive crises. A major policy of co-development must be conceived as an investment of prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u303	Mr Antoine Herth, in support of Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u304	It is almost identical to the previous one: it is the posture that changes. In the amendment just tabled by Mrs Battistel, the European Union "respects" the food sovereignty of the partner countries. What I want, for my part, is for the European Union to "contribute" to their food sovereignty. Indeed, what do we have to do with these countries in order to cope with climate change and geographical difficulties? France is a well to know: we have research institutes, we have extraordinary knowledge of agronomy, our agricultural organizations have, for decades, demonstrated that they were able to organize themselves to transform and market their products. That is what I believe we can bring to all these countries, so that they can remain masters of their destiny and give work to those farmers who, too often, see their crops destroyed or poorly valued and have only one desire: to leave their land to reach the capital of the country, where they will find themselves in slums. I therefore call on the House to choose a much more proactive wording than that of the amendment that has just been tabled, although the spirit is the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u305	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u306	Unfavorable opinion: even if they address a major issue, these two amendments are quite distant from the subject of the common agricultural policy, which is primarily concerned with European food sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u308	I would first like to reiterate the objective and the challenges of development aid. For France, this represents about EUR 8 billion. Our country is today the world's fifth largest contributor in this area. This is, of course, the result of the commitment of successive governments. However, this is still below the 0.7-point target of GDP, despite the EUR 100 million increase in the development aid appropriations adopted by this House in the framework of the last finance bill. Beyond this objective, which we all share, there is a difficulty regarding the appropriate vehicle to address this issue. Such proposals do not fall directly within the scope of the CAP regulations; they should be discussed within the framework of development policy. That is why the Government is giving an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u309	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u310	I find these two amendments very important, although I would rather support the proactive amendment. Let us not be mistaken: all this is a matter for the CAP. The relationship between European agricultural production and the Mediterranean countries is not entirely different. We're right in there. There would be a very strong signal in the matter. We do not work in silo: we must consider the agricultural world as a whole. We must also stop thinking that we are going to produce cheap chicken that we would then distribute on the African market. We must allow our friends in the Mediterranean, faced with migration problems, to create wealth, starting with the first wealth of agricultural autonomy. It is therefore essential, Mr Secretary of State, to send a sign to the Mediterranean countries on our ability to make them autonomous and to lead, in view of the migration to come in the coming decades and even in the coming months, a true international policy, which starts from France and the European Union, on agricultural matters. I would also like to take this opportunity to say a word about agricultural surpluses. Could we not shift our overproductions to some countries that host migrants in large centres? These countries find it difficult to find food for the people they are being asked to receive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u311	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u312	I invite the rapporteur and the Secretary of State to revise their position on these amendments. Personally, I support that of Mr Herth, but more generally, we are talking about an important issue, directly linked to the common agricultural policy: if we opt for ultra-productivism, with the resolute maintenance of the first pillar, production will be strong and we will remain at the export mission of France and the European Union. If, on the agricultural front, free trade has been negative for our farmers, it has been a disaster for the farmers of the South. In another debate, I referred to the history of Burkina Faso, whose borders have been opened up. This country was condemned to open its agricultural market: massive imports of cereals then destroyed local agriculture, all under pressure from the European embassies and the WTO. The interview I had about this date back a few years ago: in all honesty, therefore, I do not know if this pressure persists. However, in a motion for a resolution such as this one, we cannot limit ourselves to a European-European position, without feeling concerned by the relations we have with other countries in agricultural matters. We are really at the heart of the matter. I repeat that we cannot deal with the migration issue without also putting on the ground the question of trade relations in agricultural matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u313	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u314	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u315	I support both amendments, but, on the back of Mr Ruffin, with a preference for the amendment tabled by Mrs Battistel. The meaning isn't the same. If we write that the European Union "helps" to strengthen food sovereignty, then we place the debate, as the Government intends to do, on the issue of co-development or assistance to the countries concerned. But the question is not there. The question is the respect for food sovereignty: are we suffocating, through the agricultural choices we make, the food agriculture of certain countries or are we allowing, on the contrary, their development? In the area of protein crops, for example, we European countries can stop importing soybeans from South America, whose production causes deforestation and attacks food farming in these countries. So this is not exactly the same approach. For my part, I prefer to emphasize respect for food sovereignty, a matter directly related to the agricultural choices made in Europe and the maintenance of agriculture in the countries concerned. The question therefore far exceeds that of the aid or assistance that we can provide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u316	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u317	Mr. Chassaigne takes the words out of my mouth. In any case, it cannot be said that this text is not the right one to mark the requirements in question. Our country, too, must drive a dynamic which must obviously be much broader. If France doesn't, who will? That is why I am really calling on our House to adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u318	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u319	Thank you for this beautiful debate on a subject that I have been passionate about for thirty years. In 1995, I submitted a report to the Economic and Social Council on the world food balance. So we were already discussing these issues at the time! André Chassaigne has made it clear that the two amendments differ. Ms Battistel's position, in essence, reflects the position that has prevailed for thirty years, namely the official position of non-interference; But, in reality, the choices we make here, as we know, have consequences for African countries, for countries that trade with us and suffer the effects. The Secretary of State responds to me with food aid, and in fact he cannot answer anything else: there is no European strategy on co-development. On this subject, no political reflection is really explained, drafted and voted in common. What I recommend here is that Europe finally develop a real strategic vision for the Mediterranean and sub-Saharan Africa. France is often alone in these territories. Are we able to convince our German or Dutch neighbours to develop an agricultural vision?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u320	This is not part of the CAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u321	Can we help these sovereign States with food sovereignty? It is this question that I am asking through my amendment, which is indeed different.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u322	I have received several requests for explanations of vote on the single article. Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u323	I hope that, based on unanimity – temporary! – of our assembly, a strong voice will be expressed in Brussels, first to preserve the budget of the common agricultural policy, then to transform it, in the interests of our farmers but also our children – maybe it's a little melodrama, but I think we're here. I hope that there will be a captain on board, so that we do not abandon this agricultural policy to inertia. We still have a difference of background: the hole in the racket. This is considerable, since it is about free trade. How can an "agri-cultural" exception emerge, along the lines of the cultural exception? How can we avoid leaving agriculture to the market and to international free trade? In the absence of a central answer to this question, social, environmental and tax dumping will be condemned. This question, the motion for a resolution, is, let us say, just about it. She doesn't put both feet in the dish. It does not raise the issue of free movement of goods in Europe, with different environmental conditions. How can we prevent glyphosate in a single country, if that's what happens in three years' time? It seems to me that this can cause economic difficulties for our farmers, and we must ask the question frankly. In the same way, how can we ask our farmers to grow up while at the same time signing agreements with Mercosur, with Mexico, or an agreement such as CETA, which we find difficult to discuss in this House? The hole in the racket is therefore wide, and this motion for a resolution does not really fill it. I wanted to highlight this important point of divergence, despite our support for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u324	Mr Antoine Herth, for the IUD, Action and Independents Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u325	On behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents, I will also support the motion for a resolution. I welcome this work on the common agricultural policy and hope that we will have more opportunities to work on European issues. In this Chamber, the European flag is now raised to the side of the French flag. We had to fight for that to happen. Our Assembly has made considerable progress in understanding the declination of European texts at national level. In my view, we can still make progress in this understanding. It will help to position France as a leader in Europe and to integrate the consensus that emerges in the European Parliament. I am pleased that the motion for a resolution contributes to this, and therefore supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u326	The next speaker is Mr Richard Ramos, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u327	The MODEM Group also supports the text and welcomes the work of its excellent editors and the rapporteur. There was unanimity on the subject, which will carry the French voice. That seems very interesting to us. We are carrying the French vision in European debates, all in the context of globalisation. Since it is time to go to lunch, I also invite everyone to turn to their own way of life. What are we going to eat at noon? French products? We must also ensure that everyone eats the same thing. The restaurants on the seventh and eighth floors of our assembly, as well as the buvette, for example, serve only French meat. But the trays served to employees and employees contain meat that is not French. In other words, we must start at the local level and end at the global level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u328	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u329	The New Left Group will, of course, support this text, while deeply regretting that our House has rejected the last two amendments. The discussion they have opened indeed seems important to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u330	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u331	[["Ah! » on various benches]] The Republican Group, by my vote, will vote for this European motion for a resolution, and will do so with enthusiasm and dynamism. This is a fundamental enthusiasm, as much as the work done by our colleagues, particularly in the report, provides France with a real basis for discussion and vision for the future. In the general discussion, I expressed my doubts about the future. They remain considerable, and we share them all. I still believe that the Government has a very heavy responsibility in the current situation, but that it is necessary to find a solution together to save what can be. If this motion for a resolution can be even one thousandth of the solution, if the position of the national Parliament can reinforce that of France and accompany the Government in negotiations in Brussels with our partners, then we will have made some progress and tried to start saving the furniture. That is what this is about, pending progress on the subjects presented and brilliantly defended by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u332	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u333	[[Smile]] After a thorough consultation with the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and the use of a dialectical approach, we will of course vote for this motion for a European resolution. [[Smile]] However, I share the arguments of François Ruffin. The aim here was to find a consensus, which necessarily calls for compromises. If I had had François Ruffin as co-rapporteur, the text would certainly have been written differently. But it could not then have been taken as the voice of France in the discussions on the common agricultural policy. In the end, however, we would have had something very beautiful: the quintessence of the agrarian revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u334	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u335	Of course, I thank André Chassaigne and Alexandre Freschi for this good report. I also thank my fellow Members for their presence this morning and for the exchanges that we have all had together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u336	We have concluded our examination of the articles of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u337	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u338	Unanimous! The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u339	I know the differences in approach that may stand in the way of us at certain times. However, I have a deep feeling, after spending these three hours with you, that we share the same ambitions and requirements. Everyone obviously has his own path that confronts him with other ideals, with reality, with constraints. But, I repeat, I am firmly convinced – it was enough to listen to our debates this morning – that the ambition of responsible consumption, exploitation and agriculture is common to us. [[Applause]] I thank the rapporteurs for their work: through their contribution, they support the position of the Government. The demand for a reorientated but maintained CAP must bring us together today and bring us together tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u340	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u341	[[Smile and applause]] Thank you, Secretary of State. This was my first report: I am proud to have been unanimous on this occasion, and I hope this is not the last time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u342	Pursuant to Article 28 of the Constitution, the President will note the closure of the ordinary session by notice published in the Official Journal of Sunday, July 1, 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-28-O1289.u343	Next sitting, Tuesday, July 3, 2018, at 15:00: Opening of the special session; Questions to the Government; Following the discussion of the proposal and the proposal for an organic law on combating the manipulation of information. The meeting is adjourned.
