ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u1	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the bill by Messrs. Richard Ferrand and Marc Fesneau and several of their colleagues strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos (No. 940, 995).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u2	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was tabled on the Bureau of the National Assembly on May 14, 2018 by members of the La République en marche and MODEM groups. It was adopted in the Law Committee on 30 May. It aims to stem a worrying phenomenon: motorised rodeos, which pose a danger to both their authors and road users and pedestrians. Indeed, the various facts involving motorcycles, scooters, but also mini-motorbikes and quads, are in full increase at the heart of the residential areas, on the outskirts of urban centres, including on motorways, and sometimes in the countryside. In 2017, nearly 9,000 rodeos – also known as cross bitumen – were found in urban areas by the National Police. Young drivers lost their lives there: two in Essonne and one in the Yvelines. Most recently, in the Lille area alone, a 23-year-old succumbed to his injuries at the Centre hospitalier régional universitaire – CHRU – in Lille, two motorcycles collided and their drivers were seriously injured. Another week ago, a pedestrian was hit and the offender, trying to escape, ran into the police force. This illustrates how extremely sensitive the intervention of law enforcement is. Police officers and gendarmes face a major challenge: they must challenge the drivers at fault without jeopardizing their own safety, the safety of the population or the safety of the offenders. It also happens that large gatherings are formed, as was the case last year, when three hundred young people from Grigny travelled on the Francilienne by violating the rules of safety on public roads. Another example is that of rodeos in the Montesson plain, which are very damaging to vegetable crops. In my constituency of the Yvelines, the cities of Achères and Quartiers-sub-Poissy are affected by this phenomenon, which, in addition to the concerns of the residents for their safety, causes a great exasperation due to noise nuisances. That is why, together with several of my fellow Members of Parliament of the majority, we have consulted on the ground with law enforcement agencies, municipal authorities, the prefecture and the Ministry of the Interior. It has become clear to us that there is no legislative or regulatory provision that can be used to specifically combat urban rodeos. In fact, there is a real difficulty for law enforcement agencies in characterizing this type of offence. In order to challenge offenders, they must use various legal tools of a regulatory or delictual nature, such as voluntary degradation, refusal to comply where the danger of the life of others can be easily characterized. It was therefore necessary to complete the existing legal framework. As a result, this parliamentary initiative aims to include in the road code a new offence, a specific offence against behaviour that deliberately compromises public safety or tranquillity. Being able to characterize the crime more easily is a guarantee of efficiency. The fact that this offence is punishable by one year's imprisonment will enable the police to immediately detain the offenders. All motor vehicles, subject to approval or not, will be covered by the provisions of the proposed law. The concept of "open to public traffic" will make it possible not to distinguish between public and private roads.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u5	From the moment their access is free, private lanes, such as car parks, will be affected. In addition, there are a number of highly dissuasive additional penalties, including mandatory confiscation of the vehicle used to commit the offence, whether the driver is the owner or the driver is free to dispose of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u7	Finally, this text will make it possible to act upstream by also suppressing the incitement, promotion and organisation of motorised rodeos. It will be accompanied by regulatory provisions to encourage law enforcement action in this area and to generalise good practice in preventing and raising awareness among the various public about the dangers of motorised rodeos. Be certain, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of raising awareness among all the public is at the heart of our concerns. Indeed, these phenomena very often affect the working-class neighbourhoods, and when it comes to young minors, the primacy must always be given to the educational aspect. However, we must take stock of the risks associated with non-compliance with security obligations, and also make their tranquillity exasperated by the repetition of such actions. In short, we want to prevent any accidents and leave no sense of impunity behind because, as Mr Little mentioned in committee, "it is the quality of social relations that is thus tainted and there is a risk of people doing justice themselves – this has already happened – which no one here wants." In fact, several bills from various groups in the Assembly and in the Senate have put forward useful ways of thinking in this direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude by recalling that this text is the result of work undertaken by Members of the LaREM and MODEM majority. I would especially like to thank Mireille Clapot, as well as my colleagues Bruno Studer, Catherine Osson, Cécile Rilhac, Said Ahamada, Stéphane Testé, Pierre-Alain Raphan, Aude Luquet and Jean-Noël Barrot. Without further delay, I propose that you consider and debate this bill together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u9	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u10	Madam President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you today because you, like the Government, have taken full measure of the scourge of what is commonly referred to as "urban rodeos". First of all, I want to thank you for that. But what exactly is it? People who are unconscious, often very young – too young – who use vehicles, whether registered or not, commit multiple traffic offences and endanger our youth and those present in public space, sometimes with criminal behaviour. They display equipment often acquired illegally or tampered with, in order to provoke law enforcement and to express a desire to appropriate public space. As the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, said yesterday, rodeos were the cause, in 2017, of 8700 interventions by our police forces and 6600 interventions by our gendarmerie forces. I therefore believe that we can all agree here on one point: this situation cannot continue any longer, especially since social networks amplify the phenomenon by facilitating the organization of these gatherings, which now reach the entire national territory, including rural areas: they take place in our neighbourhoods, on parking lots or on roads open to traffic. The danger is real, and it will be all the more so with the arrival of the good days. It is a danger, first of all, for the population: I am thinking of this nine-year-old boy, hit in the city of Le Havre, on a Sunday afternoon, by a biker who rodeoed on a road prohibited to traffic. It is also a danger for young and old people who are involved: last year, a twenty-year-old man lost his life in the Essonne during a wild rodeo, after hitting another biker. Finally, it is a danger, of course, for our security forces: in April, clashes took place in Vénissieux, near Lyon, between some 30 people and the police, who were trying to put an end to motorbike rodeos. The police had been shot, and one of them was even injured. In the face of this phenomenon, our security forces are already acting both preventively and repressively, because public authority cannot tolerate the attack on tranquillity and security. Many awareness-raising operations, roadside checks, visits to common areas and building cellars to search for two motorized wheels are already being carried out throughout our territory. But we must be lucid: the fight against motorised rodeos is not an easy task. That is why the elected representatives, like the law enforcement agencies, have expressed the need for a change in the legislative framework, in order to evolve a legal framework that is neither appropriate nor dissuasive. It was therefore becoming urgent to give our police officers and gendarmes the legal tools to facilitate their action and increase efficiency. There is currently no specific offence against such behaviour. Only road traffic offences can be used to punish, only indirectly, this type of disruptive behaviour: speeding, refusal to comply, the offence of deliberately endangering the person of others or the lack of a driver's licence. On the initiative of MEPs, including Mireille Clapot, Natalia Pouzyreff and Bruno Studer, but also Aude Luquet, Isabelle Florennes, Jean-Noël Barrot and Robin Reda, your assembly put this subject on the table, without taboos or prejudices, as the majority has done in so many other matters for a year, with a single objective: to succeed collectively for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u11	What can't you hear?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u12	It's a mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u13	I thank them for this, especially since this mobilization has, by chance, found an echo in the Senate, of which Vice-President Vincent Delahaye has himself made a strong commitment to put an end to motorized rodeos. I would also like to pay tribute to him here. Together, therefore, we have worked closely with the services of the Ministry of the Interior, but also with those of the Ministry of Justice, so that the State can, as soon as possible, provide a concrete and viable response to these violations of peace and public order. The Government is therefore in favour of this bill. He was in favour of it, since it finally gave a clear definition of the offence of punishing rodeos, which would be more easily characterized by law enforcement. In addition, it provides for appropriate penalties that may be increased according to the circumstances. This is a significant step forward, since, as you know, many parliamentary initiatives have not been successful, failing to propose a sufficiently effective and applicable system on the ground. He is also in favour of it because you have provided for the compulsory confiscation by the judge of the vehicle used to commit the offence. This will prevent the recurrence of such behaviour. He is still in favour of it because the police and gendarmes will also be able to carry out the administrative immobilization of the vehicle in violation and to impound it. Finally, it is in favour of it, because the incentive to practice these rodeos and their organisation, which is now facilitated by social networks, will also be repressed. This bill provides a first comprehensive legislative response, but the Government also intends to act on regulatory issues. For example, it will ensure that the efficiency of the reporting and identification file for certain motor vehicles, known as "DICEM", is improved as soon as possible. Ten years after its establishment, it is necessary to strengthen its provisions in order to make it a more effective tool for combating rodeos, in particular for better tracing of the vehicle's provenance. Other avenues are under consideration, such as the possibility of requiring a sports licence or a professional certificate for the purchase of unapproved vehicles in order to avoid their proliferation, or the possibility of allowing municipal police to access the DICEM file directly without the intervention of national police officers or gendarmes. The Government is therefore determined to use all means in its power to put an end to the actions we are talking about. The fight against motorised rodeos will necessarily be part of the daily security police's missions and its philosophy of action, in synergy with local actors. That is why directives will be given to define, in our territories, a local policy of repression in conjunction with the judicial authority; to increase the involvement of citizens and partners, in particular through the exchange of information with municipal police and local cooperation arrangements; enhance the relevance of the video protection device by recording rodeos and strengthening identification and video-verbalization procedures; to address, during the prevention actions of the security forces for young people, the issue related to the dangers of motorised rodeos; support, finally, the steps of situational prevention with local elected officials and social donors, to put in place dissuasive technical solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] This bill brings its stone to the building of enhanced and renewed security, as close as possible to our fellow citizens, who have suffered too much from these motorized rodeos. That is why I am pleased that Parliament and the Government have acted hand in hand so that, throughout our territory, tranquillity can be restored and the rule of law respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u14	In the general debate, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at the outset that the Communist Members fully share the diagnosis which forms the basis of this bill. You have rightly mentioned, Madam rapporteur, the contribution of our colleague Stéphane Little to the debate in committee. This proposal for a law corresponds in fact to the reality experienced in many territories and to the deterioration of the quality of life experienced by our fellow citizens regularly exposed to these behaviors deliberately endangering security or tranquillity in everyday social life. It is therefore with full responsibility that we will vote for it, even if we wish to draw the rapporteur's and the Government's attention to other avenues of action, which must make public action more effective. Land-based motor vehicles covered by the text include, in particular, off-road motorcycles, quads, mini-motorbikes and other vehicles of this type, which are a source of use that frequently undermines public safety and tranquillity. The vehicles in question are normally used for sports practices or for work trips in territories and perimeters with specific characteristics. There is therefore, on the one hand, a sporting or leisure use, on sports grounds or courses duly approved and arranged, managed in a public, voluntary or private setting, whether or not covered by an association governed by the Law of 1901 or by a private undertaking; and, on the other hand, a professional use, on agricultural land or in natural areas where monitoring, maintenance, operation or production activities are carried out, requiring specific means of displacement adapted to the geographical characteristics of the environment, whether in terms of mountains, coastlines, forested or marshy areas. Although legislation to combat the harmful effects of the misuse of these devices has been strengthened in recent years, they continue to have a significant impact on the quietness of the population and our territories, especially when the weather is mild. In addition to the difficulty of apprehending certain motorized rodeo perpetrators because of their highly accidentogenic behaviour, it appears that the sanctions that may be imposed on them do not appear sufficiently dissuasive. It turns out that the practice of motorized rodeos has not declined, as is well demonstrated by the figures that the minister has just given us. We are therefore obliged to move on to a new stage, which is, Madam rapporteur, the meaning of your proposals. However, the only tightening of sanctions seems to us to be insufficient to give a definitive or lasting break to such behaviour. First of all, as we stress in all public policies, the resources allocated to the police, the gendarmerie and the National Forestry Office must of course be significantly strengthened in order to be able to carry out appropriate actions against these phenomena. In addition, we believe it is essential to regulate even more strictly the sale and use of certain motor vehicles. For example, there is a need to strengthen legislation on non-receivable equipment, i.e. not intended for use on public roads or on roads open to traffic. On the one hand, we are proposing to improve the identification system for all these vehicles – you have mentioned this point, Madam Minister, but we now need to act quickly. The installation of a registration plate, separate from that used on vehicles authorized to operate on the public road, could thus be considered in order to facilitate the identification of offenders. On the other hand, it seems to us appropriate to condition the acquisition of all the equipment not subject to reception at the presentation by the purchaser, either of a sports licence – as provided for in the legislation in force for minors under fourteen years of age – or of a valid professional card justifying the use of this type of vehicle, the scope of which could be set by regulation. So, you understand, we generally agree with your bill, but we would have liked the work to be further developed. At the same time, of course, even if this is not the meaning of your approach, it is imperative to think about improving prevention among young people. I will stick to that and I repeat that the Communist Members will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u16	Thank you, Mr. Wulfranc...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u17	However, if the relevant ministries fail to speed up the manoeuvre, we will make a proposal in this area ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u19	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic on the move is taking a modest look at this text. We are aware of the difficulty of apprehending the perpetrators, but we want to limit the impact of their behaviour, which is, at a minimum, exasperating for the populations concerned, whether urban or rural, and, at worst, causing serious disturbances, injuries or accidental deaths, as the Minister pointed out. The aim is to give such behaviour the criminal dimension of a crime, in particular so that the vehicle(s) can be seized as quickly as possible and that the misunderstanding of our fellow citizens can cease. The aim is to avoid a sense of insecurity and, worse, a sense of impunity. Impunity is both the insecurity and the impotence to deal with it: nothing like this to undermine public action, to decredify the respublica and to push our fellow citizens towards the extremes, towards the "demagos" or even towards the simplistics. In support of the daily security police, it is a matter of giving mayors and presidents of intercommunality, through local or intercommunal councils for security and crime prevention, the CLSPDs and CISPDs, as well as the law enforcement agencies – to whom we wish to pay tribute this afternoon – new means of acting and communicating on the impact of this new crime. It is also a question, as the explanatory memorandum does, of recalling the importance of prevention in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In short, as I said, we are approaching the examination of this text with modestness, but also with determination and with the feeling of taking concrete action against facts that exasperate many of our fellow citizens. Of course, the La République en marche group clearly supports the process. Above all, he hopes that, after several attempts here or in the Senate, we will finally arrive at a text, which is as effective as possible, in order to equip elected officials and law enforcement officials with the necessary means to act better and more effectively in the face of such behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u21	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there are indeed texts that are more controversial than this one, and we can look forward to having at least a moment of consensus in this House this week, if not unanimity, on this bill, which aims to give a clear definition of motorized wild rodeos and to suppress them. The term "urban rodeos" is, moreover, somewhat misleading, since, as you have rightly pointed out, Madam Minister, this phenomenon today affects the entire national territory, our cities, our countryside and our peri-urban areas, and not only the relegated territories of the Republic, some of whom believe that they are allowed to make acrobatic figures with vehicles that are either under reception or not at any time in public space, for their personal pleasure or, more likely, to disturb public order. If trans-party work has been carried out and the consensus I have mentioned is now in our Chamber, it is good that this phenomenon affects the whole of the national territory. This trans-party work has been carried out with parliamentarians but also with mayors, whom I would like to pay tribute to, because they are the ones who share these dangerous phenomena and risky behaviour in the regional daily press every week, as well as a sense of impotence on the part of the State, which is urgently needed, thanks to a series of means. In this regard, the strengthening of the legislative arsenal we have to work on today is the first step in a work that will certainly have to continue. I would therefore like to stress, as you have done, Madam Minister, the commitment of a number of colleagues. As far as the Republicans are concerned, it is in particular Sébastien Huyghe, who had already supported a bill on this subject in his time and tabled a new one in 2017, but also a number of mayors, Jean-Marie Vilain in Viry-Châtillon, Brice Rabaste in Chelles and Damien Meslot in Belfort. In all the territories of the Republic, our local elected officials are concerned about this issue and we want to make our constructive contribution to the debate on the fight against motorized rodeos. I am delighted that we are putting words on these troubles. There was a lack of a clear criminal definition of motorized rodeo, of acrobat behaviour on two- or four-wheeled devices. It was necessary to describe these phenomena which, throughout the national territory, disturb the social cohesion of our neighbourhoods. The clearer penalties provided for in the single article of the bill go without common sense. The confiscation of the vehicle had to be included very clearly in a law, so that the law enforcement agencies would no longer ask themselves the question and are no longer caught up in too complex administrative considerations, which strengthen their ability to intervene. Of course, in order for the bill to be consistent with the realities on the ground, it was necessary to recall certain tragic facts, emphasizing the risks that urban rodeos pose, both to their authors and to those in the vicinity. It was also necessary to combat the feelings of impunity experienced by the perpetrators. I will cite only one example: recently in Val-de-Marne, a mother was beaten for trying to oppose a motorized rodeo in a public park that could put children and their parents at risk. Once the bill has been passed, I hope, by the largest majority, if not by unanimity, which will probably remain as a historic moment of the summer,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u23	We have to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u24	Come on... there'll be more!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u25	... it will require means to implement it. You have touched on this question, Madam Minister. It is very important to state very clearly that law enforcement officers, police and gendarmes, will not be content with legislative developments and legal arsenals that give them more freedom to intervene. The tragic events that occurred yesterday in Nantes reminded us of this: there are times when the behaviour of each other, especially in the neighbourhoods, worries the law enforcement forces who must intervene, at the risk of committing an irreparable act. This is particularly the case with motorized rodeos in urban areas. Indeed, whether committed in a meeting or by isolated persons, certain behaviour is particularly dangerous not only for the perpetrators but also for the police, which makes the interventions very complex. There is a need to clarify all directives, instructions given to police officers. When, at the initiative of the Chair of the Law Commission, some of us went to police stations in their constituency, they heard a lot about the difficulty of confiscating the vehicles – we are going to solve it – but also of shooting the authors of urban rodeos, who, when using very powerful devices, can quickly escape the police. The repression obviously requires important technical and technological means, as well as training, professionalization of the intervention, so that the police and gendarmes can intervene by running as little risk as possible and obtaining as much results as possible. We also need to ensure that coherent prevention mechanisms are in place in the country. Collaboration between the national police, the gendarmerie, municipal police and education officials in the territory – national education – will help prevent the commission of such acts by measuring their danger. In fact, young people in search of adrenaline thrusts and strong sensations do not always measure the disorders, the nuisances they create in the territory. These factors may be the easiest to consider. If there is a need for general mobilization on the territory and awareness, let us not have the naivety to believe that urban rodeos are not the expression or symptom of deeper malaise, especially in the relegated territories of the Republic. In the suburbs, in peri-urban territories, rodeos show a parallel economy. The vehicles, in fact, do not come from anywhere. Sometimes those who participate in urban rodeos are exploited by the supporters of a local economy who use them to harm, to prevent the inhabitants of a neighbourhood from being in public space at such a time, and to monitor and prevent the arrival of the police. Let us not lose sight of the fact that by fighting motorized rodeos, we are fighting more widely against certain practices. We participate in the prevention and repression of what creates nuisances, troubles and the difficulty of living in certain parts of France in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, as you have understood, the Republicans Group will vote for this co-built bill, which is largely based on a series of work carried out on all the benches of the Chamber and everywhere in France by our local elected representatives. We will naturally exercise our vigilance over the means, on the application of the text, on what is the basis of our republican pact, that is, respect for the sovereign authority of the State everywhere, all the time, in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u26	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u27	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill, because it will be useful to law enforcement and communities, has, as we have heard, the consent of many of us. When questioned by local elected officials in our respective constituencies, by law enforcement officials or by local residents, we know very well that it is our responsibility to put an end to motorized urban rodeos. It is our responsibility to provide law enforcement agencies with legal tools that are sufficiently deterrent to prevent, prevent and punish such practices, the danger of which is verified on a daily basis. These long-awaited tools are included in the text today. By creating the offence of participation in a motorised rodeo, we first allow the precise identification of a practice which, so far, was not subject to any targeted sanction and could only be apprehended by the law enforcement authorities through a few traffic offences. This very small panel of solutions had forced the various local actors – ediles, law enforcement officials, magistrates – to exercise imagination in order to put in place ad hoc arrangements. This is particularly the case in the commune of Nanterre: the commissioner and the prosecutor have used the provisions of the Criminal Code and have systematized, where possible, the confiscation and judicial impoundment of the vehicles used. This system, if it proves to be time-consuming for the prosecutor's office, in that it requires regular management of the follow-up of cases, is convincing. In an article published today by a francilian daily newspaper, Nanterre's divisional commissioner went back to the work carried out jointly with the prosecutor's office. In particular, he stressed the disincentive of judicial confiscation. Indeed, since the beginning of the year, the security forces of the Netherlands have been able to confiscate 17 motorcycle-crosses and quads. This is the result of a policy of firmness towards these practices, carried out jointly for almost a year by the police station and the prosecutor's office, which, in addition to the judicial confiscation, has systematically used the legal tools available to it – contravention and immediate appearance. This policy is bearing fruit today and I take this opportunity to welcome the initiative of the Attorney and the Divisional Commissioner, who, with a remarkable sense of commitment, have done a thorough job. But what treasures of imagination it was necessary to deploy in order to stop this practice! It was high time to give our full support to the considerable work already done locally. Let us go back to the measures of the bill. In addition to the first offence, a second offence is created relating to the incitement, organization and promotion of these rodeos. Again, it is a matter of presenting a legal arsenal that takes into account all the situations surrounding the holding of urban rodeos. It is in this spirit that a package of complementary measures is proposed for the two offences I have just mentioned. Among these, the most suitable ones seem to me to be the compulsory confiscation of the vehicle used to commit the offence, the suspension of the driving licence for a maximum period of three years, the cancellation of the driving licence with a ban on applying for a new one for the same maximum period of three years, the penalty of work of general interest, the prohibition of driving certain land-based motor vehicles, including without a licence, the obligation to attend a road safety awareness training course and the possibility of immobilizing the vehicle. The proposed articulation therefore fills the legal and criminal gaps in this area. However, I would like to draw your attention to prevention. My colleagues have already highlighted this point. As I have shown by quoting the example of the Nanterre system, we need dissuasive measures to enable law enforcement to carry out a genuine policy of prevention. I fear, however, that certain penalties, including fines, may not be the most effective: individuals arrested at rodeos are often insolvent. What, in this case, the fines they face? Apart from this, I believe that we can welcome the text resulting from the work of the Law Committee. The amendments adopted, in particular those of my colleague Aude Luquet, from the MODEM and related groups, secure the system and fully incorporate it into the road code. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Also, the MODEM and related group, co-signatory to the bill, will be pleased to adopt the text. First and foremost, we must put an end to a scourge which is causing many accidents every year and which we know is increasing in the summer. The arrests of our fellow citizens can no longer remain a dead letter and the law enforcement agencies are more deprived than they already are.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u28	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u29	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I join my colleagues in welcoming the rapporteur's work. It once again highlights a phenomenon which has worsened in recent years throughout the national territory, in addition to the rest of the world, and which unfortunately causes more and more nuisances and insecurity for our fellow citizens. Others have said that this phenomenon is getting worse, as a result of a feeling of impunity. Current legislation does not allow law enforcement or justice to effectively stem this growing scourge. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group will support this initiative, which will enable us to adapt our law and, above all, to supplement the 2008 provisions, to create a specific crime and provide for additional penalties. I would also point out that this initiative was largely based on previous parliamentary work from all sides, from all political sensitivities, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. We need to act quickly. Let me recall a few figures: 8700 rodeos were recorded for 2017 alone, an increase of almost 20 per cent in one year of the interventions of the national gendarmerie. This increase is confirmed in 2018. As I said, we must act quickly and I hope that the Senate will issue a fair vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u30	Yes! We're in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u31	... so that we can act on this decision during the summer period,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u32	We'll have to take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u33	... often conducive to these behaviours. At every rodeo, all the residents, whether they are residents or – as has been pointed out in committee – traders, are disturbed by infernal noises that prevent them from working or sleeping. Worse: those who pass by risk their lives, like the rodeo authors, so much so that the most basic rules of road safety are disregarded. Of course, drama remains rare. Nevertheless, we cannot forget the fatal accidents that have occurred in the national territory. Yesterday, during the question-and-answer session to the Government, our rapporteur recalled that a new accident had occurred this weekend. If the phenomenon increases, it also tends to expand, as I said earlier, and does not concern only urban areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u35	I therefore welcome the fact that the bill has not restricted the scope of the offence to urban areas. The phenomena we are talking about have also been observed in the periphery of urban centres, in rural areas and overseas. In the face of this extension, we had to act. I agree with the comments made by my colleagues, in particular by Mr Reda, who are asking you about the means that will be given to implement this mechanism in practice. In many cases, minors are involved, who can only be arrested in special circumstances. I would therefore like you to provide us with some clarification on this subject, which would reassure us of the effectiveness of the mechanism. The provisions we are discussing, in particular the creation of this new crime, will complement the 2008 law. The text, which was a first step, was intended to combat the movement of unapproved vehicles on the public road. Without repeating the arguments that have previously been detailed, I would like to recall that this text also introduces a penalty of confiscation, which will facilitate the action of law enforcement officials, who demand such measures. The suspension or even the cancellation of the driving licence are also concrete penalties, which I think will be much more dissuasive. The same applies to additional penalties for alcohol and drug use. These mechanisms, these new individualized and proportionate penalties, we are sure, will make it possible to fight effectively against these behaviours, the seriousness of which, it is true, can vary considerably. Beyond the direct means that will be given to the law enforcement authorities to implement the text, we also question, from a more global point of view, how we can approach this problem upstream. We need to ask ourselves what is the underlying reason for the resurgence of these behaviours: what causes this youth to act in this way? We know that most of the people involved in these rodeos are quite young, which probably translates into malaise, ill-being, a desire to express themselves differently. This is also the answer, by integrating all the actors who can act upstream on these phenomena. The first concerned, the first to alert us are local elected officials, who struggle to stem these behaviors and must manage their consequences. Among these actors is also the family unit: where are the parents when these young people, often minors – as is the case in Polynesia – are on the road, at twenty-two hours, at midnight, at two o'clock in the morning? I believe that joint action must be taken between the Ministry of the Interior and all the ministries concerned, in particular those responsible for the family and social cohesion. In the conduct of public policies in this area, we must not simply have a restrictive or repressive vision. In my view, prevention should always be given priority rather than repression; At least prevention must always accompany our repressive actions. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the communities covered by article 74 of the Constitution, as well as New Caledonia, are, for the most part, competent for road safety. Please be aware that, for example, French Polynesia and New Caledonia themselves define the provisions of the road code and the rules of road safety. On the other hand, penalties for criminal offences must be approved at the national level. We therefore took advantage of this text to ask for the approval of the penalties that we had called for by local laws, country laws. [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir, LR, NG, GDR and FI groups]] I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the concept of direct or indirect amendment. Could I have tabled an amendment to extend the provisions of the bill to New Caledonia, Polynesia and the Wallis-et-Futuna Islands if only the amendments directly related to the text were admissible, as might be the case tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u36	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u37	I would like, Madam rapporteur, to anticipate a little about the constitutional debate. We must act effectively. The fact that we have a somewhat broader view of the way in which amendments are to be accepted is not intended to prevent the debate, slow it down or obstruct it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u39	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] Territories like ours need these legislative instruments to adapt their law, update it, make it ever more legible, bring it into line with national legislation and take advantage of its progress. In this regard, I welcome the results achieved and once again thank the rapporteur and the Ministry for allowing Polynesia to join the movement. We were able to extend the scope of the text to Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna and New Caledonia; As I said, Polynesia was able to approve the prison sentences provided for in its local texts. Thank you for your attention and count on your support for our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u40	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u41	[[Smile]] A rodeo specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u42	[[Smile]] But where's the cowboy hat?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u43	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of motorised rodeos is a scourge that has plagued us for too long, in rural and urban areas, in metropolitan France and overseas – it has been recalled. These behaviors are dangerous for residents and, of course, for those who engage in them, as the accidents that have occurred in recent years – which you have mentioned abundantly, Madam Minister – have caused the deaths of several people. A year ago, L'Écho Républicain thus spoke of "three deaths in less than a month in the popular cities of Dreux [...] on a rodeo background". Everywhere, this phenomenon is growing, and local actors, from elected officials to educators, and, of course, the people affected by nuisances, have been drawing the alarm for years. From wedding processions to wild races, malicious behaviors are multiple and factors of insecurity. Wild or motorized rodeos are one of many expressions of distrust – towards the authority, the republican order, of a society whose basic rules of sociability are rejected. But basically, no matter the nature of this mistrust: these rodeos are above all the mark of a society in which insecurity and incivilities thrive. In 2017, the gendarmes saw 6614 rodeos, an increase of almost 20% in one year, and this tragedy does not only affect suburbs and urban areas. There is no doubt that our legislative arsenal is inadequate. Rodeos are now sanctioned by a number of road traffic violations – speeding, lack of helmets or non-certification of the vehicle – but new and more appropriate measures were needed to better combat them. In a press release in August 2017, Ms.La Prefecte de l'Essonne also referred to the risks to law enforcement officials posed by the arrest of infringing drivers, particularly in relation to chase races, which can sometimes end tragically. In this respect, police unions claim to favour post-trial arrests, after having raised the registration plate, therefore, of course, that the vehicles in question are equipped with plates, which is obviously not always the case. This also causes significant noise and air pollution, especially when it comes to so-called unbridled vehicles. I am thinking here, in particular, of the pocket-bikes, which, forbidden on the road, are often used maliciously. Initiatives taken, in particular, by local elected officials are not sufficient; The public authorities often express their dismay at, in particular, the sense of impunity that has been mentioned on several occasions. It was therefore necessary not only to guarantee security, but also to ensure respect for the right to tranquillity, as we know the abuses to which it can be flouted. The creation of a specific crime enabling the authorities to apprehend this phenomenon more effectively is a message addressed to those who have nothing but to make conditions of our common life. Nevertheless, these provisions will not be the magic wand. They must not exempt us from our obligations, from conducting youth policies, from providing resources for social ties, associations, police officers and gendarmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group, on several benches of the GDR group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] It would be of no use to punish better if we were not more concerned and better educated, to prevent and, above all, to mobilize our forces so that the sense of living together, which alone can reinforce individual responsibility, can be regained. May this bill, which the New Left Group will of course vote on, be the starting point for a comprehensive reflection that we so much need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u46	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u47	[["Ah! » on various benches]] Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to convey to you a little indignation. I have heard many trans-party reflections, but trans-partyism does not go as far as La France insoumise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u48	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u49	However, it cannot be said that we are not vigilant, involved, concerned about the subject. In my constituency was recently committed a rodeo offence, during a braderie, causing wounded – citizens who tried to interfere. The thugs were able to escape without great difficulty, before being fortunately found afterwards. I wish there was not too much sectarianism in our chamber, especially on subjects like this one. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The common narrative on urban violence is old and not limited to rodeos; This violence sparked the first media months in 1981 in Vénissieux, in the Minguettes district. However, we are all in agreement with the observation that the particular phenomenon of motorised rodeos has increased in recent years. Yesterday, during questions to the Government, our dearest disaster from the inside...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u50	This is unacceptable! A little respect for the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u51	... recalled, in a firm – but undoubtedly human – intervention, from his point of view, the extent of this crime: 8700 rodeos observed by the national police and 6700 by the national gendarmerie. Dangerous behaviour, road traffic violations, noise nuisances, certain environmental impact and, above all, endangering the lives of others: rodeos are an important source of disturbance to public order and tranquillity. To talk about my little person, in Lille, I regularly see these behaviors in my neighborhood. Colleagues, each and every one of us can see this when he exchanges with the citizens of his constituency or the local elected representatives. I told you about the rodeo that, at the Sunday raid in Fives, injured three people. The indignation of the inhabitants and the elected representatives is legitimate, moreover, in view of the sense of impunity experienced by the perpetrators of these acts. In the face of this phenomenon, we also share the view that the municipal decrees and the ad hoc coups de force of the police and the gendarmerie are not, in themselves, sufficient and that legal simplification is necessary. We are therefore rather in favour of the creation of a specific crime, which will facilitate the work of the police. However, your bill does not escape several pitfalls, on which I will return. First of all, your text does not take into account the difficulties that will arise from its application. One of the main problems raised by rodeos to the security forces is the complexity of the inquiry, as you see in the explanatory memorandum to your bill. Law enforcement often refrain from prosecuting individuals caught in the middle of a rodeo, as the risk of the offender, the police officer or a third person being injured during a chase is high. I referred earlier to the example of rodeos at the Fives Braderie: the following weekend, the police and the gendarmerie conducted a major operation to combat this phenomenon. The operation, prepared in advance, and the numerous law enforcement forces mobilized, have made it possible to carry out multiple arrests. In order to combat this phenomenon, the police and the gendarmerie must also be empowered, and not add a new mission without additional resources. Indeed, if there are no police officers to find out the offence, all possible and conceivable laws will remain in vain. It might even be counterproductive to devote such lengthy debates to a phenomenon that one claims to eradicate without changing anything, or almost, in the real world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u52	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u53	The recent Senate report on the state of the internal security forces can only encourage you to increase the resources. As I recall, the number of overtime was the equivalent of 13,000 full-time positions in 2017. For the operation in Fives alone, twenty police officers were mobilized; In the Lille metropolis, six police officers constantly deal with this phenomenon, which is done, of course, to the detriment of other missions. Secondly, if it is necessary to equip the law enforcement agencies with an effective legal arsenal, adapted to the specificities of the offence and capable of being rapidly implemented, the offence of rodeo, having regard to the necessary prevention of recidivism, must not have as a reference the prison. Under the guise of a strict approach against the phenomenon, you prefer the penalty of imprisonment. To the group La France insoumée, we reply that this is a mistake: in order to be fully effective, we must give priority to alternatives to imprisonment, which are more appropriate in a criminological approach. They are based on road safety training and care obligations in the case of drug use. This is not a question of laxity, for if an individual committing a rodeo hurts or kills a third person, the qualification would no longer be that of a rodeo offence, but that of involuntary homicide. When there are dead, the criminal qualification changes, of course. Moreover, at a time when our prisons are facing endemic overcrowding – on this subject we have very interesting debates in and out of the law commission – that everyone, detained and staff of the prison administration, suffers, it is irresponsible not to question the relevance of the use of prison according to the offence committed. Is this the only response our society can provide to urban violence? We propose, for lack of impact assessment – since this is a bill – an in-depth criminological approach, taking as a reference the work of general interest. We must do prevention of recidivism, because I want less delinquency; However, the recidivism rate is 34 per cent after community service, compared with 61 per cent after a prison sentence. Do you want more or less repeat offenders? The question arises in these terms. Finally, your text only addresses the phenomenon from a repressive perspective. There is nothing about prevention, and it is not the various interventions I have heard on the subject that reassure me that there will be prevention. When you confuse prevention with increased fines and prison sentences, you're wrong! This is, at best, deterrence, not prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u54	Prevention is when you pass the license!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u55	Where, for example, are the resources allocated to street educators, those people who, specialized in the prevention of crime, are sometimes the last link with young people abandoned by school and already identified by the justice system? However, as a result of budget shortages and cost-effectiveness requirements, street educators are reduced to grief. I met some of them in the North, which proposed a preventive mechanism, involving colleges in priority neighbourhoods, where rodeos are the most numerous, and strengthening the school road safety certificate – ASSR – so that the questionnaire would be accompanied by practical experience with police officers. This project could not be created because of lack of money. That's what prevention is: either we do it or we don't. For now, we don't. With this bill, you are showing your sense of priority. You stigmatize a young population from the working-class neighbourhoods – in fact, in your interventions, you always evoke street phenomena in our neighbourhoods and urban nuisances, while rodeos are numerous in the gendarmerie zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u56	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u57	According to sociologists, these phenomena of urban violence find their origins in contexts of poverty and social and economic insecurity. In order to combat them, we must therefore also consider the underlying reasons for them. Thus, the establishment of public services, the rapprochement of the police and the population and the creation of jobs in the neighbourhoods are the real levers to tackle the deep evils, which the phenomenon of rodeos is only a manifestation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In conclusion, we have tabled an amendment to replace prison sentences with work of general interest. Our vote on the text will depend on what happens to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u58	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u59	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the proposal for a law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos. We will vote for this text and welcome the almost unanimous vote this afternoon in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u61	The current situation is disturbing, as these wild, two- or four-wheeled rallies are very dangerous, exasperate the inhabitants and leave the public authorities, including the police and local elected officials, in disarray. In 2017, according to data provided by the Ministry of the Interior, 8700 rodeos were found by the national police alone, i.e. in urban areas. In Seine-Saint-Denis, there are no longer many incartades that thrive in our neighbourhoods. These rodeos are a real hell for the inhabitants, who are deprived of sleep because of the nuisance caused by scooters, motorcycles or other quads. Social relations and, more broadly, the quality of life of our fellow citizens are permanently degraded by the actions of a handful of individuals. But rodeos are also, and above all, dangerous behaviors! Dangerous, in the first place, for residents, especially the elderly, mothers and children, terrorized in public spaces and often in danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u63	They are also dangerous for the perpetrators of these acts, who sometimes act unconsciously and with vehicles that do not always meet the standards. There have already been dramas, the best known of them being that of Villiers-le-Bel, where two young people died in 2007 after the collision of their mini-moto with a police car. Riots followed in Val-d'Oise. This dangerousness is a hindrance for police and gendarmes, who are now reluctant to prosecute rodeo perpetrators and who even receive instructions for caution, which is understandable. These situations are also very frustrating for the people, who sometimes come to do justice themselves. In March 2017, a man, over-repeated by repeated nuisances, shot a teenager in a scooter in Bagneux, in the Hauts-de-Seine, wounding him in the arm. These incidents are obviously unacceptable. It is imperative that we have a stronger arsenal against these practices, because the current law is insufficient. The police forces, as well as the donors and local elected officials, continue to express their impotence, which I myself have been confronted with. Fines remain too little dissuasive today and the arrest in flagrante delicto is complex to implement, because of its dangerousness. As a result, there are few arrests, and those that take place rarely result in dissuasive judicial follow-up. These behaviour, in fact unpunished, flourishes in the neighbourhoods. The situation is all the more worrying as we have recently witnessed an upsurge in rodeos, doped by the social networks on which their authors post images of their exploits. Therefore, we will vote for this healthy bill, which responds to the repeated aspirations of local elected officials and residents. First, the tightening of fines will have the effect of effectively deterring rodeo authors, which has not been the case so far. In addition, the mandatory confiscation of the vehicle used to commit the offence will, we hope, significantly impede these activities. This text will make it possible to intervene a posteriori by means of searches, in particular in building cellars. But there is probably a lack of a preventive component. This absence, you say, will be corrected by regulations. Which act, but we will be vigilant about it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to put an end to these repeated impunitys and to adapt our right to the evolution of this scourge and this crime. For all these reasons, our group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u64	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u65	Madam Chair, Minister, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, albatross, amazone, superman, cobra, one hand: the list of acrobatic figures of the wheeling,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u66	You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u67	... which consists on a motorcycle, a quad or a scooter, to hide, rolling on the rear wheel. The list of variants of this practice is also long, such as the cross-bitume, the latest mode from the United States, which aims to engage, always on a rear wheel, on a fast-paced road. This reveals how the practice of motorized rodeo has settled, confirming the observation of its increase in our cities, on their periphery, but also in our countryside. The majority of drivers are young people, travelling alone or in a band, sometimes with stolen vehicles, at excessive speed and often in places where pedestrians and other vehicles pass. Let us not deny that these are exhibitions, seen by their authors as performances filmed and broadcast – I say this to Mrs Sage. As a result of these dangerous speed peaks and acrobatics, accidents are increasing. As has been said, law enforcement agencies can only rarely intervene to prevent drivers from endangering themselves or endangering others, as it is difficult for them to prove the offence. What do local residents, pedestrians and other road users then say, witnesses to such acts? That the noise is unbearable, that they can no longer walk in their neighbourhood or sleep and that these young people remain unpunished. The practice of rodeo therefore generates a feeling of insecurity and exasperation in the face of noise nuisances and apparent impunity. We, together with my colleagues in the LaREM Group and on my initiative, set up a working group on the subject last fall, with many local elected representatives. On several occasions, we have held meetings with senior officials of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice, the Delegate for Road Safety and actors on the ground,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u68	I wasn't invited!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u69	... so that they share their experiences and give their views. I also welcome the work done by the field players in Valencia and Drôme in my constituency. With several colleagues, we have exchanged a lot, explored several avenues and asked whether we should legislate or simply encourage good practice from the existing legal arsenal. We have come to the conclusion that the latter is no longer sufficient and that it is necessary to legislate in order to speed up and combat the scourge we are talking about in a sustainable way. Based on the evidence we have gathered, we have drafted and tabled this bill. With a single article, it amends the road code by introducing dissuasive penalties, including confiscation and administrative detention of the vehicle in violation by police and gendarmes. The characterization of the offence will facilitate the work of the law enforcement agencies, the latter being liable to one year's imprisonment and 15,000 euros in fine, at least doubled in the event of a recidivism or aggravating circumstance. The bill is not only repressive, it is also a deterrent. For example, several speakers, including Mrs Florennes, raised the issue of solvency in the event of a fine. The bill, I said, is dissuasive because our goal, in place of prison, is also to do pedagogy so that the individuals concerned understand that they have put themselves in danger and have also put others in danger. With this in mind, the scheme provides for the use of work of general interest and the obligation to carry out, at the expense of the individual concerned, a road safety awareness course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u71	It is therefore necessary, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the bill. It even needs to be adopted before the summer – I am speaking here to our honourable senators – in order to settle a peaceful cohabitation between vehicles, residents and passers-by,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u72	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u73	Summer's already here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u74	Before the end of summer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] ... and so that the albatross is no longer a figure of stunt practiced on the public road, but remains "the prince of the clouds" sung by Baudelaire, and that "Exiled on the ground in the middle of the hues/His giant wings prevent him from walking" – but not because of a tetraplegia following a rodeo accident.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u76	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u77	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, what is the reason why a Member of Parliament from a very rural constituency such as my own should be involved in this debate on the fight against motorised rodeos?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u78	We're wondering!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u79	Common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u80	It is that this scourge is not confined to metropolitan areas and urban suburbs. As honorary mayor of a commune of 5000 inhabitants, I can attest that the local elected representatives are unfortunately confronted with these drifts, amplified in tourist areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u81	Yes! With the Ninja pots!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u82	In the city and in the countryside, we are all confronted with the problem of motorized rodeos, these wild gatherings, by scooter, motorcycle or quad that cause noise nuisances and insecurity for many of our fellow citizens. The police, in order to avoid an accident, often hesitate to embark on a race-prosecution with these road offenders, who endanger not only others, but also themselves. Instead of intervening directly and risking the tragedy, the police must simply raise the license plates and confiscate the vehicles after the blow, summoning the troublemakers to the police station. Often, only the non-wearing of the helmet and the excess speed can be held against them. For several years, many parliamentary initiatives to combat motorised rodeos have unfortunately not been successful. These include the bill to strengthen the fight against urban rodeos, registered as President of the Senate on 14 October 2015, the bill to combat motorized rodeos on public roads, registered as President of the National Assembly on 17 October 2017, and the bill to facilitate the repression of motorized rodeos registered in the Senate on 21 November 2017. This proposal for a law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos, which comes from the LaREM and MODEM groups, is therefore the latest. Let us rejoice in this transparant text, or almost!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u83	Almost!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u84	The Government seems to have heard the elected officials, who have been denouncing the problem for several years. Perhaps we will find effective solutions to remedy it. Even today, a taxi driver told me that he crossed highway A 106 with criminals throwing their vehicles on the rear wheel and narrating the motorists. Unfortunately, these unacceptable behaviours are largely unpunished, due in particular to the difficulties of questioning their authors and to texts that are neither adapted nor dissuasive. This bill provides for increased penalties and penalties for acts committed in a meeting, under the influence of alcohol or aggravated by the use of narcotics. In addition, it provides for additional penalties, such as the confiscation of the vehicle or its administrative detention. Minister, you recalled the figures of the Ministry of the Interior: 8700 police interventions and 6600 gendarmerie in 2017, an increase of almost 20% compared to 2016. As several members of a district council in Strasbourg, dear to President Studer, have told me, the inquiries of the mayor, the prefect or the public prosecutor, or even the minister concerned, have not borne any fruit to date. There are sometimes a few short lulls but, overall, nuisances persist, with sometimes serious consequences: endangering users of sidewalks and bike paths, as well as motorists who cross bands of mopeds leniently grilling red lights and refusing priorities. The stress generated by noise nuisances, brought to very high levels by these devices – some of which are not even approved for use on public roads – is all the more unbearable because they sometimes last until late in the night, especially in the summer. The sense of impunity of the perpetrators of such acts, as well as the repeated provocations they engage in, encourage some residents to leave neighbourhoods where the quality of life is deteriorating, whether because of stress, loss of sleep, annoyance or noise and air pollution. These inhabitants sometimes go so far as to put on sale their housing, depreciated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u85	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u86	A firm response must therefore be given to offenders who appropriate public space, thereby undermining public peace and security. The text will make it possible to suppress such behaviour and to provide new answers to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups as well as on a few benches of the MODEM group]] It was to be hoped that the strengthening of the investigative capacity and the increased training of law enforcement personnel, as well as their increased collaboration with the judiciary, would enable the CLSPDs to put an end to motorized rodeos. I therefore call on our colleagues to vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u87	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u88	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, when the good days come, there are always two categories of French: those who are waiting for this moment with satisfaction, planning to take advantage of it, and those who fear it, because it is a source of embarrassment and inconvenience, as many of our colleagues have pointed out. That is to say, the bill is timely. It presents several reasons for satisfaction, including the strengthening of the repressive framework for the practice of motorized rodeos. It also provides for several additional penalties, such as confiscation of the vehicle, suspension or cancellation of the driving licence for up to three years, community service, a fine-day penalty, a ban on driving certain motorized land vehicles and a road safety awareness course. Another reason for satisfaction is the fact that this House is again debating a text on the subject. Indeed, two observations are widely shared on our benches. The first is the scale of the phenomenon, in both rural and urban areas. The testimonies abound, transmitted by the elected representatives present here but also by many citizens, especially the mayors who live daily the inconveniences caused by motorized rodeos. The second is the difficulty faced by public authorities, especially local elected officials, in curbing the phenomenon. I also welcome the fact that the text refers to any land-based motor vehicle. The new offence will apply equally to vehicles subject to approval and those not subject to approval, thus to approved and non-approved vehicles. Finally, we should welcome the work of the rapporteur, Natalia Pouzyreff, who has been able to refer to and draw inspiration from the parliamentary initiatives emanating from the various groups in the Assembly. This is not the first time that Parliament has tried to legislate on this matter. So I remember that two years ago, almost to the day, we unanimously adopted a text at first reading. This was a bill defended by Rémi Pauvros. It dealt with the noise nuisances of the modified two-wheelers and the motorocross rodeos, which were banned from running on the public road. Of course, this text targeted only unapproved two-wheelers, but proposed an interesting device, and even, on some points, more comprehensive and concrete than the one we are discussing. Its main advances were the harmonisation of the sanctions regime – it is true that the mechanism proposed today also stems from this requirement – the automatic confiscation of the vehicle from the first offence – also provided for in this bill as a supplementary penalty – the obligation to install silent exhaust equipment – unfortunately absent from this bill – and the immobilization of an overly noisy vehicle – also absent from the text. This leads me to make two reservations, despite which our group will vote on the bill. Repressive, it provides only a partial response in the first place. As Hervé Saulignac pointed out at the moment, the text does not go far enough in terms of the means given to the police and prevention services. Moreover, it would have been appropriate to provide for a greater sanction for non-registered vehicles, as provided for in Rémi Pauvros's bill. Similarly, the confiscation of vehicles used in rodeos should have been systematic and mandatory. Finally, the text makes no mention of measures to limit what might be called the externalities of motorised rodeos, such as the cost of safety, pollution and degradation of public goods. Thinking about the safety of offenders, who endanger other road users and themselves, and the safety of residents and their children, is essential. It seems to me a lack of a more in-depth approach to the issue of noise nuisances and a sticking to repressive rules. In my capacity as President of the National Noise Council, I recall that the social cost of noise in France is estimated at EUR 57 billion per year. This is a real subject of general interest, which must therefore be fully taken into account in the texts we are debating. For example, a take-off aircraft emits a noise of approximately 140 decibels. But the threshold of pain is set at 120 decibels. A registered car emits 80, about the same as a school restaurant. Motorcross-type two-wheel vehicles can reach 120 decibels at full speed, which is simply intolerable, even in dispersed areas of habitat. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The explanatory memorandum to the proposal of the Act states that it will be supplemented by regulations. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to contact the National Noise Council so that they can integrate this dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u90	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u91	Madam Chair, Minister, Commission Chair, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 November 2007, in Villiers-le-Bel, Val-d'Oise, urban riots were unleashed by unprecedented violence. For three days, the French were the spectators méducated from war scenes, with the looting of dozens of shops and arson, including the destruction of a library and a school. For three days, police officers were the targets of organized gangs, determined to "kill cop" with the massive use of Molotov cocktails and firearms. In the Val-d'Oise department alone, the results were extremely heavy, with 119 police officers injured, 81 of them by chevrotine fire and 5 by larger-calibre gunfire. I would like to greet our police officers, who, as always, showed their professionalism in restoring the Republican order with extraordinary cold blood, without firing any shots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u92	We must also greet the elected ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u93	Even yesterday, in three sensitive areas of Nantes, they were confronted with an intolerable outbreak of violence following a response against a threatening individual who was the subject of an arrest warrant. Our law enforcement forces deserve the respect and recognition of the national community on a daily basis in view of the dangerous nature of their mission and the limited means at their disposal to ensure our security. The dramatic events of Villiers-le-Bel occurred following a fatal accident caused by two young people riding a motocross. For the past eleven years, governments and local authorities have been confronted with the explosion of the phenomenon called "urban rodeo", which is a very pudic name for an illegal occupation of entire neighbourhoods causing intolerable nuisances for the residents. This phenomenon, which has become a fashion in the suburbs, rots the daily life of many of our compatriots, who no longer support the rear wheels and the sound accelerations of cars, scooters, quads and motorcycles that perform, day and night. In 2017, nearly 9,000 wild rodeos were officially registered in our country, reflecting the scale of these behaviors that extend the rightless zones to the city centres, and now to the rural territories. In some communes, the situation is such that the inhabitants come to fear the arrival of the fine days and its procession of noises, screams, jets of bottles of alcohol, deterioration of urban furniture, open-air traffic and violence against passers-by, forced to shave the walls. These urban rodeos are only the unbearable consequences of endemic crime in the suburbs. In these neighbourhoods, populated by massive and anarchic immigration, an underground economy has been built up from multiple drug trafficking, weapons, medicines, procurement and cash transfer systems. These profits fuel the impunity of the caïds who disregard the laws of the Republic. The prefect of the North said recently: "The rodeos hide another phenomenon: the occupation of space by those who trade drugs". Indeed, scoundrels and dealers take advantage of these gatherings on the public road to feed trafficking with impunity: the police, scalded by the judicial follow-up of Villiers-le-Bel, refuse to risk a race-prosecution. This bill is relatively interesting on paper. But, between the parliamentary ink and the bitumen of the cities, the gap is unfortunately absent. What is the value of the laws if there are too few police officers to enforce them? What is the value of laws if laxism gangrene the judicial institution, disarming the rule of law? What is the value of laws when penalties are not enforced, when sanctions are derisory or symbolic? What is the value of laws when the ideology of "living together" favours the rogue and weakens the action of women and men who wear the uniform of the Republic? Responsible, the deputies of the National Rally will vote in favour of strengthening the legislation to combat motorised rodeos. But we are lucid; Because we keep in mind the denials of the last governments, from Nicolas Sarkozy's Kärcher to the false closures of the radical mosques of Gérard Collomb, we have no illusions about the real scope of this text. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] You do not, Madam Minister, have the will to change things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u94	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we meet very often, during our permanences, citizens whose daily lives are disturbed by the nuisances caused by quads, motorcycles, mini-motorbikes or various vehicles whose only aim is to make as much noise as possible or to go as quickly as possible. We deplore these behaviors in our neighbourhoods, in our green flows, in the alleys of our forests and sometimes even in our villages. Everywhere, they provoke the exasperation of our fellow citizens facing these situations. Local residents can no longer do so, and many feel that those responsible for ensuring their safety and tranquillity are unable to fulfil their mission properly, especially in the face of this phenomenon. They urge us to act, before violence breaks out or a serious accident occurs. How can we respond to those who question us by asking us where the authority of the state is? Despite the existing legal arsenal, the authorities seem to be disarmed in the face of these dangerous phenomena. I have discussed this subject on numerous occasions with many police officers, both municipal and national, and I testify that it is not the will to act that is lacking; But they face the complexity of possible actions and the inadequacy of the legal framework. This complexity is due in particular to the instructions not to engage in chase races. The reasons for these instructions, which I agree with, are obvious: such a reaction would add danger to the security forces, to the violators and to all those who are on their way. The risk of an accident is significant; Unfortunately, it has already happened. This reality therefore requires the utmost caution in the questioning of this type of infringement. Most of the feelings of the police against the phenomenon of motorized rodeos are a sense of failure of the republican law: failure because the legal means are now notoriously insufficient and because the phenomenon and its dangerousness are underestimated; failure because it is difficult to stop the offence and to question the perpetrators, two tasks of the essence of the police profession; Failure because vehicles are rarely found and, therefore, this scourge persists or even develops, vehicles travelling with impunity between neighbourhoods, or being hidden in inaccessible private spaces; The failure of the police who no longer know what to respond to the population, because it can no longer do so. Our public service is not up to the challenge; It does not have the efficiency that is expected of it, which leads to misunderstanding and anger, or even to the desire to solve the problem without recourse to the public authorities. It is therefore urgent to put an end to the illegal actions of some of these machine drivers. The stakes go far beyond road safety and the finding of infringements. It is from a real conquest of public space that we need: some inhabitants no longer dare to leave their homes. As evidence, this is the testimony of a resident of my constituency: "This street is the playground of these young people. We're sick of nerves. We used to walk here for fun, but now it's over. The police don't do anything. They watch them pass, and then that's all, even without a helmet. This testimony proves it, if necessary: there is an urgent need to act. The fight against motorised rodeos requires the improvement of our legal arsenal – this is what this bill proposes – and the strengthening of preventive measures. On the first point, the text proposed to us represents a step forward. The systematization of vehicle assets is, for example, much expected by the police in the field. It should also be made clear that the concept of "open to public traffic" will make it possible not to distinguish between public and private roads. From the moment their access is free, private roads as well as car parks will be affected. In addition to the punishment of crimes, preventive action is also needed, particularly in schools, to raise awareness of road safety among our young people. National education staff are already involved, and it is always good to involve the police. With this bill, actors in the field will have effective tools. Mayors, services and residents will be pleased to know that law enforcement agencies are being given the means to act, in a time which is unfortunately particularly conducive to this type of activity. This text will enable the law enforcement agencies to work even more for the benefit of the living together and the serenity of the population. I would also like to welcome the action of the police – police and gendarmerie – who sometimes intervene in extremely dangerous conditions, in order to put an end to these rodeos. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By mobilizing all the mechanisms put in place in recent years – the priority security zones, video protection, the strengthening of the resources allocated to the police and the gendarmerie, the establishment of the daily security police – and by adding this bill, it will be easier for the law enforcement agencies to combat motorised rodeos. By voting on this text, we are therefore contributing today to the improvement of the effectiveness of public action and to the strengthening of living together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u96	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u97	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, when I entered this Chamber, I thought Marseille was the only city affected by wild rodeos. I was wrong: Marseille is no exception, and I could almost congratulate myself that my city is in this case a city like any other... But wild rodeos are a real calamity. The magnitude of this phenomenon required us to take advantage of it in order to provide an appropriate, balanced response so that our law enforcement agencies could confront this scourge, both in our neighbourhoods and in our rural areas. I was still at noon with journalists asking me if it was necessary for Members of Parliament to mobilize on such a bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u98	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u99	As long as human lives are at stake, it seems to me that it is obviously our responsibility to act. Taking up this subject is growing, and I thank all those who have worked on it. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Smile]] We must protect, and first of all our children, against the trivialization of this practice which is developing in all our territories. As proof, I want the poster boasting a Jul album, on which he rides a motorcycle – I don't know if some in this Chamber know this singer whose name I would never have imagined saying one day in session! I have nothing against Jul, even though I don't like his texts, and I have nothing against the fact that some people have fun on motorcycles. But we need to make it clear what society's response is; We have to say what is allowed and what is forbidden. I am not one of those who mixes the offenders who use motor vehicles with those who, unconscious, at the age of thirteen or fourteen, have fun with these vehicles for lack of anything else to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u100	You don't think they're conscious?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u101	Mr Bilde doesn't mind, you can drive motor vehicles at the age of 13 or 14 without being an offender – or even later become a Member of Parliament, since I am in front of you today. We must also protect the inhabitants, because these rodeos stress them, and sometimes even put their lives in danger. Our fellow citizens must feel that the Republic is behind them, and that will be one of the effects of the vote on this text. I do not believe, however, that the passage of this bill will immediately lead to the disappearance of wild rodeos. Our fellow citizens must hear this: as legislators, we are doing our part to provide law enforcement with appropriate deterrent tools that enable them to be effective on the ground. The police, the gendarmerie, then seize these possibilities to really eliminate this scourge. It is true that there is a lack of a preventive part of this law. But here we respond to the urgency: my fear is that a tragedy will happen in Marseilles, that an inhabitant who is out of control will come to extreme solutions, that a young person will get hurt or even kill himself. This bill must therefore be voted on. I now call for work on prevention. In particular, we could regulate sports practice, such as motocross – for among those who engage in these wild rodeos, there may be nuggets – but also offer other activities, less dangerous and more age-appropriate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] This text is balanced. It allows us to crack down on dangerous behaviour and protect our fellow citizens, but also to support the forces of law and order in the difficult task they do every day to protect us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u102	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u103	First of all, I welcome the collective will to curb this phenomenon, and thus to meet the expectations of elected officials and law enforcement officials, many of whom recalled how strong they were. We want to act. But it is not for us to stigmatize neighbourhoods. Mr Bernalicis, you want more police presence: this is what we do with the daily security police, which aims to bring the police closer to the population. With regard to the penalties incurred, which you wish to return to, I would point out that they are left to the judge's discretion: justice will not systematically seek the imprisonment of a minor, for example, and it knows how to distinguish between first offenders and repeat offenders. We have made provision for the imposition of a public service labour penalty. As far as prevention is concerned, there are already mechanisms, including prevention courses. Of course, we could use the socio-cultural centres already present in our neighbourhoods. But let me quote here the gendarmerie cadets – I had the chance to attend this week, with a few colleagues, to present a new promotion. Those with whom I spoke were marked by a look at the law enforcement agencies. This experience taught them a lot and made them grow in responsibility. It is by multiplying such initiatives that we will be able to make prevention and calm relations. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who have called for this text to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u104	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u105	I would naturally like to thank the speakers, all those who support the text and the rapporteur, for the important work that has been done. I will try to answer everyone by addressing several themes. First of all, with regard to the police and gendarmerie resources, as you know, in 2018 the appropriations for the police and gendarmerie were increased compared to 2017. Ten thousand additional police and gendarmes posts will be created during the quinquennium. In addition, the rapporteur recalled, a daily security police will be set up, which will allow for the provision of appropriate responses, with greater proximity. Thirty republican reconquest districts, those affected by strong crime, will be created. In addition, the gendarmerie will be strengthened in the twenty most exposed and difficult departments. This Government is therefore making remarkable efforts towards the security forces. Secondly, with regard to prevention, a very important aspect, mentioned in particular by Mrs Sage, Mr Peu and Mr Bernalicis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u106	And Mr. Saulignac!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u107	... remarkable work is already being done by associations, such as Road Prevention. I assume that many of you are familiar with this association, which, through road safety, and hence the state, carries out educational work in schools, colleges and high schools. Together with the interdepartmental road safety delegate, we continue to reflect on the measures that we can develop to strengthen prevention. Following the words of Said Ahamada, I would also like to quote an initiative, presented a few days ago at the Overseas Assisis. In La Réunion, a motorsport association, together with other structures, initiated a project to combat motorized rodeos. Together with police and gendarmes, it organizes activities in schools to raise young people's awareness of the risks of rodeos. A project is under consideration to build a mechanical sports circuit in order to develop the practice of motorized rodeos on a closed and secure circuit, instead of wild races, very important in La Réunion where they are called "the push". The Government will support this project to end the many fatal accidents affecting young people. I would also like to highlight the role of retired gendarmes, who are doing remarkable preventive work with young people. All good ideas must be grasped, wherever they arise, in order to further strengthen prevention. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I would like to take this opportunity, Mr Bernalicis, to tell you that, in general, prevention also involves education, which begins by teaching young people the respect of our institutions and of those who represent them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u108	He's been looking for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u109	Secondly, with regard to the suppression of excessive noise, I would like to reply to Mr Bouillon that, in our legislative or regulatory arsenal, in order to be criminally reprehensible, noises and their emissions must be objectified. It is not possible to suppress excessive noise without objectiveizing excess noise, each being more or less sensitive to noise. Thus, like positive law, the bill provides for the suppression of noise if it is objectively abnormal, because it is created by dangerous manoeuvres. As a reminder, as you know, positive law punishes in particular nocturnal noises and malicious calls. Mr Bouillon, as President of the National Noise Council, must know this important subject. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Finally, Mrs Sage, minors are fully affected by the law, within the framework of the 1945 Ordinance. I would also like to point out to Mr Little the importance of the regulatory aspect that will follow: circulars and telegrams will be sent to our police and gendarmerie forces as soon as the law has been passed, so that they can quickly appropriate the new legal tool created by the bill. All these provisions will be integrated into the daily security police – PSQ. It is very important that the regulatory aspect follow quickly the passage of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u110	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u111	Several speakers are inscribed on the single article. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u112	With the good days, urban or wild rodeos are back, and with them the exasperation of the residents, who fear for their safety and that of their children, and do not understand that nothing can be done to prevent them. Nothing to do is not entirely correct, because it would already be possible to act with the current legislation, even if this bill would make it possible to do more, which is a good thing. This is not the envy of our national or municipal police forces, or of the gendarmerie, for rural areas. Yes, but here's the deal. Villiers-le-Bel syndrome is playing full. The fate of these two young people, who died on motocross, hit by a police car, and the 119 police officers injured, some by bullets, in the ensuing riots were recalled. There is much talk of instructions not to prosecute offenders. Some even evoke a circular, although the minister of the interior, Gérard Collomb, denied it. "The police must act with caution," he said. Whether these instructions exist or not is of little importance, because they exist in the heads. The cops feel stuck. As soon as the pursuit is too risky, they give up, with all the frustration and disillusionment that this entails. A report from the Senate has just pointed to the extreme unease of our police. This finding of impotence in the face of the authors of urban rodeos is part of this malaise. Being narrated every day by teenagers, kids who see their power in the face of law enforcement, is probably worse than the lack of material resources. Since these instructions do not exist, it would be sufficient for the Minister of the Interior to send a clear signal to the security forces, so that they feel not humiliated, but supported. In this regard, minister, I have noted your willingness to send out circulars or directives as soon as this bill has been passed. I was last weekend on the new square in the city centre of Béziers, where a musical fountain has just been inaugurated. To prevent her from turning into an outdoor swimming pool, a regular police presence was organized there. In front of me, a group of young boys aged 11 to 14 laughed at the agents present, calling them, among other things, "chickens." [[Applause from non-attached Members]] The Senate's report speaks of a police force facing, among other things, a major "social challenge." That is exactly what it is: challenge and, above all, contempt. And that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u113	Mr Bruno Studer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u114	First of all, I welcome the method we have followed. The first meeting we held, with Mireille Clapot and Natalia Pouzyreff, continued with work with the Ministries of the Interior and Justice. I would like, Madam Minister, to highlight the quality of the relationship we have been able to establish with your collaborators and with the staff of these departments. I sincerely thank them, on behalf of the inhabitants of the third constituency of the Lower Rhine, who, from the beginning of the election campaign and then from the beginning of my term, alerted me to the impotence that this phenomenon of rodeos symbolized in their eyes. In fact, he urged them not to vote any more: basically, why vote since we were unable to act on a phenomenon that poisoned their lives and to take care of what was happening on social networks where these rodeos can take on a spectacular scale? I also allow myself to associate the mayors of my constituency, who have asked me since the beginning of the legislature. I am also pleased that we have achieved almost unanimous agreement. It leads me to believe that the Senate, which represents the elected representatives of our territories, will quickly vote on this bill, which truly concerns all French people. Finally, allow me to associate the forces of law and order with these few words, because they are doing a remarkable job in the service of public peace and security. Here too, there was some discouragement because of the means that were not available to stop this phenomenon. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Of course, a law is neither a miracle nor a panacea. Its implementation will need to be addressed. To monitor it, to ensure that the police have the necessary resources, we will be able to count on our vigilance as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u115	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u116	In August 2017, in Wissous, Essonne, in the riding of Amélie de Montchalin, a twenty-year-old died in a wild rodeo. The day before, a 13-year-old lost his life in Coignières. Also in August 2017, it was 300 young people, who left Grigny, who invaded the road near Saint-Germain-lès-Corbeil, in my constituency, fortunately without causing any casualties. In Esonne, ninety-seven rodeos were recorded last year and at least sixty-two have been recorded since the beginning of the current year. In the good days, these rodeos or assemblies of motorized vehicles start again: quads, scooters or motorcycles, often unapproved, whose drivers, sometimes very young, do not wear helmets, travel in disregard of safety rules, whether on the streets, on the roads or in our forests. These young people, who risk their own lives and that of other users, exasperate the residents. The police intervene in extremely dangerous conditions to stop or prevent these rodeos. Last week, they were rocked again in Hyères, while they were trying to get a quad back. Police officers and gendarmes from my constituency told me that there was an urgent need to act. They welcome this text, which gives them real means by introducing a specific offence, for which aggravating circumstances are foreseen, but also an offence of inciting, organizing or promoting, in particular via the Internet, these rodeos, as well as the possibility of confiscating the vehicle, which will prohibit any recidivism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text is based on initiatives from all sides. Adopted unanimously in committee, it was placed on the agenda of the special session by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister whom I would like to thank. It is therefore the result of collective work that will improve the security and tranquillity of many of our fellow citizens, but also restore faith in public power, as Bruno Studer said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u117	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u118	We can only welcome this single article establishing a legal framework adapted to the repression of motorised rodeos. The cowboys of bitumen are a growing scourge. I can attest to this as an elected member of a constituency of the Hauts-de-Seine which is frequently the scene of these practices of great danger to both public road users and those who engage in them. Let us recall the tragic consequences for these teenagers of rodeos in Coignières, Wissous, Massy or Villiers-le-Bel. Insecurity, danger, noise nuisances, carcases of motor vehicles scattered all over the world: the consequences of these rodeos are also unbearable on a daily basis for many of our fellow citizens, who often live in priority areas of the city's already heavily weakened policy. Rodeos are finally difficult to manage for elected officials who are overwhelmed by such a climate, incompatible with a peaceful living environment, and often deprived to provide answers to their citizens. I would like to welcome the progress contained in this unique article, which fills the lack of repressive means available to law enforcement, by making these rodeos a specific crime, which will facilitate their prevention as well as their repression. The recommended penalties will deter such practices and, where appropriate, impose appropriate sanctions. The immobilization and seizure of the vehicle is also an important tool to combat recidivism. Finally, the penalisation of incitement complements the legal arsenal by allowing for upstream intervention. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I was just exchanging with a few young people from my constituency who came to attend our debates. They wondered how they could entertain themselves if the rodeos were taken from them. I made a double promise to them: to make every effort to protect them – this is the subject of this bill – and to finally offer them other forms of entertainment that this deadly practice is – that is the whole issue of politics that we are pursuing in favour of neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u119	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u120	"We all have in our hearts a piece of iron to wear, an old dream scooter to do the circus in the neighborhood." I would like, ladies and gentlemen, like all of you here, only to mention the nuisances in which we have certainly participated in our early childhood on our legendary Peugeot 101 mopeds to impress the friends of the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u121	[[Smile]] Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u122	Unfortunately, motorized rodeos have become the scourge of our neighbourhoods and our countryside – all territories are concerned. Over time, this phenomenon has increased and its consequences are disastrous: noise nuisances, insecurity, endangerment, destruction of agricultural plots and, unfortunately, lives lost in tragic circumstances. Our fellow citizens can't do it anymore. It was time to act! Today, the authorities no longer have the strength to fight the problem, as the repression is weak. This gives rise to a strong sense of abandonment in the population, but also and above all in our police and gendarmerie forces who feel helpless. It now seems necessary to establish a legal framework to facilitate the suppression of such behaviour. Despite attempts in previous legislatures, no law has been definitively passed. Members of the LaREM Group, and well beyond, attach particular importance to this bill, which must be completed as soon as possible, because urban rodeos are very frequent in summer. Finally, let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen: in certain neighbourhoods, and in particular in my constituency of Roubaix and Wattrelos, the rodeos in organized gangs are spreading terror among the inhabitants in order to conquer territories and to deliver them to trafficking of all kinds, including narcotics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This law conveys the message of our sustained trust in our police and gendarmerie forces. It is part of one of the major projects of the Ministry of the Interior, the daily security police, which aims to improve the conditions for the exercise of the police forces in order to better ensure the protection of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u123	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u124	In recent years, especially in the summer, the phenomenon of motorized rodeos has been increasing and is affecting the safety and tranquillity of our citizens, both in urban and rural areas. Through very dangerous acrobatics, on the rear wheel or on skid, criminals grab roads, sometimes very passable, or private property. They put their own lives at risk, as well as those of the residents, who also suffer from noise nuisances. In some towns or villages, motorized rodeos have become unbearable. In 2017, more than 15,000 interventions by the gendarmerie and the police were recorded. This small vandalism has real consequences in terms of insecurity and nuisances faced by law enforcement and local elected officials, for lack of specific legal arsenals. These practices, which are totally disrespectful and very dangerous, are exported to rural areas on small roads or in private properties such as agricultural fields, leading to disarray, exasperation and, above all, very serious material damage. In my constituency, for example, which is both urban and rural, many of my fellow citizens have alerted me. In particular, several farmers told me that rodeos had been organized in their fields, sometimes bringing together more than fifty motorcycles or quads and completely destroying the crops, sometimes even before their eyes. Beyond the financial loss, these acts are all the more unacceptable because farmers are completely powerless in the face of the destruction of their crops. What do you do when fifty people meticulously destroy the fruit of your labor? The gendarmes came to see the facts but, given the size of the rodeo and the number of participants, they could not intervene to put an end to it. However, I would like to commend the work done in my constituency by the departmental gendarmerie company with farmers on the occasion of the consultation on the daily security police. This consultation led in February to concrete measures, such as the creation by the gendarmerie company of a pool of coordination of the agricultural world accessible seven days a week. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I welcome this bill, which creates a crime and specific sanctions. The police and gendarmerie will now be able to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u125	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u126	Minister, as you can see, the LR Group is not grudged. We know how to recognise and vote on the bills of other political groups when they go in the right direction. I am referring to the bills that have been tabled by the members of the LR group and that have been completely denatured or rejected by your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u127	Some have been adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u128	In the fine days, some residents of urban or peri-urban areas, but also rural ones, are again subjected to the twists of motorcycles, motocross or quads launched at full speed in the streets. These behaviors are as dangerous for their authors as they are unbearable for our fellow citizens who suffer the noise of these wild rodeos. They often take place on the sidewalks of the communes, on the parking lots of supermarkets, sometimes even in the playgrounds of squares and parks, not far from young children. All mayors and elected municipal officials feel destitute in the face of the magnitude of the problem – I have seen it, since I was mayor for sixteen years. The police are also in difficulty, as the young people flee as soon as they arrive. The speed with which alcohol and sometimes narcotics are used makes any attempt at questioning particularly difficult. So yes, we agree with you to allow law enforcement to detain the perpetrators of wild rodeos and systematically confiscate the vehicles. The offence is punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of 15,000 euros – two years and 30,000 euros if committed in a meeting. These penalties may be increased in the event of aggravating circumstances, such as alcohol or drug use, and may extend to up to five years' imprisonment, i.e. the same penalty as for involuntary homicide, and €75,000 fine. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will vote, of course, we will vote on this bill, but I would like the Government to explain to us how the police and gendarmes can more easily question the perpetrators of rodeo after the passage of this law. Is the authority of the law strong enough in our country to ensure that the threat of punishment is sufficient to deter such dangerous behaviour? It will take resources for the security forces to carry out their new mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u129	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u130	I wanted to thank my fellow members of the study group that initiated this bill. Once adopted, this text will provide concrete solutions to local actors to prevent and punish urban rodeos. While some may feel very little concerned about this phenomenon, which affects many French communes, those who are confronted with it in their towns or villages, whether they are elected or inhabitants, feel particularly deprived today. Between noise nuisances and high road insecurity, the consequences are obviously harmful. The text contains major advances in order to combat this scourge, which poisons the lives of the residents and endangers the authors of incivilities as well as the passers-by who avoids dangerous manoeuvres. Two important provisions are the definition of a specific offence that is easy to characterize and the possibility of confiscating the vehicle used to commit the offence, regardless of whether the driver owns it or not. In 2016, in Toulouse, a 23-year-old motorcyclist broke two 15- and 16-year-old high school girls. On the day of the events, he rodeoed in front of Raymond Naves High School: he sneaked into the school yard, lost control of his equipment and struck the two girls, one of whom was seriously injured. In 2017, Hello Toulouse received 1,031 calls denouncing rodeos. Today, by stopping the count in May, the number of calls is already 576, an increase of 10%. It was therefore more than necessary to take strong measures as summer approached to combat the proliferation of urban rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u131	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u132	The fight against motorized rodeos is an absolute necessity. This growing phenomenon affects all territories without exception. Like many colleagues, I no longer count mail and exchanges with excessive residents, destitute elected officials and police officers who feel helpless. Noise nuisances, road insecurity, disturbance to public order, endangering the lives of others, questioning the authority of the State: the consequences of these incivilities are numerous and dangerous. I can therefore only welcome the inclusion of this text on the agenda, even if, as the explanatory memorandum says, the majority group does not have the paternity of the text. Many colleagues, including my predecessor on these benches, Édouard Courtial, had campaigned to fill the legal vacuum. At a time when a mislabelling of the traceability of a product is criminally sanctioned, the absence of specific legal incrimination for this type of fact is neither understandable nor acceptable. We cannot tolerate this form of impunity. It is therefore up to us to strengthen our legal arsenal in order to give our law enforcement agencies the tools to act effectively against these practices which must no longer have the right to be cited in the territory of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is what the text proposes after five years of inaction in which thugs prevailed over victims. In this way, I will vote without hesitation on the bill, going beyond partisan divisions and in the interests of the general interest. But be assured, Madam Minister, of our great vigilance with regard to its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u133	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u134	Urban rodeos are a considerable nuisance for those who suffer from them, both in terms of safety and noise, which can be particularly unbearable in dense and urban areas. It should be noted, however, that these behaviours also take place in rural areas and in the heart of large cities, and not only in peripheral urban areas. It was urgent to act to put an end to it. In my constituency in 2013, a follow-up race between individuals on motorcycles and police officers ended with a tragedy at the foot of the buildings, resulting in a severely injured collateral victim. Five years later, I am being arrested by people who have been overwhelmed by this phenomenon. These actions do not only create dangerous and harmful situations in certain territories; they also undermine social cohesion, and the inhabitants end up tearing themselves apart. This bill will provide a clear framework for law enforcement to ensure that these behaviours do not go unpunished. The legal means given to police personnel – such as the immobilization of the vehicle – will enable them to act quickly and to stop these rodeos. In addition to this repressive aspect, we will also have to work on prevention by increasing awareness of the dangers posed by such behaviour and, more generally, by accompanying these individuals according to the territories concerned on issues related to civility and, also, employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, it will be necessary to offer our young people supervised activities, cultural or sporting, including through social centres and neighbourhood houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u135	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u136	Ten percent: this is the increase in the number of urban rodeos recorded between 2016 and 2017 in the city of Strasbourg alone. This figure helps explain the many calls for help from people in my constituency who no longer support these repeated incivilities. This scourge poisons the lives of the inhabitants of all neighbourhoods and, even more so, of the inhabitants of so-called "popular" neighbourhoods. These urban rodeos, besides disturbing public order, endanger those who practice them. This law is effective in two ways. First, greater severity towards offenders who violate the road code by endangering residents and creating noise nuisances such as a family night is transformed into a cacophony. Using the offence of nocturnal noise allowed only a third class violation, ranging from 45 to 180 euros; This law brings the penalties that were lacking: prison sentence firm and heavy fine. Second, the law protects the practitioners of these rodeos against themselves: they certainly endanger the lives of others, but, first and foremost, theirs. The confiscation of the vehicle is therefore absolutely necessary, but it is also necessary to ensure the follow-up of these persons. That is why I believe that the obligation to carry out a road safety awareness course is essential in order to prevent any attempt at recidivism. I can therefore only welcome this bill, in line with President Macron's commitments to combat incivilities of all kinds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u137	And to the commitments of all the candidates in the presidential election!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The police will finally be able to rely on a clear and precise text and thus effectively fight against urban rodeos. Everyone has the right to calm and serenity in their place of life. The people of our country will be the first beneficiaries of this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u139	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u140	I would like to draw attention once again to the lack of resources and concerns of law enforcement officials, particularly when their intervention in attempting to challenge the perpetrators of these offences is likely to create a greater disorder than the one to which they are designed to put an end. Therefore, the bill that we are going to be voting on today must only be a first step. Indeed, if this text strengthens the legal arsenal, we also need to strengthen the means given to law enforcement to combat this feeling of impunity – which everyone here has mentioned – which too often prevails among those who cause such nuisances. More resources must be made available. We must also continue to develop the video surveillance system, which allows for the arrest of ex post facto troublemakers. At the same time, consideration should also be given to strengthening prevention among young people and families. In this capacity, and as you said, Madam Minister, why not draw inspiration from the secure and accessible land that was set up in La Réunion – I had an identical example to give you concerning our Belgian neighbours? [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] It is necessary to work for prevention, but also, as we do, for the suppression of those acts that harm the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u141	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u142	The fight against incivilities, especially on the road, is a subject that, of course, concerns us all. The aim is to protect users, but also to give the competent authorities sufficient powers of restraint to deter perpetrators from recidivism. In terms of road incivility, motorised rodeos are a particularly dangerous practice that has tended to multiply on our roads in recent years, many of us have said so. Several colleagues, both on these benches and in the Senate, have seized the subject several times. The single article proposes both a clear definition of the offence and the penalties incurred by the perpetrator. The latter, which seem to us perfectly proportionate to the dangerous nature of motorised rodeos for both road users and the perpetrators themselves, also take into account the various aggravating circumstances which, in fact, tend to occur. The increase in the sentence for all cases of motorized rodeos in meetings and under the influence of alcohol or astounding is in my view necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I hope that the clear definition of this crime and the legal arsenal proposed to us today will enable law enforcement agencies to fight more effectively against this scourge, which, beyond the noise that it causes for the residents, is a real source of insecurity for road users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u143	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u144	These rodeos are in many of our suburbs a noisy and unbearable illustration of the reversal of values in our society, so strong with the weak and so weak with the fort. Citizens are obliged to support a state that tolerates in certain places and always at the same time of the week irresponsible practices that nothing can justify: high-speed races, "back wheels", unbridled slaloms in traffic, insane accelerations, all of which often without helmets! The police are ordered not to intervene. In addition to the horrific inconveniences faced by local residents, there is a deep sense of abandonment and injustice, an injustice born of the manifest impunity of these thugs who act in the knowledge and in the sight of everyone. As you know, nothing is more harmful to a society than injustice. The social disorder born of such practices does not stop there: it would be misleading to see there mere drifts of turbulent teenagers. These manifestations of road violence must be interpreted as real provocations to the established order and to the public authorities. It is a way for some caïds or gangs to mark their territory, to indicate that their law applies here, not that of the Republic, that the police are not welcome and that they can endanger the lives of others with impunity. The debate is that of the rule of law in our suburbs, that is, the restoration of the credibility of the state through zero tolerance. These rodeos must generate systematic intervention, subject to automatic prosecution with, at the key, heavy violations and, possibly, criminal sanctions for endangering the lives of others. This zero-tolerance policy is the one that the National Gathering is asking you to implement today. We will vote on this bill, we will be very vigilant about its implementation and, above all, about the means given to our law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u145	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u146	Here are some thoughts on the complexity and difficulties of apprehending offenders in flagrante delicto. Indeed, the latter proceed with the purpose of provoking, because provocation goes to the limits of security both for them and for those who pursue them. There are also difficulties in identifying both the driver and the vehicle because, most of the time, young people wear masks or hide their faces in any other way. It is therefore necessary to equip our police and gendarmerie forces with additional human and material resources: means of investigation – why not the establishment of special motorized brigades in each agglomeration? –, permission to visit cellars of collective buildings by a judicial police officer because we know – I was mayor – how difficult it is to proceed without a search warrant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u147	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u148	I welcome this text aimed at combating wild rodeos. I listened well to the general discussion, during which the dangers of these behaviours were widely stressed, both for those who practice them and for those who live in them. We have often heard that we need to promote better education, better prevention – my colleague Hervé Saulignac has spoken widely about this. A question was also frequently asked: how to apprehend these troublemakers? Whether or not this law is passed, we will have to solve these difficulties tomorrow, even though they might have been passed yesterday. That implies another question, Madam Minister: will we have the means to do so? You gave us some guarantees for 2018 by reminding us of the increase in the budget compared to 2017, but I remind you that in 2017 we could perhaps already give a little more resources to our gendarmerie, which had to undergo a credit cancellation of a little more than 25 million – it is a pity, when we know the ground and listen to our gendarmes: how do we understand that it is necessary to cancel credits at the end of the year? So we certainly had the means to act in 2017, we will have even more in 2018, but I hope that we will simply have the will to deploy them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u149	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u150	I heard earlier that a crime was finally going to be created, that the vehicles could finally be confiscated. I don't know where you live, but during the Lille operation led by the prefect and the departmental directorate of public security, convictions took place because of the crimes that had been committed, as well as the confiscations of scooters and motorcycles – I remind you that the refusal to comply is already a crime and that it is often such a characterization that, in this case, is retained. We agree, it is not easy, it is not directly aimed at motorised rodeo, but there is already a crime to qualify these acts and it is possible to confiscate a vehicle. Moreover, we are already struggling to enforce the law! It is this question, the question of the practical application of this crime so characterized and the means available to the police, which must be at the heart of our reflection. On the other hand, I do not know if we should be happy about the creation of prison sentences since they already exist in case of refusal to comply and rodeos continue! I am not sure that tomorrow these young people change their behaviour by saying to themselves: "Ah, flute, a law has just been passed in the assembly. I'm going to have to be careful... "Unfortunately, that's not how it works! You were talking about an interesting circuit experience. I remind you that I interviewed the Minister of the Interior: three policemen were assigned full-time, in Lezennes, in my constituency, on a circuit set up by a former Member of Parliament more than thirty years ago to respond to the road crimes committed by young people; The police or the gendarmes were questioning them, they were going to take classes on the circuit where they found the same policemen, and these three policemen were assigned elsewhere, because the legal setup was not terrible! Either, but why would you deprive yourself of a tool that worked? Why, on the contrary, not strengthen it? That's what we should do! Then, with regard to legal assembly, stewardship will follow! Unfortunately, that's not what's going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u151	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] I am very much in favour of this bill to combat motorised rodeos. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the mayors. I myself have been mayor for sixteen years and I know how many, whatever their label, they fight against these acts. This is difficult. As we have pointed out on all benches, we are always afraid that these individuals will kill someone or kill each other, as happens frequently. My riding is particularly sunny and I have no seasonality problem: motorized rodeos, we have them fall, winter, spring, summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u153	Like in Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u154	Like in the Ardennes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u155	Perhaps we live more often than others the open window, but I can tell you that there is no seasonality phenomenon – I would not say the same with regard to school holidays. I would also like to recall the overwhelming Senate report on the situation of our police and gendarmes. We have to pull the alarm bell, Madam Minister! Our police officers, our gendarmes don't understand that an offender can leave five minutes after his arrest. There has been a widening gap between the police and gendarmerie, on the one hand, and the world of justice, on the other. It is up to you, as in the case of Mrs. Keeper of Seals, to bring these two worlds closer together. The ditch is widening! Finally, I would not like to put a bliss at a time when the climate of our debates is benevolent, but, Madam Minister, there are still areas of lawlessness in our country where police officers and gendarmes cannot enter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u156	That is not the subject we are debating.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u157	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As long as they exist, motorized rodeos will continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u158	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u159	I too am pleased that this bill to combat motorized rodeos is a consensus. I would point out that these are not just urban rodeos: there are also rural rodeos, which are just as dangerous, and pose real environmental as well as safety problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u161	I want to stress two points. First, as Ugo Bernalicis said, it is true that vehicle seizures are already possible: but they must become systematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u163	We must not leave these dangerous vehicles, these heavy cylinders, in the hands of those who make rodeos every day on the quiet roads of our neighborhoods. Secondly, the more dissuasive sanctions imposed by this bill will only be effective if our law enforcement agencies are given additional means of action. From this point of view, Madam Minister, I must express my concern: I do not think that the daily security police will be enough to deter urban rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u164	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u165	However, of the 10,000 additional personnel you have announced for law enforcement, the PSQ will take over a number of them. In rural areas, too, this problem will arise, since the gendarmerie will be the poor parent of these increases: in the best case, only 2500 new posts will be opened in the national gendarmerie, or 25 per cent of the additional staff. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte also applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to repeat what our colleague Éric Diard said very well: in some quarters today the republican order and the Republic itself have completely disappeared. Fighting motorized rodeos is also a way to lead the Republican victory in these neighborhoods. We must not let go of this: that is why I insist so much on the need to confiscate and give additional resources to our law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u166	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u167	So far, only road traffic offences and the endangerment of people allow the intervention of law enforcement forces to put an end to an urban rodeo. In all cases, the offence must be proved, in particular by video images, failing which the offence is not constituted. For example, it is necessary to provide images showing that a pedestrian was about to be hit by the motorized vehicle. All this results from a strict interpretation of the current legislation by the trial courts. Only characterized offences can lead to a significant criminal response and confiscation of the vehicle. When possible, the criminal response and confiscation are dissuasive: few recidivisms are found. This bill is intended to add a new article L. 236-1 to the road code. This article introduces a new offence of habit, which will allow the law enforcement agencies to prosecute those accused as soon as they "undercut the safety of road users" or as soon as they "disturb public tranquillity". This text thus has the advantage of efficiency: it will enable the persons concerned to be prosecuted and to seize the motorised machinery with which the rodeos take place. At the same time, drivers of two-wheelers who commit a one-time behavioral error are protected. In order to constitute the infringement, intentional manoeuvres that violate the driver's obligations of prudence and safety will have to be repetitive. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is public impotence that causes the loss of confidence of our fellow citizens in the state. We will remedy this with this bill, which I congratulate the authors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u168	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u169	I would like to take up the figures for 2017: more than 9,000 interventions have taken place, sometimes involving arrests. It's not nothing, but it's just the visible part of the iceberg. Motorized rodeos are a real plague: they have spread, can take place anywhere, any time, not only in urban areas, but also in rural areas, in small towns, where they poison the lives of the residents. Mayors, local elected officials and law enforcement officials sometimes find themselves deprived of this phenomenon. That is why we welcome the fact that you have presented this text, which receives the consent of the entire national representation, of the Members sitting on all the benches of this House: this is a good thing. This friendly episode, however, must not mask the reality, namely that in certain neighbourhoods, in certain areas, the police have no right to a city: the law is not respected, the Republic is flouted there. Beyond the fight against road crime, it is important to remember that the law must apply, that offenders must be prosecuted with force and firmness. Our legal arsenal will be developed: I welcome it. But the question of means remains, as my colleagues have said on several occasions. It comes up even more forcefully as a recent Senate report takes stock of the state of the troops – if I may say so – and the moral state of our police officers and gendarmes. They accumulate overtime – which counts in millions – and complain that they are not always considered or understood by their hierarchy. They need – this is an opportunity to reaffirm it – the support of national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I conclude by expressing the hope that this bill, whose provisions will be in addition to the provisions already contained in the Penal Code, and that we will adopt - I hope - unanimously, will allow us to move forward in the right direction. It is necessary to increase repression, and at the same time to do pedagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u170	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u171	The essence of this bill has been said: the intentions of its authors are legitimate, but questions remain about its implementation, in particular because of the lack of resources of the law enforcement agencies. With this speech on the article, I would like to receive answers from the Minister on the timetable for two specific measures, which you have told us are under consideration, and which we have already mentioned, on behalf of the GDR Group, in the general discussion. First, Madam Minister, are you working on a system of specific registration plates for vehicles not subject to reporting, in order to allow for the effective identification of their drivers? Secondly, will you condition the acquisition of these specific vehicles if you obtain a professional card or an approved sports license for the purchase? If so, how and when? Another provision could be considered: the administrative declaration to the reference community, in this case the municipality. We have talked a lot in this debate about the municipal police officers, who are often involved in these actions on the public highway. In order to be fully able to stand alongside the national police, the town halls should be closely involved in identifying the holders of such vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u172	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u173	Our discussions this afternoon attest to the scale of the phenomenon of wild rodeos. We need to legislate in order to better punish this road violence, which threatens the physical integrity of its perpetrators and that of road users. Above all, our fellow citizens must no longer be forced to suffer from these noise nuisances, noises which often force them, when they have to stay at home, to close their windows despite the heat that is difficult to bear in the summer. This bill is the result of transparency work, field work. In the Essonne, of which I am elected, motorized rodeos are a recurrent cause of exasperation. It is therefore essential to prevent and deter such behaviour. In this department, which has more than 1.3 million inhabitants, 18 sectors out of a dozen municipalities are affected by this problem. Between September 2017 and May 2018, 130 anti-urban rodeo operations were conducted by the police and gendarmerie. Seven people were arrested for committing a crime, fourteen violations were noted, and only two vehicles were seized and impounded: it is far too little. Of course, there must be sanctions and prevention: that is the purpose of this text. But we can see that we will also have to act in the field of education by mobilizing all the actors, as the President of the Republic so rightly suggested in presenting his project for our working-class neighbourhoods. We talked about it a few moments ago with Julien Denormandie, during his hearing by the assessment and monitoring mission. In particular, it will be necessary to include mothers, whose role is essential to protect children, educate them and help them grow up better. We need these "moms standing." Some of them oppose motorized rodeos, at the risk of their lives: I am thinking of this young mother of Maisons-Alfort family who almost lost hers a few days ago. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We must therefore acquire the necessary legislative arsenal to eradicate this scourge that poisons life in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u174	We come to the amendments. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1 and 9. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u175	This amendment is intended to replace, in paragraph 4, the word "is" with the words "is an offence", in order to clarify the degree of qualification of the criminal offence. The provisions of this bill will thus be easier to read for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u176	Mr Robin Reda has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u177	In view of our almost unanimous opinion on this text, let us not be afraid to assume that we are characterising a crime. It's about arresting criminals! That is why we propose a clearer wording on this aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u179	We have already had this debate during the examination of this text in committee. I then made it clear that it is not necessary to state explicitly in the law that a particular offence is an offence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u181	These amendments are intended to clarify that the offence created by this bill, which will be included in a new article of the Road Traffic Code, is an offence. This is of no legal interest: in criminal law, the quantum of the penalty is sufficient to define the nature of the offence. Moreover, no law enforcement legislation provides for such a clarification. Consequently, the Government is opposed to these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u182	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u183	It would indeed be interesting to point out that this is an offence and that we are dealing with offenders. Madame de Montchalin spoke of the Maisons-Alfort case, where a mother who had opposed a rodeo was spit on, before being prosecuted, beaten, and even bitten by an attack dog. Now this person regrets having intervened. She told the newspapers: "I'm not sure my behavior is good to follow. It was probably a bit of a horseman on my part. She now intends to move, and for fear of reprisals, she has not even dared to file a complaint. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We have to qualify things, say what they are: we have in front of us criminals, sometimes bullies of the worst kind, who must be treated for what they are. In the law, you have to call a cat a cat, and a felony a felony!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u184	On Amendment No 11, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u185	With this amendment, the Group of the European People's Party wishes to delete the reference to imprisonment, while maintaining the significant levels of fines provided for in the text. For our group, it is excessive, and especially ineffective in preventing recidivism. Philosophically, this bill retains imprisonment as a reference penalty, and only mentions alternatives to incarceration such as community service – TIG – as complementary penalties. For our group, sentencing arrangements and alternatives to incarceration should not be conceived as tools for managing prison flows. It is therefore the responsibility of the legislator not to systematically provide for a reference prison sentence for all offences and crimes. France considers that in the prevention of recidivism, it is more effective to condemn participants to motorized rodeos to an alternative measure to imprisonment rather than to prison. From the point of view of the target population, we believe that an autonomous punishment of TIG, a punishment rich in meaning, would make it possible to prevent these anti-community acts more effectively and to reoffend them. Robert Badinter considered that this sentence of TIG has a dual purpose: to avoid imprisonment and facilitate reintegration, allowing "to calm the anguish of a society for which, when there is no prison, there is no sanction".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u187	Let the judges do their job and impose the most appropriate sentences for each case. The bill offered a wide range of penalties, including fines, and the proposed prison terms were maximums. Refusing to qualify this offence as an offence would cause the building to collapse. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u189	In criminal matters, the penalties of imprisonment and fine are the reference penalties. This reference penalty does not prevent the judge from imposing other penalties, in accordance with the provisions of article 131-3 of the Criminal Code. This is the case of work of general interest which can be decided by a judge by virtue of his power to individualize the sanction. Thus, article 131-8 of the Criminal Code provides that "where an offence is punishable by imprisonment, the court may prescribe, instead of imprisonment, that the convicted person shall perform, for a period of twenty to two hundred and eighty hours, unpaid public service work for the benefit of either a legal person governed by public law or a private legal person entrusted with a public service mission or an association authorized to carry out public service work". It is therefore unnecessary to provide for these provisions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u190	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u191	Come on! Sentences of general interest! And why not practice good driving or driving while we're at it? It is up to the judge to decide on the timing of sentences, that is true, but let us not forget, Madam Minister, that the persons in question are often organized into gangs, that they are dangerous, in general armed, when they do not engage in any kind of trafficking. Rodeo is often only the visible and emerging part of the iceberg. It is normal for a person who endangers the lives of others to be incarcerated. We must send messages of firmness to those people who live in cities where respect for the law is a forgotten notion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u192	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u193	You are completely wrong, my dear colleague. Some young people are proud to have been sentenced to prison and this is how a real delinquent path is forged. They come out hardened, ready for recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u194	Let them do it, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u195	I didn't say that. General interest work is the most effective measure to prevent recidivism. It's not the panacea, I give it to you, but it gets the best results. You say they have weapons, they're involved in trafficking. It is possible, but it is then other articles of the Penal Code that apply. In any case, it is not because they cannot be caught when they commit these offences that the rodeo must be turned on. That would be a confession of weakness. I refuse to do so. As for making the TIG the main penalty, you know that the debate will take place on the occasion of the next reform of the justice system. A number of judges, legal professionals, are in favour of a triptych of the sentences imposed – fine, probation, prison sentence – and the autonomy of the probation penalty, including the TIG. I know that the judge today can pass this sentence, but the judge is following the evolution of the law. If a decision were made to make the TIG the reference penalty, he would be more willing to impose it, as well as other complementary penalties, as training courses of good conduct. Let us be ambitious, let us not give up on the easy-to-custody solution, which has not proved its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u196	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u197	However, the minister was very clear. Sentence enforcement judges are responsible for examining the extent to which alternative sentences may be imposed, which may lead to community service. The ongoing reform of the justice system also provides for the extension of the possibility for the judge to impose alternative sentences where possible and desirable. It is not possible to be clearer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u198	It is not a problem of clarity but of disagreement! Suffer at least that we do not agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u199	I put to the vote Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u200	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 2. On this amendment, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u201	This amendment tends to correct a weakness of the text. Modification of gear power is often the preliminary step to rodeo. We therefore propose that you sanction in the same way the owners of vehicles who spend days and nights trading their equipment in order to then display their performances in front of their friends! The adoption of this amendment would make it possible to complete your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u203	Measures to combat noise pollution fall within the regulatory area. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u205	The behaviour referred to in these amendments is already sanctioned or, if not already, cannot be sanctioned. Indeed, the road code already includes articles that sanction changing the power of vehicles subject to a speed limitation by construction – article R. 317-23-1 thus penalises the clearing of mopeds – or the fact that any land-based motor vehicle emits noises likely to disturb road users and residents – article R. 318-3 punishes in particular the modification of the silent exhaust system of a vehicle. Furthermore, as planned today, the change in the power of vehicles is indicative of particular danger only when it concerns vehicles subject to a design speed limitation such as road transport vehicles and mopeds. For other vehicles, the dangerousness of the behaviour will be established, in particular in the event of an exceedance of the authorized speed. Indeed, the modification of a vehicle does not in itself constitute a violation of a particular obligation of safety and prudence, compromising in itself the safety of road users or disturbing public tranquillity. However, these amendments would result in the same penalties being imposed on the owner of a vehicle which has changed its power even though its behaviour is exemplary, and on the person whose driving is really dangerous for the users. In the light of the principle of proportionality of penalties, the imposition of a device to modify the power of a vehicle or its noise cannot be punished by the same penalties as the adoption of a dangerous driving which endangers the safety of road users, or which disturbs public tranquillity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u206	A year in prison to change an exhaust, that would be severe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u207	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u208	We support our colleague's amendment, because it is essential to take into account the cluster of clues that allow, even before the act of a wild rodeo, to identify those who are about to contravene the rules that we are going to introduce. We have raised the problem of the difficulty of questioning people engaged in acrobatics on two-wheelers or four-wheelers. It is known that, in general, they are either machines whose power has been greatly increased, or machines which are already powerful, poorly controlled, and which are not made to roll on the bitumen. It does not seem aberrant, in these circumstances, to reflect on how to identify and punish, upstream of rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u209	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u210	Your comments legitimize our colleague's amendment. You claim that changing the power of a vehicle is not an offence. However, such handling weakens the vehicle which is not always suitable for supporting it and driving at a speed higher than that foreseen during its construction, which constitutes a danger to other users and justifies a sanction. These actions alone undermine the road rules and the principles of road safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u211	You didn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u212	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u213	Madam Minister, I understand your arguments, but on the ground there could be no rodeo if, upstream, the owners of the vehicles had not spent whole nights trading them. If you want to remain consistent while respecting the proportionality of the penalties, introduce a penalty that is more severe than the one already included in the road code and less severe than the one sanctioning rodeos. The only goal of the owners of these vehicles is to show off their gear in front of their boyfriends!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u214	I put Amendment No. 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u215	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u216	The meeting was resumed. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u217	The aim of this amendment is to combat the noise pollution caused by the untimely and unwarranted accelerations of large cylinders, in particular the so-called luxury, high-end or sports cars, and motorcycles, in or near inhabited areas – such nuisances, as I have seen, can even occur in the 7th arrondissement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u218	There are Porsches in the 7th!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u219	Yes, it is. The penal sanctions regime provided for here would be the same as for the fight against motorised rodeos, but the penalty of imprisonment would be abolished. Carrying out untimely accelerations with its big cylinder capacity doesn't deserve a year's imprisonment! I prefer the work of general interest, which can be modulated between 20 and 280 hours: in this context, the judge's assessment should rather be aimed at a small sentence. Through this amendment, we want to stress that you are targeting certainly harmful behaviour, while taking the risk of leading to the stigmatization of a particular category of the population, young people from working-class neighbourhoods, even though urban and road incivilities are multiple. I do not go back to article R. 318-3 of the Road Traffic Code, which provides for only a fourth class violation in the event of noise pollution. This amendment explicitly refers to very high-power vehicles responding to a specific demand from a limited number of consumers. It aims to ensure equal treatment: it would not be fair for the nuisances of large cylinders to be treated differently from those caused by motorized rodeos. However, as you have refused my Amendment No 11, I am withdrawing it because, I repeat, I do not think that the text should provide for drivers to be put in prison for such behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u220	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u221	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Members of the Democratic and Allied Movement and of the Republic in motion, the rapporteur and the Minister, who have worked on this text with a view to providing a pragmatic and proportionate response to a problem that undermines the elected representatives of the territories concerned. The text does not, however, solve the problem of rural rodeos – or of a certain type of rural rodeos – which also cause a disturbance to public tranquillity – the object of this new crime. I am thinking in particular of the bikers who remove the silencing devices, or chicanes, from their exhausts to emit maximum noise. This type of behaviour is already sanctioned by the road code with a fine of 90 euros, which is obviously insufficient, since in my constituency, in the Chevreuse Valley, the gendarmerie brigade punished between March and July 2017 four speed violations, eight alcohol offences and fifty-four offences relating to the traffic of vehicles not equipped with regulatory equipment. For the Commander of the Chevreuse Gendarmerie Brigade, the current rule of law does not effectively deter motorcyclists, especially since the simplicity of disassembly of the exhaust chicane puts this operation at the disposal of any owner. However, the noise that is emitted by private vehicles from their silencing system poses, I repeat, problems of public tranquillity and health. That is why this amendment proposes to sanction this type of behaviour in the same way as urban motorised rodeos, i.e. a fine and imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u223	I understand the great inconvenience caused by such acts. However, here again, their sanction falls within the regulatory area. Therefore, while I ask you to withdraw your amendment, I can only encourage you to plead with the minister for an increase in the level of the contravention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u225	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, your amendment takes over the provisions of Article R. 318-3 of the Road Traffic Code to include them in the legislative part of the same code. This article, which provides that the engine shall be equipped with a silent exhaust system in good working order, without the possibility of interruption by the driver, shall sanction any operation aimed at suppressing or reducing the efficiency of this device. We do not think it appropriate to make this offence an offence, which is, as I said earlier, punishable by the same penalty as motorised rodeos, in so far as rodeos are characterized by dangerous driving and harmful to public tranquillity and are therefore marked by a greater danger than the simple transformation of a silent exhaust system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u226	What a laxity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u227	I understand the arguments that have already been put forward, notably by Mr Di Filippo: it is obvious that this noise is difficult to bear. However, it is not possible to match these two types of behaviour. The Government therefore asks you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u228	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u229	I withdraw my amendment. However, I call on the Minister, in conjunction with the other ministries concerned, to reflect on the matter and to refer the matter to the National Noise Council so that we can have objective measures of the noise generated by the two wheels in the event of such behaviour, in order to be able to suppress them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u230	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u231	I wish to take up this amendment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u232	So I put him directly to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u233	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u234	Two years' imprisonment and 30000 euros' fine are a fair penalty for those who take part in wild rodeos when they are committed in a meeting, because noise nuisances must not be fatal for the French, especially since these rodeos pose inconsistent risks to those who practice them and the law enforcement forces themselves are confronted with situations that put them in danger, as well as the surrounding population. The convictions for wild rodeo must be severe, in particular when the acts are committed in a meeting, as provided for in paragraph 5, but also in one of the three other circumstances: when individuals ride without helmets; when individuals conceal their faces by means of any garment that does not permit the identification of the person by the law enforcement authorities; where the motorised equipment on which the individuals practice rodeos is not registered. These penalties must be firm because, we do not see the face, wild rodeos are part of the petty crime that makes the daily life of the French unbearable. To condemn petty crime severely is to bring peace and security to our cities, suburbs and countryside. In essence, this method is based on the one used in the 1970s in New York, a simple method that has borne fruit: zero tolerance for petty delinquency with a view to eradicating great banditry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u236	These offences are already being prosecuted on the basis of various articles of the Road Traffic Code. If the driver does not wear an approved helmet, for example, section R. 431-1 provides for a fourth class fine, the immobilization of the vehicle and the removal of three points from the driver's licence. Similarly, in the absence of a registration plate, article R. 317-8 provides for a fourth class fine and the immobilization of the vehicle. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u238	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u239	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u240	Of course, we support everything that goes in the direction of strengthening sanctions. Indeed, the magic of social networks allows many of our fellow citizens, including outside our constituencies, and especially in the Seine-Saint-Denis, to share videos that really show the horror that wild rodeos can represent in the daily life of people who suffer them, in the night or in the early morning. I repeat, I support everything that goes in the direction of strengthening sanctions. I would have liked this amendment to also provide for a strengthening of the sanctions in the event of an offence of flight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u242	It's already planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u243	In fact, wild rodeos endanger not only the lives of our law enforcement personnel, but also the lives of all those in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u244	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u245	I am well aware that the punishment of these offences is already provided for, but my amendment seeks to strengthen the penalties when these offences are committed in the context of wild rodeos. In fact, it is a matter of considering these offences as aggravating circumstances to the offence of wild rodeos – which I believe is not quite the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u246	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u247	Wild rodeos are generally unacceptable, but especially when they take place in certain places. I am thinking first of all of the enclosure and the surroundings of educational, educational and administrative institutions during the period of affluence. I am also thinking of places where pedestrians, especially children, can be found – rodeos have already been seen in a shopping gallery, and they are almost common in parks, in the vicinity of children's playgrounds. Finally, I am thinking of ways and places open to public traffic, as well as areas where traffic is prohibited during festive events – although the streets are blocked for cars and reserved for pedestrians, the authors of wild rodeos infiltrate them. Basically, what I'm asking for is firmness. The places I have just mentioned are family places, open to the public: the least that can be done is that the State protects them. These wild rodeos should not create insecurity, inconvenience or even fear in our cities and villages. France must not respond to this phenomenon by laxity, especially when rodeos put our children at risk in front of a school, college or high school, for example. We need to send a strong political signal. The right to tranquillity is an essential freedom that the State has a duty to protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u250	Of course, riding in a schoolyard poses a very high risk and constitutes an offence of endangering the lives of others. So the facts that you mentioned are already crimes. With regard to motorized rodeos, our bill will apply. In all cases, the situations you have presented will be covered by the legislation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u252	In our view, this amendment is not appropriate. Indeed, in order to suppress motorised rodeos, the text provides that it must be established that dangerous driving has been carried out "in conditions which endanger the safety of road users". The fact that the place of commission of the facts is frequented will therefore be used by the judge to characterize a constituent element of the main offence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u253	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u254	I understand the explanations given by the rapporteur and by the minister, but my amendment is aimed at making the organisation of wild rodeos in these particularly dangerous places an aggravating circumstance of an automatic nature. In other words, we would no longer need to prove the dangerousness of the place where the wild rodeo was made, since the law would specify which these dangerous places are – children's playgrounds, shopping galleries and any place normally reserved for pedestrians. This automatic character would make it possible to better punish the perpetrators of wild rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u255	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u256	This amendment concerns persons travelling without a driver's licence, whose number now stands at 600,000 in France. In order to take account of this reality and the risk it represents, it is necessary to add to the aggravating circumstances provided for in Article L. 236-1 of the Road Traffic Code that of a driver who is not a driver's licence holder or whose licence has been cancelled, invalidated, suspended or withheld. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Therefore, account should be taken of the addition of this third aggravating circumstance by increasing the sentence to five years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 75000 in case of cumulation of at least two of the three aggravating circumstances provided for in Article L. 236-1 of the Road Traffic Code, namely driving under the influence of alcohol, narcotics or without a permit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u257	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u259	These are indeed aggravating circumstances. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u261	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u262	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u263	I welcome these favourable opinions. We unanimously welcome this amendment, which will also allow for a much stronger typing of repeat offenders whose licences have been suspended. For my part, I fully support this amendment and welcome the favourable opinion of the Committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u264	I have before me two amendments, Nos 4 and 26, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u265	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] According to figures from the Ministry of the Interior, the number of police interventions for sound rodeos increased by 20% between 2016 and 2017. From January to April 2018, the authorities carried out more than 200 interventions for the Paris area alone and the small crown. These alarming figures demonstrate the need to strengthen sanctions. While titanic means of repression are being used to combat alcohol while driving, the sanctions against wild rodeo enthusiasts remain derisory. If you wish to put an end to this situation, withdraw the driving licence for repeat offenders who violate the law with impunity and condemn them to heavy fines! Good driving courses won't do anything about it. The harsh sanctions will emerge as an example of punishment, inviting the culprits not to fall apart in their abuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u266	Mr Robin Reda has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u267	I will try to defend this amendment with a more unifying speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u268	Softer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u269	That's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u270	From the moment the penalties are increased to punish an offence, it is obvious that there must be associated penalties in case of recidivism. In all the territories facing not only wild rodeos, but also other disturbances of public order, the rate of recidivism is indicative of the feeling of impunity: a number of crimes are not sufficiently punished by the public authorities. If we want to send a strong message to public opinion and potential offenders, not only must the penalties be heavy in the first commission of the offence, but also the criminal sanction should be further strengthened in case of recidivism. That is what this amendment provides for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u271	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u272	The bill already provides for quite severe penalties. However, the rule of recidivism applies to legal arguments in criminal law: the penalties will therefore naturally be doubled. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u274	Amendment No 4 aims to increase the penalties, in the event of legal recidivism, to six years' imprisonment and 90000 euros of fine, and to make it compulsory to cancel the driving licence if the recidivism is carried out within five years of the final conviction. On the merits, this provision is unnecessary because legal recidivism is a general aggravating circumstance provided for in Article 132-10 of the Criminal Code – and not in Article 132-16-7 as mentioned in the amendment – which does not need to be provided for in each criminalising text since it applies to all offences. Moreover, under the same article, legal recidivism always involves the commission of a new offence within five years of the expiry or limitation of the previous sentence. The compulsory cancellation of the driving licence in the event of a legal recidivism is contrary to the constitutional principle of individualisation of the sentence, provided that the judge cannot derogate from it by means of a decision which is specifically justified or modulates the duration of the sentence. Consequently, the Government is opposed to Amendment No. 4 and to Amendment No. 26 by Mr Reda, which is partly identical to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u275	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u276	I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u277	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 27. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u278	This amendment is intended to delete the second sentence of paragraph 15. Indeed, I do not understand why it is left to the courts not to impose the main sentence in the case of a supplementary sentence. On the contrary, it is necessary to systematize the confiscation of the vehicle, especially since the text has been improved in committee thanks to an amendment providing for the case of owners in good faith. The second sentence of paragraph 15 is superfate and does not correspond to the philosophy of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u279	I call Mr Robin Reda to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u280	In the same spirit, it seems to us that confiscation must be really compulsory and that a bad signal would be sent to the security forces if, with the additional provision allowing a court to obstruct it, they were not given full freedom to act on the ground when intercepting devices used for motorized rodeos. I take the opportunity to raise information from the ground: some police officers point out that if confiscation becomes mandatory, these vehicles will have to be stored. We must therefore also consider a mechanism for the sale or destruction of the vehicles used to commit the crime, for the perfect management of the space of our police stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u281	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u282	Rest assured that we intend to make confiscation compulsory and that the reference to "specially motivated decision" has no other purpose than to guarantee the constitutional admissibility of the article. I therefore ask for these amendments to be withdrawn, failing which I will deliver an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u284	Here we come back to a principle I have already mentioned a few moments ago: the constitutional principle of individualization of sentences, under which the Constitutional Council affirms that automatic penalties cannot be imposed, i.e. penalties which cannot be ruled out by a judge or, at least, which cannot be modulated by him in the light of, inter alia, the seriousness of the facts and the personality of the perpetrator. I therefore ask that these amendments be withdrawn, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u285	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u286	I would remind you that we are going to discuss an amendment to the Constitution and that it might be interesting to use it – but let us close this parenthesis. The clarification: "subject to the rights of the owner in good faith, if she has the free disposition of it", which proceeds from the addition made in committee, seems interesting to me and responds to the constitutional difficulty that has just been raised. Moreover, leaving the possibility of not applying this penalty will not help to reinforce the action of our law enforcement agencies – police officers and gendarmes – who are confronted with these problems on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u287	On the single article, I have a request from the Group of the Republicans for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u288	This is an amendment that I particularly care about, and I think you will love it very much. In paragraph 21, the text provides, as an additional penalty, for a convicted person to perform a road safety awareness course at his or her own expense. The amendment is intended to supplement this paragraph with the words: "or work of general interest at Raymond-Poincaré Hospital in Garches. » Wild rodeos are a real danger to residents. Those who practice them must be fully aware of this. The awareness courses advocated here are sometimes a joke of bad taste against the victims of these rodeos. A visit to the hospital of the major road accidents would be the best awareness. She would face the culprit's responsibilities and confront the wrongdoers with their abuses, rather than passively involve them in an internship that, as we have already seen, they could attend without paying much attention to it. Let us stop giving signs of weakness to irresponsible drivers, to whom a superficial or even derisory sanction is imposed here. This internship at Garches Hospital would be the best possible answer and pedagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u290	Mrs Ménard, we have already had this debate in committee with Mrs Lorho. Paragraph 15 already provides for the imposition of a supplementary penalty consisting of work of general interest and it is not possible to specify further. The penalty for work of general interest is already provided for in this text. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u292	Madam Member, in addition to what the rapporteur has just said, you know very well that it is not for the legislator to lay down the precise content and conditions under which the work of general interest will be carried out: it is the role of justice. There is a separation of powers, and so it is up to the sentencing judge. The work of general interest must, of course, be intelligently chosen. In substance, I agree with your idea of taking young offenders – because they are often young offenders who make these rodeos, and they can in any case be described as offenders because of the danger they represent – to Raymond Poincaré Hospital in Garches, because that would make them aware of many things, but I cannot accept your amendment, because such a decision is a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u293	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u294	Madame Ménard, how will Polynesian delinquents go to Raymond-Poincaré Hospital in Garches? Beyond this point, we must be careful not to substitute for the judge. On the substance, of course, the work of general interest which can be carried out in the form of awareness-raising courses in hospitals is, as you have said, very pedagogic and we support this approach, but for everyone its role: as with other amendments, it is for the judge to determine aggravating facts and, depending in particular on the place where these rodeos took place, to lay down penalties of varying degrees of severity. Let us also take into account the fact that this text will apply to the whole territory – not only in the hexagonal territory, but also overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u295	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u296	This provision goes a little beyond the role of the law. Why force all those concerned to come to the Paris region to go to the hospital in Garches, when there are rehabilitation centres for serious road accidents in all regions? We could list it by region, but unfortunately – or rather fortunately – this is not the role of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u297	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u298	Forgive me for not thinking about Polynesia. I imagine there are also accident centres elsewhere. To return to Amendment No 17, these rodeos often concern young people who, under the influence of alcohol or narcotics, gather in a band somewhere in the city to carry out acrobatics of any kind with their motorcycle or car, such as rear wheels or slippages. These agitations disrupt the daily lives of the residents and make them a real hell. Unfortunately, the brouhaha, sometimes deafening, is not the only problem, because the issue of road safety arises here with seriousness. In fact, in addition to putting their lives in danger stupidly, these young acrobats once again pose a great danger to passers-by. Last April, eleven mayors of western communes – from Brest to Roche-sur-Yon and Le Mans, through Rennes and Nantes – denounced not only the dangerous but also particularly exasperating behaviors that give rise to these improvised circuses. In Bagneux, on March 15, a riparian at the end of his nerves pulled his rifle and injured a teenager who was doing scooter acrobatics. We can no longer ignore the exasperation of the French. The amendment therefore seeks to ensure that, in the event of a cumulation of three offences set out in this article, the perpetrator incurs seven years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 100,000.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u300	Mrs Ménard, the text provides that in case of aggravating circumstances, the maximum penalty shall be five years in prison and 75,000 euros in fine. You propose to extend this term of imprisonment to seven years. Without minimizing the importance of urban rodeos, it seems disproportionate to punish them more harshly than manslaughter, for which the penalty may be increased to five years, in accordance with article 221-6-1 of the Criminal Code. In order to maintain consistency at the level of the penalties, the Commission gave an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u302	Same arguments and same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u303	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u304	Apart from the fact that participation in a wild rodeo could lead to involuntary manslaughter, the amendment envisages the cumulation of three conditions – which would thus demonstrate a will. One speaker explained earlier that some of the authors of these rodeos were driving their vehicles, scooters or quads "unconsciously" or "unconsciously" but when there are three conditions, one can no longer speak of "unconscious" driving – or in another sense. That is why this amendment tends to aggravate sanctions in the event of a combination of the three conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u305	I put to the vote the single article, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u306	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, LR and NG]] I note that the single article was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u307	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, who supports Amendment No 13, which adds an additional Rule after the single Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u308	Why would we stop on the land, when we could go to the seas for the same type of motorized crime? With this amendment, we therefore propose to transpose the measures to combat motorised rodeos to the same types of problematic behaviour observed at sea or near the coast, particularly when using yachts, jet-skis or outboards, but by removing the prison sentences – I will not go back to the discussion we had earlier – which are replaced by suspensions with the obligation to carry out work of general interest. In fact, the use of this type of vessel, whether for the circulation or the organisation of events, is too often diverted into practices not only dangerous for the safety of other users of the sea, but also and above all detrimental to the tranquillity of these and the residents. Many municipalities have already tried to combat the dangers and nuisances to the environment, the residents and other users of the sea caused by outboards and jet-skis, as well as by yachts, which are also illegally used by "orchidoclasts" who consider themselves outside the laws of the Republic. The current law is therefore unsatisfactory in order to combat these incivilities which can seriously affect the health and safety of people. To be precise, we keep the sound thresholds of 40 decibels per night and 50 decibels per day, which are the ones adopted by the World Health Organization – WHO – in terms of noise pollution. To this end, we propose to resume the sanctions panel of the single article, so that there is no unequal treatment of motorized incivilities committed on the road and at sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u309	What about in the air?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u311	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. We have already talked about this in committee, Mr Bernalicis. I can hear where you want to go, but I will not go with you to the sea: I prefer to stay within the framework of the road code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u313	Disadvantaged, as such conduct may be dealt with by the general offence of endangering others, provided for in article 223-1 of the Criminal Code. Furthermore, the proposed provisions contain legal inconsistencies. On the one hand, they repeat the repression of behaviour consisting of repeated acceleration, a provision which we have already said is unfavourable. On the other hand, as has been said with regard to Amendment No 11, the penalty of imprisonment is the penalty of reference, in principle, in criminal matters. It is therefore legally inappropriate to provide for a community service sentence instead of imprisonment as a reference penalty. Such provisions have no place in the environmental code, in a chapter on noise control, because they also aim to suppress behaviour which also compromises the safety of users of the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u314	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u315	I am quite in agreement with Mr Bernalicis' amendment for jet skis, outboards and this type of small boats, but it seems to me complicated for a yacht to create nuisances on the coast. On the other hand, if I agree with your answer, Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the water police, within 300 metres of the coast, are often under the responsibility of the gendarmerie. However, many coastal gendarmerie are not equipped with small zodiacs or other boats allowing them to ensure tranquility on the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u316	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u317	Your argument is still amusing, Madam Minister: you are opposed to my amendment proposing an additional article on the grounds that there are already provisions in the Penal Code to prosecute someone for endangering the lives of others; And that applies to rodeos on earth! It's a pity you're arguing against your own text – but that's another story. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, with regard to work of general interest as the main penalty, we agree that this is a legal inconsistency as it stands in our texts. It is therefore on a voluntary basis that we have misdrafted this amendment. Yes! That's because there's a debate about probation as an autonomous sentence. I therefore hear your argument well, but that is the subject, the heart of the matter, the debate I want to have!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u318	We don't want to crash the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u319	If this allows me to specify "by the sea" rather than "by the land", I would have chosen a slightly more pleasant way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u320	What about in the air?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u321	It is a pity that behaviour at sea identical to that observed on land is not penalized in the same way. If you wanted to, you could have proposed an alternative wording, but I note that unfortunately this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u322	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 10 and 20. Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor in support of Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u323	Since this amendment is the same as that tabled by Mrs Sage, who is on the initiative, I give her the floor to defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u324	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u325	As I indicated in the general discussion, Polynesia wanted to use this text to approve prison sentences that are proposed under the country laws under the French Polynesia Highway Code. In addition, this amendment provides for the extension of this bill in the three territories of Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna and New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u326	The opinion of the committee is therefore in favour, Madam rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u327	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u329	The opinion is naturally in favour. In her opening remarks, the honourable Member had clearly explained the value of this text for its transposition in the context of French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u330	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u331	The lack of registration of certain cars and two-wheelers, especially those used for these wild rodeos, is a real wound for the police who are trying to fight against those who believe that driving 120 kilometres an hour in the city is a game. Without registration, it is very complicated to find the owner of the vehicle, especially since, most of the time, the driver escapes at the detour of an unbridled chase. But because it is indeed a real scourge attracting more and more young people in search of adrenaline and endangering their lives like that of the police officers who pursue them, it is necessary to be intractable and to use all possible means to deter them from engaging in these wild rodeos. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] To this end, I propose to increase the powers of the mayors and the territorially competent police officers so that, even without the approval of the owner of the vehicle, they may be able to immobilize, impound, withdraw from traffic and, where appropriate, dispose of or deliver to destruction the unregistered motor vehicles used in these demonstrations. By force, this can only be very dissuasive and therefore very effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u333	Your amendment already seems to me to be satisfied with the rule of law, as Article R. 317-8 of the Road Traffic Code already provides for these provisions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u334	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u335	I ask for withdrawal, since this is already provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u336	Mrs Ménard, do you withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u337	No, I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u338	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u339	This amendment was inspired by the police commissioner of my constituency, who faces numerous rodeos every summer. According to him, regardless of the sanctions, the difficulty for law enforcement officers is to be able to arrest young people who do not stop at the first whistle. This means being able to prosecute on the streets, thus endangering third parties and even the lives of these young rodeo writers, who also deserve their lives to be preserved. For these reasons, he suggests that we apply what already exists for certain offences, namely video-verbalization. This would help to avoid these chase races and, in the long run, to question the facts of young or old people who would engage in these rodeos. To give you time to reflect on this issue, it is not a question of imposing this on you right now, but of producing a report within six months in order to think about it together. This seems to me to be a solution that should suit everyone, inspired by common sense and practice. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will pay real attention to it and that you will not reject it with a back of your hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u340	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u341	Our goal is to achieve it as quickly as possible and to be effective on the ground, not to report. The implementation of the text will allow us to verify very quickly the cumulative and dissuasive effect of this text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u343	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u344	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u345	I find this proposal quite interesting, because it is in the direction of greater firmness towards these individuals and greater security for our security forces. As Mr Faure said very well, flagrance is very difficult to establish; Moreover, for security reasons, it is not possible to organize chase races in the neighbourhoods. Filming these individuals, identifying them physically or by their license plates would be a very interesting process to be able to sanction them a posteriori. This request for a report seems to me to be in the right direction; As far as I am concerned, I will strongly support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u346	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u347	I will not add much, because everyone has understood what this is about. Many people in this House have already lived live with rodeos, the vehicle in question in front of them, the police's mopeds trying to catch him up behind them. All this creates a tumult in the commune, a rather uninteresting spectacle, which stimulates the most stupid. It is therefore better to avoid this spectacle, to avoid endangering the lives of police officers and young people who engage in these rodeos, in a form of provocation that everyone understands well, and even to avoid setting the example of a modern version of the cat and mouse, or of the gendarmes and thieves. It is possible to video-verbalize for certain offences, such as the lack of wearing of the helmet: to go towards this solution therefore seems to me to be common sense. It's not about making a decision now: work together. This report would allow, within six months, the right questions to be asked and then come back to this subject. This would in no way delay the implementation of the proposed law as drafted; This is just a bonus and I do not see why it could be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u348	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u349	I'm not sure that the video-verbalization is the panacea: you'd have to put cameras all over the place to be able to video-verbalize. However, the lifespan of the cameras in question would, in my opinion, be quite low and would cost us a "crazy money" to use a now widespread expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u350	It works very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u351	In the North, it is planned to experiment with drones, not to run a race-prosecution with people who do rodeos but to take up height: this would allow to follow the routes, to see the point of arrival of the individuals in question, to call them once they are on foot and above all to seize the vehicles. Indeed, with the video-verbalization, you can't do it, because you don't know where the vehicle is; And that's what works. I am rather in favour of following up on the experiment that will take place in the North and perhaps in other departments, to see if it works, rather than video-verbalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u352	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u353	I listened very carefully to the reply of the rapporteur and the minister, which is based on the concern for the effectiveness, responsiveness and rapid application of this text. I do not see how this amendment undermines the search for efficiency that you have set out. I would like to draw your attention to one point: this amendment recalls the risk posed by chase races with motorised quad or mini-moto motor vehicles. In the event of an accident on a mini-moto at high speed and without a helmet, this does not forgive. The aim of this amendment is both to increase the effectiveness of the arrest of offenders and to ensure security: it would be sensible to adopt it, especially since it was inspired by the police forces themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u354	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u355	We all agree that we must not go into chase races, because the risk is very great. But this request for a report on a particular mechanism, on a particular solution, does not seem to me to consider all the possibilities, which are already being effectively applied by the law enforcement agencies. I, too, have spoken with the commissioners in my constituency, and I can assure you that they are looking for ways to be effective and to stem this phenomenon. The Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, has even indicated that in the city of Lyon, they use helicopters. Every effort is made to identify offenders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u356	It's always in Lyon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u357	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u358	At the initiative of the Law Commission, we were encouraged to participate in days of immersion in the police force. So I spent an afternoon and a night in the gendarmerie; We did an interpellation within the framework of a motorised rodeo. I assure you that developing this type of device is essential. To apprehend offenders in this situation is very delicate, very complicated, it takes specialized vehicles, motorcycles so that the gendarmes can follow these rodeos; The drone surveillance system is also interesting. However, minister, this amendment is useful. In my view, we need to look at all the alternative solutions that can very concretely support the action of our law enforcement forces. This amendment does not eat bread: it is not intended to impose the video system, but to request a report to determine to what extent this system could be used. Its adoption would be a good thing. In any case, our group will be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u359	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u360	The amendment tabled by Olivier Faure is in line with what has been announced to us. The minister, that is, I repeat, a reflection that will be carried out in her department in order to go much further than this bill – of which we know the legitimate limits – by exploring other provisions that can consolidate an even more pragmatic response to this phenomenon. Not only does this amendment not eat bread, but we are not going to eat the wool on your back, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! (Sighs.) We understand that this bill is yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u361	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] Not at all! It's ours, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u362	Either... In any case, our colleague Olivier Faure wishes only to add a few hairs. (Sighs.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u363	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u364	It's your mustaches that make you say that, Mr. Wulfranc! (Sighs.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u365	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u366	Clearly, the law does not belong to anyone once it has been passed, especially when it has been passed unanimously. You are proposing, Mr Faure, that the Government submit to Parliament, within six months of the enactment of the Act, a report on the desirability of having the automatic control devices provided for in article L. 130-9 of the Road Traffic Code ascertain the offences committed by means of motor vehicles with a playful and sporty purpose not approved. The object is therefore precise. Firstly, the category of non-approved recreational and sporting motor vehicles is not mentioned in this form in the road code. Secondly, in the case of vehicles covered by article L. 321-1-1 of the Road Traffic Code, namely mopeds, motorcycles, motor tricycles and motor quadricycles not subject to approval, i.e. not registered, it is not appropriate to provide for video-verbalization, which is based on the automatic reading of registration plates, since these vehicles may not be carrying such plates in the context of sports practice, as provided for in article L. 321-1-2 of the Road Traffic Code. Therefore, the Government does not believe that such a report is useful. It is therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u367	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u368	It is simply a request for a report, in which we could also introduce the idea of drones – I see no drawback. Today there are cameras, and the police tell us that they see, on the videos, who are the violators. In reality, they know them, but they are powerless: they cannot stop them, because they cannot take them in flagrante delicto. This is the scandal: we know very well who are the people who drive, we know very well where to find them, but we cannot question them when they circulate, because they do not stop at the first whistle. That is why I would have liked to have been able to discuss this issue and extend the debate after the law was passed, in order to identify all the means available to put an end to this scourge, which affects many French citizens and is of great concern to our citizens, especially in the summer. Clearly, we are all ready, regardless of our parliamentary groups, to think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u369	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and Les Républicaines groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u370	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u371	It is intended to supplement the title of the bill with the words "and their noise nuisances". The title would become as follows: "Proposal for a law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos and their noise nuisances". Motorised rodeos cannot be combated without combating the noise pollution they produce. These inconveniences are the main concern of the residents. It would be insulting to them to neglect the brouhaha caused by the followers of these rodeos. Refusing this common-sense amendment would also be tantamount to insulting the prerogatives of the police authorities, since they would be given, with this argument, an additional ground for verbalization. There is no doubt that we will be able to make the interests of those residents harassed by an oppressive raffut take precedence. There is no doubt that we will not despise the legitimate complaints of the French against these perpetual noise nuisances. There is no doubt that we will be intractable with regard to these noise attacks, a clear sign of a certain enslavement of our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u373	Urban rodeos are responsible for many nuisances, including noise. I do not see the point of adding this mention at the level of the title. What is important is the establishment of an effective system of control, which we are working on. The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u374	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u375	Sound nuisances are an important subject in themselves, but I find that your proposal, Ms. Ménard, would weaken the title of the law, the purpose of which is really to ensure the safety of people. "Strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos" seems to me stronger. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u376	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u377	In view of the result of the vote on the single article, I will probably be the only one to abstain, on behalf of my parliamentary group, on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u378	What angelism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u379	I have no difficulty, I repeat, with the beginning of the article, which creates a particular crime and criminal characterization; That goes in the right direction. However, I do not think it is desirable to tighten the sanctions by providing for prison sentences...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u380	What a laxity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u381	It's essential, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u382	You have to be a deterrent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u383	... in view of the objectives we wish to achieve. I wanted to make it clear so that there was no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u384	The next speaker is Mr Robin Reda, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u385	Of course, our position on this text did not change during its consideration. On the contrary, our common conviction is that there is a need to improve the fight against the phenomenon of motorized wild rodeos. It is now necessary to put in place the means as soon as possible, perhaps even before the final vote of the law, so that we will soon have a return to experience and the feeling of impunity will cease. At a time when the Government is demanding efforts from some French by limiting the maximum speed on the roads, how can we tolerate such serious behaviour, which is displayed in front of the inhabitants and under their windows, not being punished or, at least, not giving the feeling of being punished? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, we hope that this text will be voted unanimously – I understand that it will – and that it will be adopted very soon by our honourable senators. I note in passing that the Senate does not have a monopoly on compromise – perhaps the Minister of State and the Minister have imported his methods here, based on their knowledge of the institution. I hope, of course, that the parliamentary shuttle will be quick and that we can implement this law on the ground as quickly as possible, with the forces of law and order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u386	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u387	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is obviously very pleased with this debate and this bill, which is useful and necessary. We were pleased to hear from the minister and the rapporteur, both in committee and in open session. The amendments that have been adopted have, in my view, improved the text. We have been attentive to the answers that have been given on the prevention side, on which we will have to work – that is what I want – with the local elected representatives, in order to provide solutions for these young people or associations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Finally, we will pay attention to the follow-up to this bill. As Mr Reda has just said, we must now move quickly. We hope that the Senate will adopt the text in a consistent manner and that implementing orders will be issued quickly, as law enforcement and elected officials are looking forward to these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u388	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u389	Mrs Maina Sage, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u390	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the same way, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will support this text. We, too, will be vigilant about the means that will be given to law enforcement agencies to implement this text effectively. I would also like to point out that the prevention component – which is probably what was missing in this bill – needs to be consolidated and that my colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and I will be submitting proposals to strengthen the accompanying tools. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister and the rapporteur for having agreed to extend the provisions of this text to all communities in the Pacific and to approve the sentences set out in local Polynesian legislation, in accordance with the requests of the Polynesian government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u391	Mrs Mireille Clapot, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u392	On behalf of the La République group on the move, I thank everyone for the level of the debates. We found that these nuisances were exaggerating and endangering passers-by. I remind you of the figures, because they are speaking: 8700 rodeos in the police zone and 6600 in the gendarmerie zone in 2017. Whether we are recent or older Members of Parliament, whether we have a local mandate or simply listen to the actors on the ground, we have all seen in our constituencies the need to act and legislate. The joint work with the specialists of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice, which I thank again, and with the actors on the ground has borne fruit. So here's a well-written, well-thought-out bill, so that it can be dissuasive and effective,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u393	It's the future that will tell!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u394	... retouched by amendment when it was useful, and whose single article was voted unanimously. [[Smile]] To use the terms used by several colleagues, it will first be necessary for the Senate to quickly vote on the text, of course. It should also be accompanied by an appropriate method of communication to the populations concerned, including troublemakers, who do not necessarily read the proceedings of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u395	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u396	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For our part, we will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u397	The next speaker is Mr Hervé Saulignac, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u398	We must not despair: troublemakers may follow our debates, even if I doubt them a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u399	We invite them to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u400	The New Left Group will obviously vote for this text. You have noticed that we have not multiplied the amendments; We had made another choice: to work seriously on an amendment that we felt was relevant and effective. We were almost convinced that you would give a favourable opinion, but I note that our approach, however constructive it may be, is sometimes not paid back, and I regret it. However, I hope that this legal arsenal will produce its effects quickly. If this were not the case, it would be a serious failure. For those who are victims of these motorized rodeos, nothing would be worse than to find that the nuisances persist after the intervention of the legislator and that nothing has been resolved. The New Left Group naturally hopes that the effects of this text can be felt quickly. For this, I repeat, we must also hear the law enforcement agencies of our country. For some of their members, burn out is not just a threat. Sometimes they are breathless, exhausted and sometimes overwhelmed by the situation and the number of crimes they have to deal with. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] We must therefore continue the debate on the means allocated to the police and the gendarmerie, and more broadly on the work we must do in certain neighbourhoods – I do not stigmatise any – which are more particularly affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u401	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u402	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u403	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for this serious text, which has given rise to a serious debate. However, we highlight the possible problems that will arise from its implementation. I have also noticed some populist trembling, which will have to continue to be kept when we discuss this kind of subject again. The Government is expected at the turn, if I may say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u404	That's a thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u405	...on the implementation of the text, which will obviously be voted on. As the subject of a bill is still limited, we are still waiting for a larger bill anyway. It is about public safety, the quality of life in our cities, our villages and our rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u406	Blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u407	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This concern was reflected in Jean-Louis Borloo's report. It must be remembered and the problem of prevention and security must be raised. We therefore expect you more broadly, Madam Minister, on the question of the serenity accorded to people in working-class neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u408	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u409	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u410	I note that the bill is adopted unanimously. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand what you said to me, but first of all thank you! Thank you all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the LR group]] This law, as you recalled, was demanded by everyone. It will not give rise to any implementing decree, since it is directly applicable. If, on 24 July, it is adopted in conformity, it will apply on 25 July. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] That is why I appeal to members of all groups: tell your comrades, your companions, your friends in the Senate that a fair vote is really desirable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-04-E1003.u412	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion, in further reading, of the bill ratifying the order concerning payment services in the internal market; Discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other; Discussion of the draft law authorizing accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, adopted in New York on 31 May 2001; Discussion, in further reading, of the draft law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. The meeting is adjourned.
