ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019 (No. 1297, 1336, 1309).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u2	At the request of the Government and pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will consider tomorrow evening, at 21:30, article 8 of the draft law on the competitiveness and employment tax credit and the wage tax credit, as well as amendments to the additional article after Article 8. This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. We're pursuing her with Mrs. Jeanine Dubie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u3	Madam President, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, today opens the discussion of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019. Following the announcements made by the President of the Republic in the framework of the plan to combat poverty and the plan "my health 2022", this PLFSS was very much expected, by health professionals, health and medical-social institutions and their staff, health associations and, of course, our fellow citizens. It was supposed to be a budgetary expression of the ambitions displayed: it is clear that we are far from the point of view. It is organized in four main parts: to continue the path of social account recovery, to support economic activity and to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises by reducing social contributions, to protect the most vulnerable, to invest in the transformation of our health system. While we can agree on the need for a return to the balance of social accounts, we see that this is done at the cost of considerable efforts imposed on health actors, with drastic measures, which are often detrimental to the quality of care and which do not meet the objective of greater social justice. Once again, it is the middle classes and pensioners who will pay for it and, more broadly, the families. Indeed, the family branch becomes the adjustment variable offsetting the increase in health insurance spending – which will reach 6.8% between 2018 and 2021 – as in old age insurance. At the same time, expenditure on the family sector will increase by only 1.8%. This is not acceptable! Disengagement from family policy results in a transfer of income from the wage tax to the sickness and old age branches as early as 2019. Moreover, the decrease in revenue from the decline in corporate social contributions for the family sector will no longer be fully offset by the State, contrary to the commitments made. All these measures will have a negative effect on family policy, as we see a decline in fertility rates, a fall in the use of parental leave and a lack of early childhood care. Investing in family policy is investing in the future, and we regret that as other European countries develop their public policies for the family, we are abandoning this orientation, while France retains the largest birth rate in Europe. As regards support for economic activity, this provision provides for the exemption from overtime contributions, which will result in an annual gain of EUR 300, thereby improving the purchasing power of the employee. It is also planned to replace the CICE and the CITS with an increased exemption from social contributions. On the other hand, the abolition of the scheme for casual workers and job seekers, TODE, which is widely used in the agricultural sector for seasonal employment, is a direction which we do not share and which, if applied, would be a severe and even unbearable blow to the agricultural sector. When examining the text in the Committee on Social Affairs, you asked us to withdraw our deletion amendments, because a proposal had to be made before the reading in the sitting. We will remain very attentive to the evolution of the TODE system, and we await the Government's proposal. This PLFSS also makes some progress that was expected to protect the most vulnerable. It thus has advantages for some of our fellow citizens, such as the extension of maternity leave for self-employed women and women farmers. This will ensure that the rules on maternity leave are uniform. It also makes it possible to simplify and strengthen access to care for the most modest people, since it provides for a merger between support for complementary health care, GBA and complementary universal health care, the CMU-C. Similarly, dental, optical and audiology care will be more accessible to all French people, with 100% coverage of this type of care. However, we will remain vigilant about these measures. Indeed, with this 100% health basket, the mutual contribution of each insured person will increase, especially for pensioners, who will be subject to an increase of at least 5% in their annual contribution, to the detriment, once again, of their purchasing power. Is it worth recalling that last January, the 1.7-point increase in the rate of the generalised social contribution on retirement pensions above EUR 1200 was a hard blow for pensioners, resulting in a substantial decrease in the amount of pensions for 60 % of them? You didn't hear us last year when we asked for an increase in the threshold. You are now proposing a measure to this effect, but its scope is insufficient. Some households certainly benefit from favourable measures, such as the exemption from the housing tax or the upgrading of the solidarity allowance for the elderly. But in parallel, they suffer a decline in their purchasing power. Bad surprises will follow, such as the low pension recovery in 2019 and 2020 – 0.3% per year, which is much less than inflation, the low level of housing subsidies and the increase in the CSG, which started in 2018. While in 2018 almost six out of ten households with at least one pensioner lose their purchasing power due to reforms, this ratio is expected to rise to more than seven out of ten in 2019. As a result of the under-indexing of retirement pensions, which is offset by inflation, the overall impact of the proposed measures will be negative on the disposable income of pensioners, despite the cancellation of the increase in the CSG for 300,000 of them. This low improvement also concerns all social benefits, including family allowances, and will therefore have an impact on the purchasing power of the most vulnerable households. The transformation of our health system presented in the "My Health 2022" plan is difficult to translate into action. While we welcome the rise in the rate of ONDAM to 2.5%, the highest rate in five years, it does not seem to us to be sufficient to deal with the worrying financial situation of public hospitals, whose debt is close to EUR 30 billion and the operating deficit is reaching a record level of almost 1.4 billion, observing any investment capacity that would make them more efficient. In terms of remuneration, we note with satisfaction the development of flat-rate funding for the management of certain chronic diseases, but we regret that it is applicable only in hospitals and does not concern city medicine. Our concern also concerns home care providers, who are asking you to save 150 million euros, or 50% more. At a time when you are advocating, Madam Minister, the development of outpatient medicine and the improvement of the link between city medicine and the hospital, it seems rather inconsistent. The medicine remains the main driver of savings in the health insurance budget, amounting to EUR 1 billion. This will lead to significant difficulties for the whole sector, in particular the distribution wholesalers, who, forced to reduce their deliveries, will put the officiaries of the rural and mountain territories in serious difficulties. The territorial grid will be permanently affected, and we fear that this will result in the closure of pharmacies in territories already affected by medical desertification. In this regard, we regret that the measures necessary to combat medical desertification are not up to the level, so that this phenomenon will worsen over the next ten years. We also want to express our strong opposition to the creation of the reorientation package at the health facility, when emergency services redirect a patient to city medicine. Although 60% of patients in emergency care may be covered by city medicine, it is necessary, before any decision is made, to ensure that proper management in the city is possible, which is far from the case today. Moreover, it seems strange to pay the hospital to send a patient back to a general practitioner, who will receive the same rate of consultation, while the reorientation package perceived by the hospital will be double or triple. There is concern that many medical liability issues may arise for patients who have been wrongly dismissed due to poor diagnosis of their symptoms. In the end, even though it presents some progress, the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019 is not up to the ambitions expressed. It relies more on the policy of the plan rather than on the desire to improve our health care system in practice. [[Applause on LT benches]] We will remain very attentive and vigilant with regard to the development of this text, which, as it stands, does not receive our consent. We would have liked it to be more balanced and fairer in the field of social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u4	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, Mr Olivier, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on a budget text is above all the search for a balance. A balance between the figures, of course, but also a political balance. The way in which we want to build our future is reflected in the budgetary guidelines. The draft law on the financing of social security is particularly relevant to the solidarity and health of our citizens. A primordial, good health allows us to integrate into society and to be self-sufficient in the face of life's contingencies. And, because everyone does not have this chance, our national solidarity must bring to all the ability to live with dignity. Because poor health is always suffered, it is fraternity that contributes to redressing this de facto inequality. Freedom and equality strike a balance in this PLFSS to give all the tools to write their future and access to the 21st century welfare state. The primary goal of this PLFSS is to achieve a healthy environment at different ages of life, by improving access to care. Since the beginning of this Parliament, we have given an entire place to our most fragile elders. Because solidarity is above all intergenerational, it is our responsibility to help the weakest elderly. A solidarity measure, the upgrading of the minimum old age, had been voted in the LFSS for 2018 and is already effective since 1 April last; He'll be up again next January. Integrate our elders is to give them the best possible reception in case of addiction. The road map on age and autonomy, presented by the Government on 30 May, is already being applied in practice in this PLFSS. A major effort is made, over a period of three years, to accompany, the presence of nurses at night and temporary accommodation in EHPADs. This PLFSS also helps young people through the deployment of a structured family policy, from birth to majority. It is the intimacy that allows everyone to acquire the education, autonomy and socialization necessary to write their future. That is why joint efforts must be made from birth, by helping mothers and fathers, in the family diversity we know, to take full part in the development of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u6	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u7	An extension of full-rate care, from the start of school, in line with the progress of compulsory education, will enable each parent to ensure the proper education of his or her child. A family policy is to help parents from birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u8	Before birth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u9	In the diversity of occupations, women are not equally protected when a child arrives in the world. Thus, with a view to protecting families, this PLFSS provides for a minimum period of rest in the event of pregnancy to be increased to eight weeks for all women. In addition, and I would like to thank our colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain for his work, the duration of the maternity leave of the self-employed will be increased to 112 days, as will the length of the leave of the employees, i.e. 38 more days reimbursed by social security. Furthermore, because the La République en Marche group is committed to extending the rights of the family, we collectively defend, in the interests of equality between women and men, the need to start thinking about extending paternity leave in case of premature birth, requiring intensive care. Because a child born prematurely requires special attention, the presence of fathers and mothers during hospitalization is a measure of social justice that our society cannot ignore. Dependence, old age, youth and disability. Priority of the quinquennium, the subject of disability must bring us together towards a common project of inclusion, with the aim of giving everyone the means to fully realize themselves. In the area of autism, and here I welcome the work of our colleague Adrien Taquet, following broad consultation with public, private and civil society actors, the need to act as quickly as possible to provide children with autism with a framework for their development. A supervision during the first six years of the child, in a coherent care path and integrating the parents, will allow them to be surrounded by health professionals in order to obtain the care adapted to the particularities that characterize them. The second PLFSS of this quinquennium also marks a turning point in taking prevention and redistribution into account. The challenge of these policies is first of all to adapt to changes in society in the face of addictions that have led to the decision to transform the tobacco fund into a global fund to combat addictions to psychoactive substances. We need to take better account of changing practices, including the development of poly-addictions and behaviours among young people. Information, communication and early intervention must become the key to educating people about the risks of such practices. It is also in this sense that the emphasis will be on young people in terms of prevention. A redeployment of compulsory examinations, now carried out before the age of six, will be carried out up to the age of majority, in order to ensure regular follow-up for everyone in the ages when good and bad practices have an effect on the rest of life. Prevention is also a matter of national solidarity. The philosophy of vaccination – protecting oneself to protect others – must be provided with a framework that provides maximum coverage in order to protect those most likely to be affected. To allow pharmacists to vaccinate against influenza is to extend access to vaccination, it is to provide the most vulnerable people with wider vaccination coverage in the territory for more protection. Preventing and redispensing means providing everyone with access to the necessary equipment to listen, see, smile. The "100% health" offers, in the areas of audiology, optics and dentistry, an offer fully supported by social security. A special effort must be made to ensure that everyone has access to them without conditions of income. If France remains a leader in the OECD, let us give the example that unremitting access to care is possible and sustainable, in connection with the responsibility of private actors for the quality of the basket of care offered. Let us also increase our efforts towards those who need it most, by providing easier access to health. The merger of the CMU-C and the ACS allows for an expansion of the coverage of the CMU-C, with tariff escalation ranging from free payment to the payment of a supplementary mutual to one euro per day. Simpler, more protective, this measure will compensate for non-use of care such as non-use of rights. The vote on the social security budget is, a few months, even a few weeks, after the announcement of the plan "my Health 2022", a concrete application of the first measures announced in the reform of the health system. As of 2019, an ONDAM adjusted to 2.5%, equivalent to an additional 400 million euros, marks the desire to strengthen the investment effort in health. This ONDAM, the highest in six years, will better structure community care, including funding medical assistants or structuring community hospitals. It will also allow investments in digital and real estate for health institutions, the creation of hospital packages for diabetes and chronic renal failure, the end of all funding for activity and the experimentation of new ways of organizing. This PLFSS is also characterised by the choice of work. It is the marker of the vitality of an economy. We want to give it its full meaning by offering workers the fruits of their activity. They will see it at the end of the month thanks to the budget voted last year. Desocialization of overtime will provide them with effective purchasing power in 2019 while valuing work. Companies are part of a nation's wealth to produce, create and respond to material needs. In a context of globalisation, where competition no longer stops at our borders, we must find that balance in the protection of workers and businesses. We switch the CICE and CITS to a long-term relief of expenses and a white year of contributions to support business start-ups. On this point, national representation is committed to ensuring that no one, despite the complexity and diversity of situations, suffers too strongly that direction, which is necessary for the revitalization of our economy. Because it would be contrary to the logic of this PLFSS not to ensure that our territories and their wealth are taken into account, the Members of the majority are in favour of compensation of the TODE scheme, from 1.10 to 1.15 SMIC, for our farms. The social security accounts will have an overall surplus this year. Some argue the need to cover other risks or slow down debt repayment by taking advantage of negative borrowing rates. It is at the same time to forget the abyss of social debt, which is still equivalent to the totality of our annual GDP, and the will of this majority to offer all French people greater protection in the face of accidents of life. This PLFSS has chosen a balance that supports the investment while protecting our ability to defend the model we have chosen. Let us not deprive ourselves of room for manoeuvre for the future, let us keep this freedom of action, this freedom of choice to ensure the sustainability of our social model. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This PLFSS makes the choice of protecting the weakest, of a renewed and fair social model, oriented towards future investments and the development of digital technology. It is part of a sustainable transformation towards greater equality and freedom in the social and economic fields.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u10	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this second five-year social budget was to reveal to us the priorities of the Government. He had to put into practice the various plans and programmes which it was regrettable that they had been presented exclusively to the media rather than to Parliament, perhaps the rather technocratic aspect of which was to be mitigated. This is the case with the 100% health plan and the restructuring of the supplementary health support schemes. This is the "My Health 2022" plan, which, Minister, you bring together the disparate measures under the title of "strengthening the investment effort in health." I am also thinking of the Poverty Plan, the measures of which will really begin to weigh on expenditure from 2020 only. There is thus a hiatus between this bill without any real consistency and what the President of the Republic has described with great solemnity as a strategy to combat poverty. It is, however, a budget higher than the state budget that the 1996 constitutional review, which extended Parliament's rights, allows us to control. Unfortunately this year our work is made more difficult by the delay in the tabling of the bill, perhaps due to the wait for the appointment of a new Government that has not finally taken place. This has forced us to table our amendments within unrealistic deadlines. Last year you had the objective of achieving balance of accounts by 2020 and removing new imbalances, and I told you that of course we can only support this objective. However, divine surprise, it is a surplus of 700 million euros that is triumphantly announced for next year. That's good news, but you are skilfully avoiding, Mr. Secretary of State, suggesting that there would be a pool. Indeed, this term might recall the episode of the discussion of the 2000 budget in which the Jospin government had hidden the existence of a tax revenue in order to better refuse to lower taxes or to raise social minimums. Electing this debate allows you to avoid, for example, that on the decline in the purchasing power of pensioners and the tax burden on them. While the further upgrading of the activity premium, the allowance for adults with disabilities and the solidarity allowance for the elderly is included in 2019, family allowances, personalized housing assistance and retirement pensions are increased at a minimum. Thus, with families, it is the pensioners, whom we are told are wealthy, who are cynically ravaged as adjustment variables. A working document of the Pension Guidance Board, the COR, shows that the loss of purchasing power of pensioners is very real because of the low pension valuation and the increase in social contributions. "We love pensioners, we love all French," said the Minister of Economy, but retirees are aware of being sacrificed to current politics and being used to close the budget. In principle, benefits paid by compulsory social security schemes are revalued on the basis of an inflation-based calculation. But you question this principle. From next January, and in 2020, retirement pensions will be subject to a simple fixed rate of 0.3%, i.e. significantly less than the estimated inflation of 1.6%. Moreover, you have already postponed the revalorisation of the basic pension by three months, from October to January. A quasi-freezing of pensions combined with the 1.7-point increase in the CSG: this penalizes pensioners even more. Many, however, receive only small pensions after a lifetime of work. This increase in the CSG, despite the small gesture of Article 11, remains across the throat and the gap between the executive and the country is widening. They are not fooled and also know that their complementary health will actually increase with the project of remaining at zero charge. Minister, we will see what happens in the medium term. I would like once again to draw your attention to an additional element of injustice against private sector pensioners who receive a supplementary pension. I did not receive a reply in committee at your hearing. This is the introduction, by the Act of 28 December 1979, of a 1% contribution on supplementary pensions for French citizens, at a time when pensions of AGIRC and ARRCO were not yet subject to health insurance contributions. The aim was to remedy the increase in the health insurance deficit. However, for the past forty years, this contribution has continued without any relevance, if not to be an additional recipe. Although this inequality has gone unnoticed, it has worsened since the CSG's retirement pension rate this year was increased to 8.3%. Thus, holders of a supplementary pension from the private sector pay twice a compulsory levy for the same purpose, the financing of health insurance. They pay at 9.3 per cent, more than the assets in proportion to their income, compared to 8.3 per cent for the rest of the retirees. Such injustice is indisputably contrary to the principle of equality of citizens in public office and is likely to be appealed to the Constitutional Council. But let's go back to the big accounting balances. In fact, as the Court of Auditors points out, the fall in the deficit is allowed by the trickle-down of a favourable economic situation, even if it subsequently slowed down. In 2017, the overall deficit of the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund, in line with the revised forecast of the financing law for 2018, amounting to €4.9 billion, is higher than in the financing law for 2017, i.e. €4.1 billion. The Court of Auditors observes that, while the deficit has been reduced, it retains an important structural component, estimated at 3.9 billion, independent of the effects of the good economic situation, with a wage bill increasing by more than 3.5%. For 2019, ONDAM's growth rate is 2.5%, compared to 2.3% in 2018. This increase is to be relativized, given the deficit of 1.7 billion and the debt of 30 billion hospitals. The hospital, whose state of extreme tension you recognize, Minister, is in crisis. I will give only two examples: the oversaturated emergency services – many of the dysfunctions and discontents within these services – psychiatry, a major public health problem. You yourself say that by 2022 more than EUR 3.4 billion would be needed in total, of which almost EUR 1 billion would be for hospital investment. Apart from the hospital, in the expenditure for 2019 of the medical branch, it is necessary to include 4000 medical assistants, whose missions, both nursing and administrative, are relatively vague and whose number is very small compared to all the territories. This project is not only imprecise and insufficient in terms of what has been announced, but it is also quite opaque, not only in terms of the impact of compulsory tax and State transfer measures, but also in terms of the details of the savings. Indeed, the table of the 3.8 billion expected savings was not mysteriously provided when the preliminary draft was presented to the press, an omission that was filled by the economic, social and financial report annexed to the finance bill, which contains many obscurities. Health products will still have to contribute significantly in 2019 to the reduction of expenses reimbursed. In July, however, you made commitments to those in charge of the pharmaceutical industries, to whom you announced that, over the next three years, they could benefit from a minimum growth rate of 0.5%. On the contrary, it is a one-billion-dollar plank in the field of medicine. We already know the consequences: the decline in industrial investment, the stagnation of production, the elimination of jobs, the erosion of France's place in pharmaceutical research, the generalisation of the generic substance – which will have a negative price effect. It is feared that the slightest reimbursement of the princeps medication will lead to conflicting situations between doctors, pharmacists and their patients, without improving the quality of care. And what about your reform of the ATU – the temporary authorisation of use – long awaited but terribly complicated? I conclude by talking about the health actors, but I will mention only a few given the time given to me: the CPTS – the territorial health professional communities – are the alpha and omega of the project, but, Madam Minister, 50 million euros dedicated, it is not really credible when it takes ten times more! The nurses, on the other hand, are the great forgotten ones. Pharmacists are concerned that a new plan to lower drug prices will continue to lead to the disappearance of local officials and disruptions of supply. EUR 150 million of savings are expected from home healthcare providers, which puts at risk employment and investment in an innovative and efficient sector, which is a source of progress for telehealth and an essential element of the outpatient shift. Ultimately, it is the patients who will be sacrificed: the elderly who are losing their autonomy, people with disabilities, people with chronic diseases. We will return to all these issues in the discussion of the articles. Let us simply want the majority to make an effort to demonstrate a greater openness and less sectarianism with regard to our amendments than it has shown by rejecting our bills, such as those relating to orientation for the future of health or the inclusion of students with disabilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are waiting for the debate to guide our final vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u12	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u13	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Chair of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning today to consider this Parliament's second bill to fund social security. Last year, the text we voted for laid the groundwork for the Government's policy of modernizing our health system and consolidating our social model. This year, the aim is to continue the work begun in line with the commitments of the President of the Republic. The general philosophy of the text that we are about to discuss meets this ambition: to reconcile economic efficiency and social justice. Indeed, the PLFSS for 2019 is part of the continuity of the trajectory of public finances presented in the framework of the law on public finance programming adopted last year. The MODEM and related group fully supports the Government's objective of controlling expenditure in order to sustain our social protection system while ensuring the continuity of our country's transformation. The great balances of our social system are now weakened by many changes, but social policy cannot be seen as an adjustment variable because it goes far beyond that: it is the condition of national cohesion and it is this cohesion that we need more than ever! Our group has been working for 18 months to promote this imperative need and will continue to do so with you, minister. With this in mind, we will support this text, while proposing the changes we consider necessary. However, some of the amendments that we would have liked to have discussed in this House cannot be discussed because of the more than drastic application of Articles 40 and 41 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u15	As far as the text is concerned, we can only welcome the return to balance of the accounts of the general social security system for the first time in 18 years. This must certainly satisfy us, but also encourage us to persevere in this direction. The aim is to continue efforts to ensure that these results are time-bound and that the social security debt amortization target is achieved by 2024. As you know, we have always attached paramount importance to the balance of public accounts, and we will continue to work in this direction. This PLFSS is structured around three main themes: economic liberation and support for activity; investment in the transformation of the health system; protection of the most vulnerable. On the first theme, our group is satisfied with the measure to exempt overtime pay from social contributions. It is intended to be consistent with the abolition of the health insurance and unemployment insurance contributions voted last year in successive stages. Still in line with what we decided a year ago, the replacement in 2019 of the CICE and the CITS by an increased exemption from social contributions seems to us quite appropriate to the current situation. However, such a switch cannot be made without anicroches. We were able to see this not only during the debates in committee but also through the upsurges. As such, we will be extremely attentive to the Government's proposals on the TODE mechanism for which a fair and coherent solution should be found. Finally, we appreciate the effort made in Article 11 on modulations subject to the different CSG rates for pensioners, which fluctuate between the normal rate and the reduced rate. Almost 300,000 of them will be directly affected by this measure, it is a very good signal sent by the Government and it is a message that we had already sent last year. The re-engineering of the CSG of replacement revenues occupied most of our discussions last year. Decisions, although difficult, have been taken. It is now a matter of assuming and allowing the expected effects to occur while at the same time giving itself the means to make adjustments. That is exactly what the Government is drawing up with this measure. On the second theme, this text reflects several measures emanating from the strategic plan "My Health 2022" aimed at reshaping our health system, which must evolve in the face of changing paradigms of the economic and health world. Madam Minister, as you know, our group has welcomed the many proposals made in this plan. Thus, the deployment of financing for the package of certain chronic diseases goes towards rational and quality medicine – that is why we welcome its rapid implementation. This must be a first step towards a genuine democratization of these practices. Furthermore, measures to step up prevention for young people through the redeployment of compulsory examinations can only satisfy us, as our group has always invested in such an issue. Too long considered, prevention seems to come back in grace today. It is essential that all this be achieved through political leadership. Finally, the overhaul of the hospital appears more than necessary and we welcome the effort made in the PLFSS for 2019 to ensure a arrowed investment that will serve to improve the care and reception of patients. The last issue, which concerns the protection of the most vulnerable, is surely the one that is most important to us. Indeed, our group has always mobilized to step up the support of the public in difficulty. Thus, the ambition to provide additional health care to all through the merger of CMU-C and CBA seems to us to be an extremely positive initiative. It is clear that all citizens, regardless of their resources, can benefit from an effective complement. In addition, confirmation of the increase in the minimum old age and the disabled adult allowance was expected and will therefore be on the rendezvous. Here again, it is essential to continue our efforts towards these people who are too often banished from society. As far as family policy is concerned, we agree with the proposed measures, whether it concerns the alignment of maternity leave for self-employed women and women farmers, the specific boost on the addition of free choice of mode of care, or the new method of allocating and calculating personal assistance for housing. However, Modem has always been the guarantor of a fair and ambitious family policy. It must, of course, remain a policy of solidarity, but also a policy for the whole nation. The challenge of our time is the confusion between social policy and family policy, but the latter has not only been designed to help people in difficulty: it has been designed to ensure that all families, regardless of their social situation, are treated equally. It simply means that all the children of our country, all the families of our country, regardless of their social or territorial origin, must be supported in the same way: it is the principle of universality that we defend. This is the sine qua non for France to remain a dynamic nation, at the heart of the permanent evolutions of our world. On this specific subject, our group's proposals are few, inexpensive and highly targeted. Our wish is not to revolutionize everything but to give the necessary impetus to the families of our country. Minister, be assured that we will be with you to work together on this issue. All the Members of the Democratic Movement are eager to get involved, beyond a budget text that cannot make full use of this important issue. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] As you will have understood, the Modem Group will support this social security financing bill for 2019 with attention and ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u16	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to examine the social security budget, as we do every year in the autumn. I should therefore like to welcome on behalf of the Socialist Group the return to balance after 20 years of deficits: this is news that must be a joy to all of us, not because the previous Socialist Government has participated in it widely, but because we are desiring our children, who will be responsible for the sustainability of our social security system tomorrow. However, it is also necessary to be lucid and to bear in mind that this return to balance of the social security budget has sometimes been at the expense of the working conditions of hospital staff and the reception conditions in EHPADs. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to convey to all hospital practitioners, nurses, caregivers, stretchers all our consideration and gratitude: their daily commitment has been, is and will be an opportunity for France. Now, Mrs. Buzyn, Mr. Dussopt, I also have to tell you about my reservation about this PLFSS. I could limit myself to welcoming measures that are in the right direction, such as the tariff convergence of EHPADs in 2021 instead of 2023, or the 30% increase in the supplement to the care of a child with a disability, or "100% health" for optics, audiology and dentistry. It would be forgotten, however, that this "100% health" is not 100% public and that it will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the price of complementary health care, i.e. a decrease in the purchasing power of the French, when this will not deprive them of access to health care, for lack of means.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u18	Let's just say it frankly: the account isn't there with this PLFSS. Also, I have to report its inconsistencies and failures. To begin with, the Socialist Group is opposed to the decline in the purchasing power of the households that you orchestrate in this project with the unindexing of retirement pensions from social and family benefits. After the increases in CSG last year, you are recidivism this year by depriving families and pensioners of €5.2 billion per year. For information, 5.2 billion, that is exactly the amount that France is missing with the removal of the ISF that you voted last year. I therefore take it very simply that this Government prefers to loot families and retirees rather than call for a financial effort from the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u19	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u20	Then, our disagreement is total when you deprive social security of part of its revenue with the end of the compensation. To explain this simply to our fellow citizens: until now, the state has repaid every euro borrowed from social security, but from tomorrow onwards, the state will no longer pay back, will no longer compensate for the sums of money taken from the latter's budget, which is unacceptable and, above all, very dangerous. This is even rather devious because, without taking full responsibility for it, you are implementing a system change and a total paradigm shift in social protection. You are putting an end to a system of collective contributions where "everyone contributes to his means and receives according to his needs", to enter into a flat-rate system in the United States where the State covers at least individuals and, then, free everyone to offer more protective private health insurance. I must therefore denounce this perfidy and structural transformation of social protection which does not say its name. I would add that it calls into question the autonomy of social finances. I want to make it clear: social security is not, and should never be, a variable for adjusting the state budget. Finally, we disagree, once it is not customary, on the resources allocated to the public hospital, to the EHPADs and to the fight against medical deserts, that is to say, France's three health priorities. Indeed, despite an ONDAM of 2.5% and a slight increase – 400 million euros – of the health expenditure planned for next year, nothing in this envelope is intended for the two priorities of our health system, since these sums are already pre-empted by the health insurance conventions of 2016 and 2018. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I am sorry about the Government's choices because, with a return to the balance of the social security budget, we were entitled to expect more for the care of the French and for their purchasing power, and less for the big bosses and the business. Therefore, it is unsurprisingly in the face of your idleness, but with great bitterness, that I begin to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u21	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u22	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, a bill to finance social security is not just a draft budget. Indeed, it reflects above all the level of solidarity that our society is ready to deploy for each of its members. It sets out an ambition for our social protection and demonstrates our collective capacity to effectively protect our citizens from existing risks and to take into account new risks. It is this high degree of collective solidarity that falls into the budgetary priorities set out in a PLFSS every year. Our social protection is undergoing profound change. Its great principles and architecture were established in the aftermath of the Second World War and must adapt to the great transformations of our society. Less linear career paths, a society that has not experienced full employment for a long time, the ageing of the population, a longer life expectancy: all these factors have a major influence, directly or indirectly, on our social protection and its future. For more than twenty years, all successive governments, on the right and on the left, have brought their stone to the building of the reform of our social protection, according to the imperatives they faced and taking into account the acceptability, by our fellow citizens, of the transformations to be undertaken. The reform of pensions, the transformation of our health care system, the orientation towards more prevention of occupational risks and the adaptation to new forms of the family are all subjects that, on an ad hoc basis, come to speed up legislative developments. This government, from this point of view, is no exception, since most of the issues I have just mentioned are still part of its road map today. The reform of pensions, which is currently the subject of in-depth consultation, will come in its hour. It will have a direct effect on the balance of the old age branch of our social security, which now has a positive balance due, in particular, to the reform initiated in 2010. We will have ample opportunity to discuss the principles that should guide a thorough reform of our pension system. At this stage, our group will pay particular attention to the fact that this reform defines the same system of fair and just pensions for all our citizens, in particular by putting an end to the distinctions between the public and the private. We will also ensure that it takes into account the most fragile situation, those who have been confronted with chaotic career paths and quarries, that it guarantees the rights already acquired by our citizens and that it maintains the purchasing power of pensioners. The other major issue that determines the future of our social protection and the balance of the social security budget is, of course, the reform of our health system. This one's not well. Fortunately, thanks to a high level of equipment, a desire for performance and innovation and, above all, the commitment and dedication of healthcare professionals on a daily basis, one of the best systems for patient care and care in Europe. Nevertheless, he suffers from severe dysfunctions which, if not corrected quickly, risk seriously obeying his future. The issues have been known for a long time, but the responses to date have been only partial and insufficient. The decline in medical demography, the methods of paying for activity, the medical deserts in certain rural or urban areas in difficulty, the characteristics of a hospital-centric system, the increasingly severe exhaustion of hospital staff and the congestion of emergencies are all problems of which we are all aware. The plan "my health 2022", presented last September by the President of the Republic, of which you are of course in charge, Madam Minister, has several encouraging directions. He undertook a real reflection on the renewal of the practices and methods of remuneration of health professionals and took the bet of organizing a true complementarity between the different health professions in the territories. In the case of health facilities, it tends to strike a better balance between activity pricing and the lump sum payment of acts. It also draws the contours of a better articulation between city medicine and the hospital. While this plan leaves many aspects of how to implement it open, it identifies interesting prospects for the transformation of our health care system. The gap between the directions of the "my health 2022" plan and those of this PLFSS is only more sensitive, and it is strongly felt by healthcare professionals. The reality is that the PLFSS for 2019 struggles to draw a clear guideline and to fully fit in the indicated path, of which it outlines the contours, but in a very timid way. Is that enough, given the urgency of the situation? I wonder... Of course, this text contains provisions that we can only endorse. This is the case with respect to revenue, the transformation of the CICE and the CITS into a reduction in long-term social security contributions. This is an essential measure, which our parliamentary group has been proposing for several years, in the direction of more balanced financing of our social protection and better competitiveness of our businesses. However, we call on the Government to pay attention to the impact of this provision on individual businesses that are taxed on income – the FTEs. Several hundred thousand companies are in this case. We want to ensure that they will also benefit from the effects of this measure, which, for this tax category of enterprises, takes over with one hand what it granted with the other. We also welcome the Government's decision to mitigate the increase in the CSG for low-income households. This is a fair measure, which could have involved more pensioners, and we will also make proposals in this direction. In any event, it comes against an increase in the CSG decided last year by the Government, which we strongly opposed, even because of the negative effects it has on the purchasing power of pensioners. This draft budget, however, gives the impression of dispatching routine business, and we can only regret it. After a transition PLFSS in 2018, this PLFSS for 2019 leaves us waiting for a profound reform of our health system. As a result, it is difficult for our group to be satisfied with the finding of a return to balance of social security accounts in 2019, when we consider the scale of the structural reforms that remain to be achieved in order to better organize our health system and sustain this balance. Of course, we can only look forward to seeing a balance of social accounts on the horizon next year. However, this balance must not be based solely on the revenue generated by the dynamism of the wage bill, on the increase in taxes and on measures of savings which are more a matter of planing than of structural reform – whether for the hospital or the medicine – in line with what has unfortunately been practiced in recent years. Indeed, if the Government adheres to this method, there is a great risk that deficits will reappear at the slightest turnaround in economic conditions. The Court of Auditors, in presenting its report on the implementation of the social security financing laws for 2018, points out, and rightly so, that the deteriorating health insurance situation is one of the main areas of fragility of our social protection. Nor does the Court fail to recall the need to address the structural causes of social security deficits. This call for structural reforms is all the more urgent with regard to health facilities. Indeed, with debt remaining at around EUR 30 billion, the financial situation of public hospitals is particularly critical. Their deficit reached a record 835 million euros in 2017 and it is even murmured that it would have doubled again in 2018. The growth of ONDAM – which is set at 2.5% for 2019 – even if we note it, will not meet the funding needs of public hospitals, whose investments have been delayed for several years. Moreover, the mechanism of rebasement, which consists of punctuating part of the envelope allocated to hospitals to finance the excesses of city medicine, does not further contribute to securing the situation of these establishments. In this context, several federations of health institutions and hospitals, also facing a decline in their activity, have recently expressed their wish for a moratorium on the reduction of these tariffs. However, it must be noted that this PLFSS remains based on the mechanisms that characterized previous fiscal years, i.e. a logic of savings, which is not part of a logic of reform, but rather of expenditure constraint. A logic that strikes, this time again, the hospital and the medicine. The latter remains, again this year, one of the traditional adjustment variables of the health insurance budget, amounting to EUR 1 billion. The savings sought do not take into account the relevance of the expenditure and cause serious difficulties for the sector as a whole. It is both laboratories, wholesalers and pharmacies that are affected and affected by these measures. Their consequences can be particularly detrimental to our health care system, with the risk that laboratories will stop investing in new treatments, that distribution wholesalers will restrict their deliveries, and that the network of clinics will gradually be reduced. All of this would undermine the territorial mesh that provides first access to care, absolutely essential for our citizens. This logic of spending reduction also worries home care providers, who see the cost savings required under ONDAM increase by 50%, to the tune of EUR 150 million. This perspective is difficult to reconcile with the increasingly decisive role of home care for chronic diseases related to population ageing. It is therefore urgent to opt for a bill to finance social security which finally breaks with the approaches that have prevailed over the last twenty or thirty years. As the President of the Republic stated at the beginning of his presentation of the "My Health 2022" plan, the health policy has so far been designed in terms of reducing the supply of care and the number of professionals, with the idea that this would reduce expenditure. However, this approach has had an opposite result to the one sought: health spending is increasing; whole territories, both rural and urban, are faced with the scarcity of healthcare professionals, which forces patients to turn to the hospital, to which they play a role of first resort that is not their own, and which leads to excessive costs. It is therefore the overall organization of our offer of care that needs to be rethinked, by playing the articulation between city medicine and the hospital and the complementarity between the health professions. Previous powers, in particular the majority that preceded yours, have been too pre-emptive for this government to hand over measures to tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, which should have been applied for a long time. That is why our expectations and proposals, during the review of the articles of this PLFSS, will aim to help you move faster and further along the path of reforming our health system and its funding. This will be the case, for example, with regard to methods of remuneration: the PLFSS provides for the development of flat-rate funding for the management of certain chronic diseases, in this case diabetes and renal insufficiency. However, this package should only apply to health facilities in 2019. Most people with diabetes never see doctors other than their general practitioner. Our group will therefore propose that you start by engaging with all healthcare professionals involved in the prevention of complications related to chronic diseases. In the same vein, we expect this PLFSS to accelerate, more significantly, the constitution of the territorial health professional communities – CPTS – in order to develop the coordinated exercise of the health professions in the territories and to better care for patients. The commission of inquiry on equal access to the care of the French throughout the territory recommends a mesh of the national territory within two years. Moving faster and further, it is also beginning to reorganize the provision of hospital care in the territories. In particular, the same committee of inquiry recommends replacing the local hospital groups of health groups, which bring together all public and private actors in the health system. Our group is attentive to the territorial approach to health issues: we believe that there is a need to take better account of the differences in existing health situations, in order to better meet the needs of populations in terms of access to care. It is with this in mind that we will once again propose that a regional approach to health insurance expenditure targets be favoured for expenditure regulation that takes more account of regional disparities. In the same spirit, we will also propose a national assessment of the impact of regional investment fund credits on regional health situations. In addition, we look forward to further discussion on the implementation of the provisions to encourage the use of generics. We share the objective of developing generic prescriptions, but we want to know more about the criteria that will allow the prescriber to justify the delivery of a princeps drug to the patient rather than a generic. We are careful that the measure does not have an opposite effect to the objective, by reducing the rate of substitution, and we will be vigilant about the accompanying measures envisaged for elderly or illiterate people who may be more sensitive than others to the change in the packaging, shape or colour of their medicine. Finally, we will propose that the construction of ONDAM take more account of innovation, research and prevention in both health and occupational health. The situation in our health system justifies this bill to finance social security giving decisive impetus to its transformation. The IDU, Action and Independent Group sees the ambition of the "My Health 2022" plan and welcomes the measures that will improve the efficiency of the health organization in our country. However, several provisions are missing that would give this direction a tangible reality. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] During the consideration of this text, we will make a number of proposals to this effect, which we would like to see carefully considered by the Government and Majority. It is the quality of this attention that will guide our group's vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u23	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u24	Do you know the branding, Madam Minister? It was the French football championship that became the "Ligue 1 Conforama", the OM stadium renamed "Orange Vélodrome". Well, I suggest the same thing for the presidential palace: we could rename it "Sanofi Elysée". In our hemicycle, I would see here, behind you, as in football matches, a big sign where all the sponsors would display: Pfizer, AstraZeneca Genzyme, BMS, Novartis. On the screens up there, we would read: "Article 14 is offered to you by Servier", with perhaps an advertising page. Our discussions would gain clarity. The French would finally know for whom the law is made: for them or for Big Pharma? Don't you understand why I'm telling you this? ("No! » on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups.) Or are you pretending not to understand? So I'll be back for three days. Three days this summer. Three days that should be a scandal. On Sunday, July 8, on the radio, what was being heard on France Info? The Sanofi plant in Mourenx, near Pau, releases 190000 times more bromopropane, a carcinogen, into the atmosphere than the permitted standards. 190,000 times more! These releases have been going on for months, or even, according to the Prefect, for decades in catini. The next day, Monday, July 9, I get this information: the Dolder will be received by Emmanuel Macron at the Elysée on the same evening. What is the Dolder? A very private, if not secret, club that brings together the twenty-five biggest labs in the world, Merck, Pfizer, Novartis. And this year, in Paris, it is Olivier Brandicourt, the executive director of Sanofi, who presides. What a bowl! I thought! Our president's gonna punch on the table! We know him, Manu: he knows how to speak cash to "refractory Gauls", to "unemployed people who only have to cross the street", to "retired people who constantly complain". So he's going to tell them straight, too to Sanofi: "Now you're going to stop the nonsense, eh! In Mourenx, you're going to invest in security, put me back in the square without chipping. But that's not all. What the hell did you do with the devakin? You knew. You knew that in the foetus, depakin increases the risk of autism. You've known that for 20 years. You knew, and you didn't say anything, you continued to prescribe depakin to pregnant women. What's the result? 30,000 children, at least 30,000 children suffering from autism, 30,000 affected families. And you refuse to pay? To your shareholders, you pay a crazy money, 6 billion euros, 6 billion in a single year, 90 times the Telethon! 6 billion euros but nothing for your victims? Zero indemnification? It's the state that will pay, you say. To the French to settle your filth. Who are you kidding? So, I'm warning you, you're gonna change all this. And very quickly. Otherwise, it will be searches everywhere, on all your sites, at home, in your secondary residences, in the sea, in the mountains. You will remove the tie, the belt, the laces, and custody for everyone, for your entire board of directors."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u25	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u26	Intent trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u27	Ah, I was looking forward to it! It would be nice to be defended, that our President serves as a shield, that he protects us against these cold monsters, against these psychopaths of profit! But the next day, little disappointment. My hopes have been dashed. What did I find on Tuesday, July 10, in Les Échos? The joyous, jovial, radiant mine of Olivier Brandicourt, the director of Sanofi, accompanied by this title: "The measures of the Government are very encouraging. » In the interview, he detailed the list of his good deals: rising drug prices, research funds abounded by the Public Investment Bank, and especially reducing delays for marketing. And what is found, as if by miracle, in your law today? Article 14, reduction of time limits for placing on the market. Despite the troubleshooting. Despite the mediator. Despite the levothyrox. Reduction of deadlines. The Dolder did his shopping at the Elysée, and your Government accepted everything. It's a good return on investment for Serge Weinberg, Sanofi's CEO. A few years ago, he gave this advice to young Emmanuel Macron: "Enrich yourself. At his foal, he opened the doors of the Rothschild Bank. Then, for the campaign, he opened his address book and his cheque book. In return, barely elected, Emmanuel Macron opened his arms to him. It was live from the Elysée, on BFM, on the day of his induction, the new President split the crowd and kissed the CEO. For his crimes and crimes, Sanofi is not punished: you reward them. It's the complicit state. The complicit president. The Prime Minister, an accomplice. And you, Madam Minister, an accomplice. Complicate with these cold monsters. Complicate with these psychopaths of profit. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Sanofi merges with Macronie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Mr President, I will not comment on the substance of your statement, but let me remind you that it is customary to greet the minister on the bench, the rapporteur or the chairman of the committee, possibly the chairman of the sitting. Moreover, when we speak of the President of the Republic, we do not call him by his nickname. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in advance, I wish to speak out against the real censorship that was orchestrated on the occasion of this bill on the financing of social security, by the abuse of inadmissibility under section 40. No fewer than 533 amendments were declared inadmissible, which is not acceptable. That is not how parliamentary democracy is respected! Each of us may want to discuss important issues with the Government! I turn to the text and various provisions of this draft. It is certain that we will not be able to approve: the freezing of social assistance, the increasing tax burden on insured persons, in particular pensioners, and the continuation of social security exemptions. For others, wait and see! Let us wait to see, indeed, whether the EUR 400 million increase in ONDAM that you will grant to hospitals, as you say, will reassure the staff and provide better service to our patients. We strongly doubt this because the needs go far beyond this amount: hospitals are in the red with 1.4 billion deficits and petitions from doctors and hospital staff in the territories are shovelling. We are also waiting to see if the end of the pricing to the activity we support will bear fruit. On the other hand, we cannot support the package for the reorientation paid to emergencies. If this idea can be based on a good intention, the fact of "paying for not caring", of giving a check to healthcare staff, to the public service, in order not to care, is morally and politically unacceptable! We will also closely monitor the actual application of what you have called the "zero charge balance" or more abusively, which you call "100% health." Not all care will be affected, so it's not 100%! This mechanism, which may seem laudable, will ultimately be financed by the supplementarys which will pass it on to the contributions paid by the insured persons themselves. The same mechanism for the enlargement of the CMU. You present this text as the bill for the historical adjustment of social security accounts. Of course, but at what cost? We remain on exclusively accounting logics, those of clear cuts. How many sacrifices will insured persons, pensioners, hospitals or medical and social institutions, including EHPADs, still have to make? Fiat and Iborra, authors of a brilliant report, estimate the urgency of these establishments in billions of euros! I recently received representatives of the non-profit medical and social sector who expressed their dismay at the decline in the means of providing day-to-day care. We ask them every year for more savings! Meanwhile, you grant exemptions from employers' contributions to businesses. They may be beneficial, in some cases, but they are not compensated, which is a major concern. Above all, the main source of concern for elected representatives of rural territories, mountain elected representatives and island elected representatives remains the medical deserts. When will we commit a large-scale plan to combat this scourge in our territories and valleys? When will you understand that this problem can only be solved by a true territorialisation of health, closer to the needs of patients, through adapted and experienced solutions? Telemedicine cannot be the miracle solution. Let's work hard to create the best conditions for doctors to settle in our villages! The report by the chairman of our group, Philippe Vigier, is a good basis for work. Finally, I would like to raise a more specific issue for Corsica. Minister, I think you are sensitive to equal access to the care of the people. Although Corsica has been recognized by law as an island-mountain, despite the absence of a university hospital, the same rules of common law apply to the care of patient transport. When certain medical specialties do not exist on site, which is often the case, you have to go to Nice or Marseilles. Health insurance accounts for more than 26,000 trips per year, which is considerable. However, its treatment arrangements are restrictive and inadequate to the reality of the island: a request for a systematic prior agreement, the care of a single attendant for persons under 16 years of age, a case-by-case examination for adults and 16-18 years of age, a lack of accommodation. This situation takes a dramatic turn when it comes to minors, especially when they are suffering from long-term affection. Sometimes one of the two parents chooses to move, at the risk of destabilizing the family core and sacrificing his professional career. We are facing a real break in territorial equality that you must remedy! Today, these families deal more or less with the situation thanks to the action of the associations, to the family and friendly solidarity and to the measures taken by the community of Corsica. The Inseme association, which is helping families and which I speak for here, has recently provided a tremendous piece of work in the context of a report presented to the Economic and Social Council of Corsica. It is up to us and it is up to you to act now by adapting the social security code! "The answer to this problem cannot be based on individual, scattered and limited actions. It is now important for public institutions to take full advantage of this in order to put in place a regulatory framework adapted to Corsica's specific health situation. » [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] You will understand, Madam Minister, that this is not a whim, in this case, but a problem that arises from a real geographical specificity. I'm asking you to fix it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u30	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u31	Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this general discussion gives me, as a parliamentarian of the majority, the opportunity to speak on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019. The President of the Republic has entered into a trust agreement with the French, based on the sincerity of the debates and the accounts. The latest feedback from the Commission des comptes de la sécurité sociale revealed a 2018 financial year in line with the forecast announced. Genuineness is the essential premise for starting a debate on a finance law. And I would like to add this, in reaction to the opposition's remarks to this same perch, in this discussion: colleagues in the opposition, in particular Mr Ruffin, sincerity is a concept that finds correspondence in ancient Greek for Aristotle. Sincerity is the disposition and the balance between bragging and reticence. I, for my part, would not dare to add indecency. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would therefore like to reaffirm the position of the Republic on the move, which shows sincerity towards the French. I wish to speak frankly and without concealment. Demagogy must not belong to this microphone. This is the first time in 18 years that social security accounts have been in balance. The meaning we wish to give to our action must be reflected in the continuity of our country's transformation, which has been under way for more than a year now. It is the second PLFSS of the quinquennium of the President of the Republic. Last year's debate allowed us to fully reflect our choices of a freed economic policy to enable a strong social policy to be adopted this year. This is an opportunity to invest in our health care system through the upgrading of the national health spending target, ONDAM, which was raised by 2.5%, or 5 billion more than in 2018, including 400 million dedicated directly to the launch of the "My Health 2022" plan. The transformation of our country must necessarily incorporate the idea of protecting the most vulnerable, and national solidarity must be at the service of the weakest. We must speak frankly: providing an ecosystem conducive to medical research is an essential step in ensuring that medical-scientific progress benefits all patients. The pharmaceutical industry is not limited to its sole shareholders. She is a key player in medical research to support the excellence of French academic research. France's health independence also translates into its ability to maintain and grow the industrial fabric of the medicine on its territory. The Prime Minister, by launching the work of the Eighth Strategic Council of Health Industries, the CISC, on 10 July 2018, wanted to mobilize the energies of both public and private partners to strengthen France's attractiveness. It is vital to place our country in the dynamic of global growth. Scientific and industrial agility must quickly benefit our citizens: therefore, the PLFSS must be able to adapt to it and be responsive. It is our responsibility to ensure that patients benefit quickly from therapeutic advances, especially those with serious conditions, and to whom medical progress brings an increase in survival at the same time as a hope for healing. To this end, Article 42, by extending temporary authorisations for use, will enhance early access to innovative health products, while ensuring the sustainability of the care system. To allow access to these innovations, we need to pay attention to the sustainability of our health care system, including the volume of drug expenditures. Measures to promote the development of generics are common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u32	They're not new...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u33	They enable real savings to be made without damaging the quality of the care provided to our citizens: 1% of the additional replacement rate makes it possible to save 17 million euros for a medical service rendered identical. I would remind you that France is behind its European neighbours in this area. The fact that the inclusion of the words "non-substitutable" on the prescription, in the face of the name of a medicine, to be justified, necessarily creates a dialogue between the doctor and his patient, which is a source of greater pedagogy, essential to the appropriation of generics by the patient. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This PLFSS is focused on our fellow citizens and territories, as well as on novations and prevention. It is simply a bill that serves everyone, to prepare the major plans of tomorrow, the major plans of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u34	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, President of the Committee, rapporteur-general, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to make a confession to you: I hoped that this second five-year social security financing bill would finally outline a real policy for the families of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u36	He's a great naïve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u37	However, in the text before us, I find no real ambition, even though our country registered 50,000 fewer births in 2017, which confirms the drastic decline in births that we have known for four years now, far from the French example in terms of family policy and birth. Worse still: this year, families will lose purchasing power due to the total lack of revalorisation of family allowances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u38	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u39	I really regret that your government has made the choice to continue this destruction of family policy, when this PLFSS should have been an opportunity to make real proposals for a family policy worthy of our country. This is likely what led the CNAF Board of Directors to reach an unfavorable opinion on this PLFSS. Among the measures justifying this choice is article 44, which provides for the underindexing of family benefits, whereas they should have kept pace with inflation, as has always been the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u40	The sacrifices are always the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, you will tell me, perhaps it is better that there is nothing in your budget, rather than the punctures on the incomes of the families of France, which have been followed for six years now and continued last year, with the reduction of the young child's allowance. So, since there is nothing in your budget, I could have stopped saying that. However, because we, the Republicans, consider that the arrival of a child in a home is an investment for our country and an invaluable asset for the parents who receive it, and because we consider that our family policy must change in the light of the evolution of families, their composition and a better reconciliation between family life and working life, yes, we have rooted in ourselves the conviction that another family policy is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u42	That's our hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u43	No, minister, family policy is not social policy. For us, the purpose of family policy is to compensate for the arrival of a child in a home. As a result of this policy, a family with a child should not experience a decline in its standard of living compared to a family without a child. This system is virtuous. Tomorrow, when these children become active, they will provide pensions for families who do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This family policy can still be implemented in many ways, especially since the surplus of the family branch allows us to consider this choice. Yes, minister, we are calling for an increase in the family quotient ceiling, which was again denied to us last week in the context of the review of the finance bill. Yes, Madam Minister, we are calling for the abolition of the modulation of family allowances and a return to total universality. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, we want the birth premium to be paid before the child's birth – this is a consensus. Yes, we believe that ways must be found to better reconcile family and working life, and that it is up to working life to adapt to family life, not the opposite, as is all too often the case. To this end, we need to provide all parents with appropriate childcare facilities and create nurseries, which are far more numerous than the 30,000 announced in the poverty plan and which you will not create, moreover, since it is above all the local authorities that are the actors of these choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u46	It is always the municipalities that pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u47	These local authorities, however, need more flexibility and less restrictive and contradictory standards in order to create day-care centres, as well as a single, reformed service provision, which finally enables children from families in difficult social situations or children with disabilities to be accommodated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u48	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u49	Yes, rather than a national quantitative objective, we need to set local targets for the creation of young children's places, negotiated between the actors in the territory. Yes, we need to diversify child care patterns and provide real status for child care workers, as well as to allow them to access training and regroup when they want to. Yes, we need to consider unified support for families, in order to reduce the remaining difference between collective and individual care. Yes, we need to re-establish the school as the first place to inform parents about parenting support actions and provide parents who wish to do so with the opportunity to take shorter and better paid parental leave, which allows one of the parents to keep their Wednesdays during the child's schooling period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u50	Please conclude, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many proposals – they are not the only ones – which, for the most part, make consensus, many proposals, on which we are ready to work with you, if you consider that a child policy is necessary for our country; many proposals, which constitute the very essence of our political convictions and which we will defend, in the context of the consideration of this bill on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u52	Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u53	Personally, Madam President. I have sought in vain, in the Rules of Procedure, which I do not know by heart, the article which prescribes to me the manner in which I must speak of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u54	This is a simple question of politeness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u55	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] A year ago, Madam President, you told me here that I have no right to question the President of the Republic. I then wondered if he was not, like Voldemort, in Harry Potter, the one whose name is not to be declared. Above all, we must consider the way he calls us and how he treats the French: "people who are nothing", "refractory Gauls", "laid men", "unliterated women". It seems to me that my expressions are very much below his!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You don't like my style, Madam President, either. We won't spend our holidays together. But for the proper conduct of our debates, I simply ask for respect for neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] Mr President, you are calling on the Rules of Procedure for personal reasons, and that is not a personal fact. The President-in-Office simply respects what is customary, if not polite. It is customary, when speaking in the Chamber, for ministers to be greeted on the bench. Don't take my remark for a personal remark, MP. I have sometimes taken back Members who were questioning each other or who had brought food or drink to the House. I repeat: the presidency of the sitting is in its role when it enforces the practice in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u59	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u60	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, health has become the first concern of the French people. However, the practice of medicine is intended to undergo profound changes in the years to come. Our health care system will necessarily have to adapt if we are to maintain its sustainability. Three issues must collectively challenge us: the development of new technologies – artificial intelligence, genomics, digital tools; the arrival of new, more personalized and costly therapies; The increase in the burden of chronic diseases, coupled with the ageing population, will inexorably increase health spending and weaken our health care system and access to care. Before examining the text, I would like to share with you the MODEM Group's vision of the health-related articles of the PLFSS and to make several proposals. First of all, with regard to the development and deployment of new technologies, accelerating the digital shift in our health care system is essential to improve the quality of care and exercise of health care professionals. Last year's Social Security Financing Act was a major step forward in allowing the reimbursement of teleconsultations. This year, the bill provides for all prescribers to equip themselves with digital solutions and commit themselves to making them evolve according to the available updates: that's good. With regard to enhancing access to therapeutic innovation, faster access to the most innovative and beneficial health products for patients is a major challenge for our health system. Last week's warning cry from cancerologists about patients' access to the latest innovations in cancerology reveals, in this regard, the shortcomings of our health system to finance innovative and costly treatments. This situation carries the risk that a two-tiered medicine will be established, to the detriment of the most disadvantaged. To enhance rapid access to innovative medicines, the PLFSS for 2019 plans to expand early access to innovation. We welcome this measure, although this complex article does not leave to question the actors about the commitments made by the Prime Minister last July at the Strategic Council of Health Industries. On the other hand, with regard to the strengthening of the quality and relevance of care, the principle of developing an approach to the continuous improvement of the quality and safety of care in the hospital sector, dear to our group, is reaffirmed in the PLFSS for 2019: we welcome it. The new IFAQ quality compensation system – a financial incentive for quality improvement – is an effective lever. In particular, it provides for a penalty to be applied to institutions whose results do not meet a minimum threshold for some of the criteria for improving the quality and safety of care. If this measure is commendable, it must necessarily be accompanied, in our view, by a plan to improve the quality of the facilities that would have been subject to a financial penalty. Our group will defend an amendment to that effect. The members of the MODEM Group can only share the Government's ambition to give all French people equal access to care. This priority is reflected in the application of "100% health" in optics, dental and audioprosthetics with the introduction of the remainder at zero charge. Such a measure appears to be an indisputable step forward, even if we share the concerns about the tariffs for complementary health care: we will pay particular attention to the operational implementation of this measure. Finally, there is a need to prevent it. Our analysis of access to care and our recommendations in this regard cannot be complete without a reference to prevention, including primary prevention, health education and health promotion. Indeed, if our health care system wishes to continue to treat all French people equally, it must try to delay the occurrence of diseases as a matter of priority. Primary prevention is the poor parent of our public health policy. We welcome the fact that the PLFSS has a prevention component, but regret that the Committee on Finance has declared some of our amendments inadmissible – we could have proposed a shift from behavioural taxes to prevention or funding for testing on prevention. We must accept this choice: that is why the MODEM Group has endeavoured to table other amendments in this direction, in particular with a view to introducing a compulsory visit from the age of 3 or to providing sustainable funding for prevention. Consideration of this text in a public session will be an opportunity to give concrete expression to our commitment to making prevention a priority of our public health policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u61	No one applauded? We can see that Marc Fesneau is gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u62	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u63	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, you have decided to set out in this PLFSS two main guidelines: to protect the most vulnerable and to invest in transforming our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u64	And attack the families!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u65	If the intentions are positive, our expectations are disappointed, despite some significant measures such as the extension of maternity leave to women farmers and self-employed workers, your turn back on the removal of the scheme for the exemption of burdens on seasonal workers, or the redeployment of compulsory health examinations for children. The debate that is taking place today will, however, be an opportunity to show the misleading or imprecise appearances of your ambitions. We cannot allow the idea that the French would win with your choices to spread. Unfortunately, this is the opposite for a majority of them, especially for the most modest and middle classes. This text is expected to take the first steps in the various plans announced in recent weeks: the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty, the national health strategy 2018-2022 and the consultation for older age and autonomy. However, it is part of the continuation of the previous PLFSS: it marks no break with the liberal logic of your policy since the beginning of the quinquennium. This logic is reflected in a reduction in the appropriations allocated to social policies; It undoubtedly undermines the purchasing power of the French and, as a result, reduces the chances of an economic recovery. Another way is possible. This is proof of the bold and progressive choices of some of our partners faced with the same constraints imposed by the European Union. This is the case for the Spanish government, which plans to raise the minimum wage and index retirement pensions to inflation, when you yourself prefer to remove this indexation. Among the most questionable measures in your budget, the differentiated revalorisation of social benefits is certainly the most regrettable in the current context of widening inequalities and reducing purchasing power. Over the next two years, you plan to upgrade social benefits – pensions, family allowances and APL – by 0.3% per year. Rather, we should be talking about a near freeze, since this percentage is much lower, if not zero, given the outlook for inflation. This measure is in contradiction with the return to the surplus of the family branch. It is unfair because it involves all families without distinction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u67	It also contradicts the stated goal of protecting the most vulnerable, as millions of households will be harmed. I have a special thought for the thousands of agricultural pensioners, whose fate is postponed to the future reform of pensions without seeing any revalorisation of their weak pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u69	It is unfair to turn a blind eye to the precariousness of their situation. You break the machine of redistribution and prevent the fight against inequalities. As you embark on a reorganisation of the health care system, you show a willingness to better protect the most vulnerable by improving their access to care. This is the meaning of the "100% health" offer. In principle, we are necessarily in favour of ensuring basic care for optics, dentistry and audioprosthesis. But in its implementation, this offer is complicated. Announced as a flagship measure, it actually appears as an eye-catching measure whose application will demonstrate the limits. To talk about 100% support after additional care is to forget that not all French people have access to it. It also means making the smaller insured persons pay the extra cost of this measure. In fact, unlike social security contributions, premiums and contributions for supplementary benefits are proportionally more important for the latter's income. In order to meet the overall objective of improving access to care, 100 per cent social security coverage would have been preferable. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling on the Government to assess the cost of social security funding for the "100% health" scheme. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Together with my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, we will focus the debate on all these issues by demonstrating the feasibility of an alternative budget that is fair and that meets the social and health expectations of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u70	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u71	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill on the financing of social security for 2019 is a continuation of the one that our assembly voted for 2018: it is a social breakdown project of our country and its model of solidarity. I cannot speak of this text without speaking of what it does not address for the overseas countries and territories. With the rapid ageing of the population, the problems of health transfers and repatriations, the specific difficulties of care, it offers few or no answers. However, these issues need to be addressed in order to ensure equal access to care and support. In the department of La Réunion, for example, how will we react to the upcoming papy-boom, a real time bomb? Of course, the measure that is most shocking to us is included in section 44. In this article, you give yourself an exemption to allow retirement allowances and pensions to be re-evaluated by only 0.3%. However, the law provides for social benefits to be indexed to inflation; This year, however, the inflation rate is 1.6%, not 0.3%! A pensioner will lose an average of EUR 169 per year. Do you think he can afford it? The economy allowed by this racket organized by Bercy would be 2 billion euros – a sum you take from the pockets of those who need it most and the elderly. Like last year, you're going to protect the fraud bosses and hit even more on the recipients. Thus, in Article 17, you will reduce the penalties against companies who commit hidden work. Currently, those who commit this crime may lose the benefit of all their social exemptions. But today, you are looking at this case to mourn the evil fate that the law would reserve for those who do not fulfill their obligations. We cannot accept it, because fraud on social security contributions is not a small problem: it amounts to EUR 20 billion a year. At the same time, you reinforce the coping and the measures against the insured persons who have benefited from an overpayment. But when the latter is linked to an error of the administration, it is still not to the insured to pay! Honestly, do you think the poor in this country are getting rich on the back of social security? Yes, as usual, you feed the anti-assistant and anti-fraud discourse against the insured as you continue to cajole the companies that empty the social security funds when they do not pay the contributions they owe to the nation. It's outrageous! Of course, this text still contains many other inefficient and socially unjust measures. Thus, Article 8 aims to transform the CICE and the Fillon tax niche. While the CICE has not created jobs, as France Stratégie has proven, and the Fillon scheme is a low-wage trap, you decide to sustain these exemptions. What do we have to understand, Madam Minister? Article 19 provides for compensation for exemptions from social contributions. You tell us that the social security budget is in the green, so the state can withdraw its compensation. But just as you continue the policy of giving gifts to the big bosses, you reduce the revenues of social security without compensating them. Because of these broads, the social security budget will soon be back in the red again and, in order to return to stability, you will ask for new sacrifices from the population, our hospitals, healthcare staff or the sick. Enclosed in your liberal ideology, you will repeat from year to year, to sink our social model. We are against the taxing of the social security budget, so we cannot accept your policy of misleading exemptions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In short, there is nothing good or new in this text. We will therefore vote against this bill on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u72	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u73	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, one in three Frenchmen gave up their health care because of a lack of resources. This alarming finding is the result of the disengagement of health insurance, which less and less reimburses certain essential benefits such as optics or dental care, prompting one third of our compatriots to make arbitrations in their budget and, ultimately, to sacrifice their health. This third of the ill-treated is also the one who suffers first and foremost from mass unemployment, the housing crisis, energy insecurity and territorial exclusion. In the face of access to care, the French are less and less equal. Secretary of State, these realities stem from your technocratic vision of health as one commodity. They are the consequences of your policy and that of your predecessors, which impose an objective of profitability. For you, health has a price and it is only for those who can afford to pay for it. This draft law on the financing of social security for 2019 is in line with the guidelines of the health plan presented by Emmanuel Macron on 18 September. A good diagnosis, of course, but a very bad treatment! The remedies you are advocating will profoundly increase the tensions in our health care system and increase inequalities. With you, false good ideas quickly become real disasters. Take the example of the creation of 4000 positions of medical assistants, based on the model of dental assistants. These low-skilled young people will most likely need to optimize performance. For example, it is planned to save 25 to 30 per cent of medical time. The Ministry of Health prefers to calculate the time of a voltage intake and decree that a toilet should not exceed ten minutes. Minister – who are absent – with your goal of freeing up medical time, we will not treat better, but we will treat the chain. Responsible for the commodification of health, fee-for-service will not be abolished, but gradually competed by a financial incentive to quality and by financing the package for diabetes and chronic renal failure. This is still a good misconception because this package may be a source of dangerous drifts, as some hospitals may refuse to receive a diabetic that they have already seen twice, on the pretext that the third visit is not included in the package. Unsurprisingly, this bill does not derogate from the obsession of the President of the Republic, who has been his real compass since the beginning of his term of office: emptying the pockets of pensioners. The introduction of the remaining zero charge, which will allow 100% coverage of glasses and dental and auditory prosthetics, will have the direct effect of increasing the rates for health supplements. After the increase in the CSG, retirees will be bleed again. The more than sixty years of age, who are by necessity the most demanding of dental care, hearing aids and glasses, could see their mutual contract increase by 9.3% on average: concretely, a couple of pensioners who pay their mutual 170 euros per month would have their bill increased to 192 euros. Minister – who has not yet returned – you will only be able to watch, powerless, mutuals inflate their tariffs and puncture our elders further. Your bill is therefore part of a pure logic of profitability, but also part of the path of foreign preference. You cannot hunt for excessive savings and thus penalize French access to care. Your decision to raise family allowances by only 0.3% is unacceptable and socially unjust, while at the same time, allowances for asylum seekers will be increased by 1.6% in 2019. With this bill, you assume total social security for migrants and health insecurity for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u74	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u75	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, consistency, consistency and congruence: these are the key words of the draft law on the financing of social security. Constance, because with this text and many others, we reaffirm the priorities of our mandate. Indeed, we want to free up the work by transforming the CICE into permanent reductions in costs, which is 180 euros more per year for an employee at the SMIC in 2019 and 760 euros per year as of 2020. We also want to strengthen the purchasing power of the French, in particular through the desocialisation of overtime, which represents an increase of 11% for each additional hour worked and 200 euros per year for the people concerned. We also want to modernise our country, in particular through greater use of experimentation, especially in the organisation of care. Finally, we want to strengthen the protections for the most fragile, particularly with the implementation of the "zero load remaining" on optics and hearing and dental prostheses. Consistency, because we are strengthening our ability to control spending. We are continuing to reduce the cost of labour and wish to give signals of confidence to our country's economic activity. We renew this trust in emancipation through work, through which everyone finds and strengthens their place in our society. We are acting to raise the lowest wages and bring everyone to employment, combining investment in skills and reducing labour costs. At the same time, we were stepping up our efforts in favour of EHPADs, disability and the most modest, by radically tackling poverty traps. We strengthen prevention and encourage innovation. Finally, it is congruence because this text completes measures undertaken last year, such as the evolution of the CICE, as it continues the effort to control the indebtedness of the health insurance scheme, because it lays the foundations of the ambitious strategies announced by the President of the Republic for the transformation of the health system or the fight against the deepest roots of poverty, because it takes note of the difficulties of hospitals, so far financed by the act for heavy chronic diseases, because it makes an unprecedented effort in favour of the assets, which have rarely been the subject of so many convergent measures in recent decades, and because it corrects the effects of the one-off thresholds for pensioners subject to the full CSG rate, that is, about 300,000 people. It is a matter of justice, based on our ability to listen and adjust our devices. I understand that our constancy is annoyed by some on the benches of our oppositions, even those who have lost all coherence for so long. I therefore ask them to acknowledge the congruence of our commitment to the financing of social security, anchored in reality and opposed to all the postures and all forms of demagogy on whose behalf we should detricate everything that the previous majorities have accomplished – social contributions on overtime are the perfect example. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our commitment finally comes in three sentences: we do what we say, we say what we do, and we continually assess its scope and effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u76	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u77	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Chair of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, as of today, our House is considering the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. This budget, which is higher than that of France, which we are looking at in parallel, is the visible translation of our country's social pact: unity of social security, generalisation of coverage to the whole population and extension of the risks covered. Above all, everyone contributes according to their means and each receives according to their needs. It is one of our republican principles, which has so far transcended political alternations. Your project is part of a far-reaching reform that you want, announced by the President of the Republic last September, entitled "My Health 2022". However, this PLFSS is very poor compared to the announcements made, of which we do not see the legislative translation. The health plan was announced only a month ago, but it must be noted that on other issues your Government is moving fast, if not too fast. I am therefore surprised and regret that things take more time when they concern the French, their daily lives and their direct benefits. In this way, we are looking at a PLFSS that, apart from the few election promises of 2017, boils down to an accounting document and manages day-to-day business, but provides no breath for our social protection. You are honoured to have the first balanced budget since 2001. That is true and must be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u78	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u79	This is good news for France's financial situation and social budgets, but let us not forget how we got there. Not only are the measures taken by the right-wing governments, such as the creation of ONDAM or the 2010 pension reform, which have made a lasting difference in social accounts, but it is also the unbearable pitfalls against family policy and pensions by the previous left-wing government, of which you are the heirs, that have led to this result. You're the heirs, because you're going to resort to the same solutions. In this way, you will deindex the rate of revalorisation of pensions, which will be 0.3%, while the rate of inflation will be 1.6%. As a result, pensioners will again experience a decline in their purchasing power. You choose the savings on their backs. They are the victims, not only of the previous socialist quinquennium, but also of your beginning of quinquennium. This is hardly surprising when you know that one of your media MPs considers that a "generational effort" can be requested from pensioners. You are wrong, Minister, Secretary of State: we cannot always ask for the same efforts. This disindexation is in addition to the increase in the CSG, which takes retirees to the throat. It is not your measure to allow 350,000 households to benefit from the reduced rate that will alleviate the pain. Worse still, members of your majority want to lower the CSG rate for a larger number of retirees, by further increasing the rate for retirees considered to be wealthy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u80	You voted in committee! Without your voices, she didn't pass!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u81	But when are we gonna stop this tax baton? The middle class experienced a real fiscal frenzy from 2012 to 2017 and you are unfortunately following the same path. Are you aware of the ras-le-bol of the population? According to a recent public opinion survey, 44% of French people now want a reduction in the tax burden, prior to the resorption of unemployment and the reduction of public debt. Finally, as has already been said, you are targeting another population: the family. Here too, you are in the continuity of the socialist quinquennium. After trying, at the beginning of the year, to attack the family quotient, which could only be saved thanks to the intervention of the group Les Républicains, in particular of our colleague Gilles Lurton, you attack the family allowances, which will, like pensions, be unindexed in relation to inflation. You will save 200 million euros on families. This is a bad signal, whereas on the contrary we should support the families and the birth rate of our country – it is an issue for the future. Finally, nothing in the PLFSS supports our seniors and caregivers. While the means are still declining and our needs are still increasing, you are not carrying any measures capable of halting this crisis. It is a human duty to help our elders and their caregivers; It is a human duty to allow them to live in dignity and security. This inhuman situation cannot and must not continue; We need to invest urgently. Many of our health care facilities are exsangued, there is not enough health care staff and there is no breath. The situation is such that we cannot wait any longer. The PLFSS was a possibility to display your awareness of the situation, but you miss it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] This text lacks scope. It is a day-to-day business project, with no vision and no answer to the main questions and crises facing the world of health. We hope that in the course of the debate you will accept our amendments in order to change it for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u82	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u83	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, this project contains interesting things, leads to be explored, sometimes useful progress, which must be recognised. That's for the satisfecits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u84	Ah! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u85	Sometimes, it is true, the Government seems to do so, but it usually pretends, as with the 20 euros increase in the activity premium, which will be only 8 euros at the level of the SMIC. The Government had not been sluggish with regard to poverty reduction, health and dependency, but what was behind the words? Most of the measures contained in your project are counter-current of the promised revolutions – it is not my appreciation but the observation made this morning, in a press release, by the associations of the solidarity sector. While social accounts return to the surplus, as a result of the savings measures taken by families, pensioners, the sick and the caregivers for almost 10 years, the Government has chosen the PLFSS to siphon these surpluses and to finance, in reality, the tax cuts for the most affluent households. For the first time, he goes back to the historic compromise introduced by the Veil Act of 1994: the full compensation of exemptions from social contributions. This means that the desocialization of overtime will, in fact, be paid by those who will not have the opportunity to do so. By 2022, the social accounts will be deprived of nearly 25 billion euros. This prevents you from financing nurseries, nursing homes, the poverty plan and hospitals, where the situation is explosive. Admittedly, the increase in ONDAM is welcome, but it is still insufficient if inflation is taken into account. The hospital is at risk, with a historically low investment rate and a negative operating outcome of health facilities for the first time. The pockets of productivity are empty: one can no longer consider, as the President of the Republic continues to do, that the difficulties of the hospital are soluble in a better organization. The time has come to reinvest, but your big investment plan of 920 million euros will not even fund the future CHU – university hospital – in Nantes, whose cost is estimated at 1.5 billion euros. So we'll have to tell us what projects you're giving up on. But there is worse than the hospital: the Government continues to call for efforts from families, by deciding to sub-index family allowances and pensions, although their branches are surplus. How many families, students and unemployed people will lose there? Think that a family at SMIC with three children will lose more than 130 euros a year. Despite the impact of the announcement on the desocialization of overtime, these families will have to work more, only in order not to earn less. This government more often proclaims than in its turn that it wants work to pay; This is the meaning you want to give to the changeover of contributions on the CSG. Fortunately, your government is telling the truth in writing, in the impact study of the PLFSS: it is a matter of lowering the cost of work. You admit that the increase in purchasing power will only be temporary. What you claim to give with one hand, you immediately take it back from the other. These sub-indexings will save 3.5 billion euros in 2019 and almost 7 billion euros in 2020, when you are also perping on a poverty plan of 8 billion euros over four years – poor plan! The Government speaks to us of republican equality through school and introduces compulsory schooling from three years old. How can I not agree? However, you are amending the social security code so that the school-rearing allowance is paid not at the age of three, at the time of compulsory schooling, but at the age of six. The Government also proclaims gender equality as a major cause of the quinquennium. However, after blocking a draft European directive on the subject, it makes no provision in the PLFSS for paternity leave. And when the Government does not cross words, it pays for words. Thus, Madam Minister, section 28: you indicate that, as early as 2019, the treatment of diabetes and chronic kidney failure will be paid on the package and not on the stay, as at present. But what is such a statement worth if we do not know, for example, for diabetes, how will the packages be calculated, how will the packages be distributed if a patient wants to be treated in several hospitals in the same year, what institutions will gain and who will lose, whether or not the fees of liberal doctors in clinics will be included in this package, and if so, how, and if not, what is the meaning of such a package? Finally, I will finish with 100% coverage of glasses, audioprosthetics and dental care. It's a beautiful goal, a beautiful announcement, a necessity. However, for words to be meaningful, it would have been necessary for social security to take over 100 per cent, not after the intervention of the supplementarys. You could afford it, but you preferred to siphon the surpluses. It is therefore the most modest ones who will pay the 100% after additional – whose rates are actually announced upwards. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Madam Minister, whether or not they still believe in the words of the Government, the French and French will have a choice between false words or words for nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u86	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u87	Maternity of Longjumeau: unlimited strike. Besançon emergency: on strike. Chalon-sur-Saône Hospital: on strike. Psychiatric Hospital Pinel d'Amiens: on strike for four months. Guingamp Hospital: on unlimited strike. Public EHPADs in Le Havre: on strike. EHPAD d'Eu: on strike. Puy-en-Velay Hospital: on strike. Hospitals of Brabois in Nancy: in struggle. Niort Hospital: on strike. Vierzon Hospital: on strike. Centre hospitalier universitaire de Toulouse: on strike. Last week, 600 staff members from Chalon-sur-Saône Hospital and public EHPADs were on strike. On the same day, Clermont-Ferrand's CHU Chief of Staff resigned. At Saint-Brieuc Hospital, 116 doctors resigned from the institution's commissions. And so many other examples! Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, our hospitals and our EHPADs are not well. It is this reality that lies behind the end of the social security deficit, which you welcome. Let us re-establish an ounce of truth: our health care system is like the lucrative private EHPADs, a vast deception that I did not measure the extent of before I set foot in this assembly! What will become of the social security deficit? Will he really disappear? Most of it will be transferred to a fund: CADES – Social Debt Depreciation Fund. In 2019, the debt will amount to EUR 89 billion. Nobody here knows, as no one knows either that this debt of 89 billion euros is being repaid by making the pocket of all French people, including pensioners, via the CSG and the CRDS. However, CADES issues financial securities with social debt without any transparency; Opacity reigns. We simply know that between 1996 and 2017, 52 billion euros landed, in the form of interest, in the pocket of unknown creditors. What is true of social debt is also true of social security. The original spirit of its founders at the end of the Second World War, "from each one according to his means, to each according to his needs," was completely lost. The unprecedented increase in the CSG last year is a sad illustration of this. Increasingly, it is the sick, disabled and retired people who are being asked to finance social security instead of the well-off, healthy, active people who are doing well. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] In these conditions of austerity, what is still financed by social security? If we gave her the means to get the money where he is, she could, in particular, fund our health care system. But our hospitals are on the verge of breaking up. With a debt of 30 billion euros, the services are held only thanks to the goodwill, humanity and motivation of the healthcare staff. The resources allocated to psychiatric hospitals decrease year after year and the conditions of life – or detention, call it as you wish – are every day more revolting for patients as for caregivers! Everywhere the healthcare staff is on the brink of the abyss: unremunerated periodicity, fatigue and stress, non-replacement of stops, impact on family life, suppression of rest periods or RTTs – recoveries for reduction of working time. And what do you propose for 2019? No less than 3.8 billion savings on their backs, despite suicides, resignations, hospital-business, consolidations, cuts in services! Your only horizon is that of devastating austerity! Access to care is compromised, healthy life expectancy is reduced and chronic diseases are exploding! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So where's the money? That is the final question. In the PLFSS, you give an additional €20 billion to companies: €20 billion in addition to all the gifts made before! These 20 billion euros, they would suffice to stop institutional abuse three times in our EHPAD! What do companies do with these tax gifts made on the back of social security? In the last quarter, France was the world's vice-champion for paying dividends to shareholders. The equivalent of 44 billion euros has gone in smoke and the state continues to be complicit in this immense waste, this immense injustice. While the ultra-rich speculate with social debt and earn colossal interests, while employers have fewer and fewer contributions to pay and can thus, without control, pamper their shareholders, it is the whole population that carries with it an exsanguated health system. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] So what do you say to all our seniors in EHPAD, who suffer from escarres, who suffer from bathing in their excrement for hours because of lack of staff? What do you say to the families and relatives of the caregivers who commit suicide, no longer bearing the pressure? What do you say to people waiting for hours in the emergency room? Minister, stop treating us as caregivers, as a burden and our patients, as clients, as a cost! We are human beings! Stop! Stop your abject economic dogmatism: open your eyes, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u88	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u89	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been considering, since this afternoon, the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill, a fundamental piece of legislation for our majority and our fellow citizens. Fundamental, because it proves the seriousness and responsibility of our action with the return of social accounts to balance, after eighteen consecutive years of deficit. Fundamental, too, because it embodies the commitments made to the French and allows us to keep the course of a policy that we think is fair and effective. Let us not forget that public spending this year accounts for 53.9% of the national wealth created and is financed either by taxpayers and taxes, or by future generations and debt. Indeed, this text gives concrete expression to our commitments to make work pay better, for the particular benefit of the middle classes. The strengthening of the general reduction of employer contributions and contributions, voted in the PLFSS for 2018, comes into force in two stages. We also promote purchasing power by introducing, as of September 1, 2019, the exemption from overtime and overtime social contributions. Similarly, the amount of the activity premium will increase in 2019 by EUR 20 for a premium paid at the level of the SMIC. Moreover, in line with the "100% health" plan and the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty, this text translates our commitments to protect the most vulnerable. We know, by compiling the studies of DREES, INSEE and the OECD – the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – that the most modest 20% of French people say that they are three times more likely to give up dental care than the most affluent 20%. This will allow all insured persons who need it to have access to a basket of quality care, without any burden, in terms of optics, dental care and audiology. Because the rate of non-use of support for the payment of a health supplement – ACS – is unacceptable, we also facilitate access to a health supplement for the most vulnerable, by extending, on 1 November 2019, the benefit of universal health coverage complementary to people who are now eligible for the GBA. It also enables us to deliver on our commitments to transform our health care system. In accordance with the "My Health 2022" plan, we are improving the quality of care for patients in health facilities, with the strengthening of the financial incentive mechanism for quality improvement in hospital, whose means are multiplied by five, from 60 million in 2018 to 300 million in 2019. We fund the "big bang territorial" of care with the recruitment of medical assistants, the formation of territorial health professional communities – the CPTS – and the remuneration of new nurses of advanced practices. We create a package for the management of chronic pathologies in the hospital, which effectively puts an end to the race for activity. We extend the scope of Article 51 of the previous PLFSS. The challenge for 2019 is to make ambitious projects possible, especially in the field of health facilities, in order to facilitate, for example, the joint exercise of hospital practitioners in the under-dense area. I would also like to welcome the new measures in the field of disability. Recall that the increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities as of 1 November 2019 will reach 900 euros. In particular, we provide increased assistance to families with children with disabilities, with an increase of 30 per cent in the maximum amount of the supplement for free choice of care. Finally, the PLFSS implements the national strategy for autism, with an abundance of resources of nearly 400 million euros, including 60 million from 2019. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will be proud to discuss here, alongside the Government, this text, which enshrines a genuine social ambition and real progress for purchasing power, for equality in access to care and for the protection of the weakest, in accordance with our commitments to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u90	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u91	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the law on the financing of social security, with a budget higher than that of the State, sets the amount of social and health expenditure for the coming year, EUR 509.6 billion. The return to balance of social security accounts is to be welcomed. I therefore welcome all the efforts made, all the previous reforms that are bearing fruit today: the pension reform, conducted in 2010, or the creation of ONDAM, in 1996. I also welcome the good economic situation, that is to say, the growth of the wage bill, which plays an important role in raising social security accounts. But I am still concerned about the magnitude of the cumulative debt, as there are 120 billion euros left to repay. Moreover, the risk of deficit remains largely conditioned on the economic health of our country. I am also concerned about your project because we are obviously measuring the consequences, with the large contribution of pensioners and the unindexed rate of revalorisation of retirement pensions and the rate of inflation, with the efforts demanded of families, again affected by a false revalorisation of allowances, with the pressure on the companies of the medicine, or with the heavy cost paid by the health institutions, first and foremost hospitals and their staff. The expenditure target, ONDAM, is announced at 2.3%, but this figure masks the reality of public hospitals with their deficits, which are once again asked, in 2019, to achieve nearly €1 billion in savings. However, the resources allocated to these institutions must be preserved, which call for a moratorium on the reduction of hospital fees and the thawing of appropriations. At the time of the transformation of the health system, professionals need more support than ever in these developments. Establishing long-term prospects is necessary; However, the funding bill does not begin the announced transformation shift, when hospitals and medical and social structures are experiencing extreme tension, as has been recalled. The territorial reorganisation of care takes on its full meaning here. Although I agree with the rapporteur-general that emergency services should be given priority, his amendment aimed at reorienting patients to city medicine by means of financial incentives paid to hospital establishments asks me as to its feasibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u92	We have to experiment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u93	The implementation of the reorientation package seems more appropriate to me in the context of a first experiment, the results of which we could evaluate. The prospects proposed by the territorial occupational health communities are credible and rapidly achievable alternatives. They deserve more funding and support, Minister; We have to go fast. For families and pensioners, the addition of your funding bill is heavy. The upgrading of the resource ceilings determining access to social benefits will effectively exclude many families from the benefit of the aid schemes. The under-recovery of pensioners' pensions will continue to reduce their purchasing power, which has already been significantly reduced since the CSG's increase. And what a hard blow for farmers, if we had not reacted, that the abolition of the specific scheme for casual workers seeking employment, which would have caused a loss of 144 million euros for seasonal employers! I will not ignore the positive measures in the text: the flat-rate financing of chronic diseases, the generalisation of influenza vaccination by pharmacists, the re-evaluation of the amount of the supplement of free choice of the mode of care of children with disabilities or the "100% health" plan applicable to optical, dental and audiology costs. But at what cost? We can question each other. I call for caution. This PLFSS presents the risk of creating a two-speed health care system: on the one hand, a low-quality health system that is fully managed; On the other hand, good quality health, the price of which will rise due to the sharp rise in the rates of health supplements, which can go – as we have learned today – up to almost 9% of the amount of contributions. I would also like to stress the weakness of the prevention aspect of the text. The measures for young people are insufficient. I call for increased public funding for research and development of new, more effective therapies for children with cancer. More generally, the fight against child cancer should be declared a major national cause in 2019. On the other hand, I am very concerned about the major concern of medical desertification. Madam Minister, what measures do you intend to put in place next year to effectively combat territorial disparities in this area? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, Secretary of State, you see that I have a number of concerns. Visibility is required. While the recent announcements by the President of the Republic seemed to set an ambitious course, I see only weak answers in this budget. This is a waiting budget. However, I have no doubt about your goodwill or your courage. Perhaps the discussions that follow will reassure us; I can only wish it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u94	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u95	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Chair of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, today we are starting to consider the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill, under apparently virtuous auspices of returning to balance of accounts. That is a fact that we must rejoice at. However, the presentation of the PLFSS leaves room for doubts about the sustainability of this balance. Despite the renewed health of social accounts, the social security deficit is threatening: for lack of new measures, it will resume next year. Let us recall that the improvement of social accounts was made possible by the courageous reforms that we have put in place, including the creation of ONDAM and the 2010 pension reform. In addition to structural reforms, you have preferred the continuation of a policy of fiscal battling which in recent years has targeted households and businesses to the tune of more than EUR 50 billion. However, due to the lack of structural reforms, as you know, the extinction of the social debt shown in the PLFSS for 2019 remains dependent on the evolution of the economic situation. We can't be more risky! In order to cope with expenditure, you are calling for a budgetary effort to deliver €3.8 billion in savings, the details of which remain unclear. These seem to be based on the price of medicines sold in pharmacies as well as on the reduction of the prices of biology, radiology and medicalized transport: always the same anxiety policy of planing! The balance will be achieved through the deindexation of pensions and family allowances, which will be increased by only 0.3%, well below inflation. For pensions alone, the expected saving is EUR 2 billion. Let us note a certain spirit of consistency in this matter! The 8 million pensioners concerned do not understand the pressure on them. You have obviously sought to alleviate their anger by changing the threshold of subjugation, but this measure, which can only be welcomed, should concern only 350,000 households.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u96	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u97	In order to adjust the social security budget, the Government had also decided, once again, to save more than €1 billion on the drug, by encouraging the prescription of generic medicines and eventually imposing a refund on the discount of medicines. Of course, the use of generics must be encouraged, but care must be taken about the consequences of such a measure on the whole chain of the medicinal product, particularly on distribution. Nothing about caregivers or the elderly; up to EUR 125 million for EHPAD, which is a very small amount given the number of these establishments in France and their staffing needs. On the other hand, the PLFSS displays resolutions that we can subscribe to. However, you do not avoid a pitfall that touches on each page: the one of the step backwards. Let us look at the exemption from wage contributions in respect of the use of overtime and overtime. All right! I support this measure. But why limit it to payroll contributions only and apply it only as of September 1, 2019? We have to go further, by challenging these hours completely, as we did. On this point too, you continue the policy led by François Hollande during the previous quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u98	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u99	Not quite anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u100	But that's so good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u101	The Socialists have left the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u102	You are proposing to transform the CICE into a reduction in long-term contributions for businesses. We'd like to believe you, but it's hard. The CICE rate has been reduced from 7% to 6%, a new basis on which the CICE's shift to premium relief will therefore be calculated. Companies will lose EUR 2.5 billion, which, together with rising taxes, notably on petrol and diesel, will weigh on the business. Some interesting measures can be included in your credit, Madam Minister, including the lump sum funding for two chronic diseases: diabetes and chronic kidney failure. Their flat-rate remuneration, which aims to free itself from fee-for-service, seems to me quite appropriate. However, at a time when we are talking about the urgent need for coordination and co-responsibility, it is a pity that the introduction of this package is restricted to the hospital. We'd have won to extend it to city medicine. As for the choice of sticking to two pathologies in order to evaluate this device, it seems to me wise because it leaves time to evaluate it. In addition, you offer nursing homes the opportunity to hire nurses in advanced practice, which is a good orientation. We suggest, however, that you show more ambition and create a true advanced practice nurse degree, which would improve the recognition of these professionals, which is an essential part of the care system. Let us also welcome the remaining zero-charged device, which provides for 100 per cent coverage of certain types of care. However, we may wonder about the risks involved, in particular the increase in contributions for health supplements, which will compensate for the obligation to take care of. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] It is felt that the Government, rather than implementing structural reforms to restore the accounts of the disease branch, prefers to take planing measures on hospital, medicine, pensioners and family policy, which once again serve as adjustment variables.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u103	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u104	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u105	Madam President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, today we are beginning, in our Chamber, to consider the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019, which is a highlight of parliamentary life. The number of speakers on the general debate is a testament to our shared interest in this text, which I welcome. I am not going to go into the details of the measures provided for in the text because previous speakers have already done so, sometimes with relevance, sometimes with a bad caricatureal faith. In order to shed light on these latter colleagues, who are probably not well informed, I will focus on a few provisions illustrating all the coherence and excellence of government policy that we, the members of the presidential majority, support. First of all, I would like to stress that the Minister for Solidarity and Health has complied with her commitments to return to balance and to reduce the debt burden on social security. Thus, in 2019, for the first time since 2001, the accounts of the general scheme will be balanced, including the Old Age Solidarity Fund. So much the better if the previous policies – notably referred to by our colleague Aviragnet, who is no longer present in the Chamber – have contributed to this, but have not succeeded in doing so! For our part, we will succeed. The social debt clearance target in 2024 will be met. The return to balance of social security accounts is crucial, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a guarantee of the consolidation of our social protection system. A few years ago, when our colleagues on the right-hand side of this House were in charge, the social security account deficit exceeded EUR 11 billion – according to 2011 figures, but those of 2010 are even more calamitous. I understand that our colleague Jean-Pierre Door – it is always a pleasure to speak among the last ones, because it allows us to respond to the previous arguments, to use a courteous term – strongly disapprove of the policy of deficit of social accounts carried out at the time. Too bad he didn't express himself when his friends were in the Government! Indeed, when we let the deficits in the social security accounts run out, we put it at risk, we call it into question. But it is our common good: it must be preserved, but it must also be regenerated. This is well understood by the present government and its majority: by restoring financial balance, social security is strengthened. The 2019 Social Security Financing Bill is fully consistent with the directions of government policy. For the past year and a half, members of the majority want work to pay and our fellow citizens to live better off their work. This translates into measures freeing the economy in order to stimulate activity. Thus, the PLFSS will transform the CICE and the CITS into a permanent drop in social contributions for employers. It should also be noted that the PLFSS provides – this measure seems to please a majority beyond our ranks – for the exemption of social contributions due in respect of overtime pay. This is not trivial: the measure will affect more than 9 million people and should generate an individual purchasing power gain of 200 euros per year on average, including among civil servants – I meet in my constituency. I will talk more at length about the CSG, which several of us have chosen to refer to, being strong – at this stage of the debate or later, by way of an amendment – to define new thresholds, exclusively relating to retirement pensions, we do not know why, without being able to justify the economic or fiscal relevance of this choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u106	It's out of clientelism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u107	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] They have forgotten – and this is all the more surprising given the fact that there are good connoisseurs in the social security budget – that all retirement pensions are subject to a CSG rate which is always lower than that paid by employees, who pay 9.2%, while the highest rate applied to retirement pensions is 8.3%. This is an indisputable reality! Why forget it? That's amazing! Do we have to wait for the twelve midnight blows to ring in this House to remember it? Come on! Thus, there is already a tax differential favourable to pensioners; All you have to do is see it and say it honestly. Thank you for encouraging me! However, we are attentive to the threshold effects of some pensioners. That is why the normal rate – which is 8.3%, I repeat, while it is 9.2% for active employees – will apply only if the pension recipient crosses the income threshold for two consecutive years. This is a measure of real attention to retirees. This PLFSS, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore faithful to the guidelines that we have set out in our contract with the nation: serious budget, because that is the guarantee of the sustainability of our social protection, but also solidarity. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, I want to conclude by expressing my full satisfaction, as well as that of the majority, with your funding bill, which illustrates the consistency of the project that we have been implementing for the past year and a half. We are constantly reforming our social protection system and giving all our fellow citizens real rights, not just formal rights, because each of us has the right to excellence in our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u108	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u109	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak on the aspects relating to the medical and social sector of this PLFSS, which, in this respect, let us say clearly, is a transitional text. Indeed, we can speak of a transition between the Government's ambition in the social field and the national consultation on age and autonomy, which is due to lead next year to a major bill on dependency. As it may be said from the outset, it is very much expected of all French and all professionals in the medical and social sector, so urgent is the need for our country to address the shift in the autonomy of vulnerable, elderly, disabled or chronically ill people. In the meantime, what can we learn from this PLFSS? First of all, let us welcome the progress made in Article 8, in particular the transformation of the wage tax tax credit into a permanent reduction in social contributions. This is an important measure for home support and accompaniment services. Let us also welcome the goodwill shown during the discussions in committee and the vote on amendments tabled by the opposition, for example those aimed at taking into account the patient's experience in the development of quality criteria in health facilities. Finally, let us welcome the fight against non-use of care for financial reasons, a real scourge that we must confront. However, you will allow me, Madam Minister, to note some concerns and inconsistencies. With regard to the fight against non-use of care and therefore the setting up of the remainder at zero charge, we are concerned about the increase in reimbursements by mutuals and supplementarys, which could lead to an increase in contributions for insured persons. According to a recent study based on the consumption of care of 100,000 clients over two years, a couple of pensioners who currently pay 170 euros per month for their individual health supplement would see their annual bill jumped by 192 euros per year. Once again, therefore, it is our elders who are at risk of suffering from your policy. To limit this risk, you announced the launch of a follow-up committee. How will this follow-up committee prevent mutuals from falling back on their feet? How will it prevent the increase in the prices of the free offer that will be made to compensate for the implementation of the regulated offer? If we are in favour of the idea of giving the poorest people access to health care, we do not want to be helpless in the establishment of a system favouring a general increase in prices and the insidious installation of a health offering at the discount for the majority of our citizens – a system, in other words, where quality would be reserved for those who can afford it. Respecting the French model means ensuring the same quality of care for all. With regard to the rest of the burden for people with disabilities, I note inconsistencies. In fact, the heavier the disability, the more, for example, the patient needs a sophisticated chair, the less he is reimbursed by the health insurance. According to a 2014 AFM-Telethon study, out of 477 electric chair purchase projects, only 57% of the average cost, or €23,000, was financed by social security and PCH, the disability compensation benefit. Salted, the note is moreover highly disparate according to the department of residence. The PLFSS for 2019 does not take into account these territorial disparities or the expectations of people with motor problems, who need technical help to carry out the simplest gestures: eat, walk, talk. Why does the Government wish to remove the remainder of the dependants of persons with hearing impairment and do nothing in parallel for all other motor and multi-disabled persons? Rather than helping persons with disabilities as a whole, this text deals only with certain categories of disability. That the Government wished to reimburse occupational and psychomotor care was a good thing, but that it did so only for children aged 0-6 with autism was not up to the challenge. Finally, I would like to talk about the future of home health care providers, which are becoming increasingly important in the short and medium term. This sector is suffocated by the savings requested, while in fact it contributes to reducing hospitalizations and thus spending at the expense of the community. I want to make myself the spokesperson of these professionals to ask you to act in a consistent manner, minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At the dawn of the preparation and consideration of the addiction bill, scheduled for the second half of next year, it is a clear and coherent course that our fellow citizens need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u110	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u111	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, free, protect, reconcile: this is, in three words, the thread of the Government's action, which is taking place and continues to build bridges between our commitments day after day in the bills and budgets presented before this House. The PLFSS that we are beginning to examine today reflects the strong directions that the Government has put forward in recent months and weeks. It has a dual ambition: to invest to reorganize our health system; to protect the most fragile. While we have often been stigmatized by the lack of social character of our policies, this budget demonstrates the opposite, both with regard to the elderly – whom we are all too often accused of forgetting or even abandoning – that the most modest and fragile of us, for whom we continue to upgrade the social assistance that has been committed since 2018. As all social benefits increase in 2019 and 2020, the solidarity allowance for the elderly, ASPA, a priority benefit for the Government, will be subject to an exceptional upgrading, in the sense that it has already begun in 2018. Thus, a further increase of 35 euros in 2019 will bring the minimum old age to 868 euros, with the aim of reaching 900 euros by 1 January 2020. In total, nearly 600,000 people will benefit from this measure. Thinking about our elders also means making sure they age healthy. However, today, the remaining average charge for hearing aid reaches 850 euros per ear. This important cost is at the root of giving up care and, in some cases, desocialization: how can we be with others when we no longer hear, and that we often have the shame of not having the means to get used to it? The implementation of the health plan presented at the end of September after long months of consultation between all actors, including mutuals, will enable those who need it to access a basket of fully cared for, without debt, from 2021 onwards. Providing access to new glasses or dental prosthetics is also a way to regain lost autonomy. But access to health is not limited to these medical devices. With the opening of the supplementary universal health insurance contribution to persons who are now eligible for the aid for the payment of a supplementary health insurance, we offer better protection to those for whom the cost of the care is too high or even redundant. This is an illustration of the health model we are proposing, which is based on national solidarity. For those who need to be accommodated in a residential institution for dependent seniors – EHPAD – this PLFSS provides additional resources. For persons with disabilities, the promise of the President of the Republic is kept: the allowance for adults with disabilities, the AAH, increased to 860 euros per month in 2018, will reach 900 euros in 2019, which will benefit more than 1 million people. This PLFSS is therefore in line with previous commitments. It is consistent with the Government's policy for the most vulnerable, vulnerable and vulnerable. In this way, it is an expression of our desire to improve the quality of life of these people and their loved ones, as well as the working conditions of the professionals who surround them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With this text, we can keep our heads high, look at the most fragile of us with benevolence and give a new dimension to solidarity so that everyone, regardless of their course and degree of vulnerability, can find their right place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u112	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u113	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, Alfred de Musset wrote: "The tears of the past enrich the future. Thus, the tears shed in the past on the chronic deficit in our health care system have given rise to a virtuous awareness and policy that allows us today to present a reassuring PLFSS and, above all, to consider finally the construction of a positive future, such as the accounts of health insurance, beneficiaries this year for the first time in eighteen years. Positive, yes, but at what cost, as some people like to repeat? Well, positive at the price of an assumed willingness to offer the best to all our fellow citizens, with two guiding values: prevention and investment. To prevent it is first of all to anticipate and make the courageous commitment to propose sincere and surplus accounts for the years to come, with the ambition to repay the entire social debt by 2024. That is the price of our efforts; This is the price of our work; This is the price of our policy; This is the price of the PLFSS for 2019. This prize is the assurance given to every Frenchman to be able to be cared for and accompanied, whatever his situation, his age or his pathology, the assurance that the French medico-social system gives everyone access to the latest medical innovations, the assurance to finally keep the formidable promise to guarantee the sustainability of our protective philosophy. This sustainability, the PLFSS offers to us, to our elders, but also and especially to our children. The budgetary surplus, ladies and gentlemen, accredits and confirms that the policy that we are carrying out is bearing fruit and that we can combine respect for financial commitments and benevolence to all, without discrimination, always in accordance with the reality of our time. The reality of our time is above all the medical desertification which far too many of our citizens suffer, in the rural world but also in the heart of cities. Thanks to our health system transformation strategy and my health 2022 plan, we are tackling desertification with the right tools: simple, innovative and judicious tools. This strategy was based primarily on listening and understanding to our caregivers, many of whom were affected by some weariness. The administrative overload, the difficulties of occupational transversality and, above all, the lack of legibility of their position in the course of care have gradually led patients to the accumulation of doubts, which has led to a lack of attractiveness of these professions. This disaffection is for the first time integrated into a global reflection, with the aim of improving the working conditions of caregivers. Our strategy was unanimously welcomed by the care professionals because, for the first time, they felt understood and accompanied by appropriate and concrete responses. Redeem medical time through medical assistants, coordinate care through a pivotal professional, promote the territorial health professional communities to fluidize the care path, use digital in the shared medical file to improve patient safety and information, recreate the dialogue between the city and the hospital, give priority to care through a T2A reform – activity pricing –, develop advanced practices and telemedicine, promote interdisciplinary work, value innovative experiences: these are the responses we bring through the PLFSS. This bill reassures caregivers and gives them hope, which inevitably has a positive impact on patients. Patients, we are committed to protecting them at any cost. We are keeping this commitment with the beginning of the deployment of 100% health. Many thought this promise was illusory and unrealizable because it was too ambitious. We are proud to be able to wear a PLFSS that reflects the realization of this deeply human project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u114	[[Smile]] Can we talk about it for a while, though?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u115	That's right! We could have taken on a policy of overbidding, promising ever more, for example a vaccine against lung cancer, even if it remains of the order of glamour, as vague and hypothetical as the improbable oasis that we never find in the middle of an ideological desert.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u116	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u117	To this uncertain concept, we preferred to oppose the realization of the remainder at zero charge. This reform, in conjunction with the rapprochement between the CMU-C and the ACS, will enable all French people who wish to do so to benefit from dental, optical and auditory care. The negotiated care baskets will offer high-quality documents and equipment, without having to pay a euro. The effort will be divided between the state, the professionals and the mutuals, who have committed themselves not to pass on this expenditure by raising their tariffs. The State will be vigilant and, in order to be more transparent, proposes the creation of a mutual price observatory. Because seeing well is crucial to learning, working or avoiding a fall, because eating well makes it possible to better assimilate all the nutrients necessary for healthy maintenance, because hearing well guarantees a good integration into society and delays certain cognitive declines, we have promised and realized this major medical advance that is the rest at zero charge. [[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, since, during this week of debate on the PLFSS, we are going to live in some way a history of legislative love,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u118	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] ...I could not finish my remarks started with Alfred de Musset other than by quoting his tender George Sand: "The facts are better to convince than beautiful words to soften! Also, I invite you to start the work on the PLFSS for 2019 with enthusiasm, confidence, optimism and determination. Indeed, our policy and that of the Government are based on the facts, and that is what our fellow citizens have been looking forward to for many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u120	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u121	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the nation "guarantees everyone, including children, mothers and old workers, the protection of health, material safety, rest and leisure". It is in these terms that the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, incorporated into our constitutionality block, assures the mother and the child health and rest. In reading these words, maternity leave takes on its full dimension as the first moment of rest essential to the health of the mother and the child. It is essential, both physiologically, in that it allows the woman to absorb some of her post-partum fatigue, as well as psychologically, as it is a privileged time to establish the fundamental bond of attachment between the mother and the child. Although this maternity leave is essential, not all women today benefit from it in France. In terms of public health, how can such differences between women be justified? How can we justify that the fundamental bond between mother and child, far from being natural and innate, suffers because the public authorities would not have taken the necessary steps? Every year, 18,000 self-employed women do not enjoy maternity leave with the same rights as women employees, while they have the same health needs: shorter stopping times, allowances not adapted to work, illegible information, not to mention the need to maintain a link with their clients and a certain level of turnover to ensure the sustainability of their activity. Similarly, only 58 per cent of the 1043 women farmers who are expected to receive maternity leave each year are able to be replaced and thus be able to stop the time of pregnancy. The problem of replacement is often added to that of financial resources. How can we agree to leave nearly 300 euros in the cost of a replacement month for women, even though this amount represents a considerable effort for small farms? In view of this, the President of the Republic has made a promise, which you have chosen to support, Madam Minister. I welcome the willingness to put an end to the inequalities in maternity leave that underlie the drafting of the relevant articles in the PLFSS that we are beginning to discuss. In the interests of uniform social protection, all women must have a period of incompressible and compulsory maternity leave, and the latter must be able to adapt to the specific characteristics of each woman's statutes. Thus, I can only support the measures that you are proposing, Madam Minister, including aligning the duration of maternity leave for self-employed women and women farmers with that of women employees: a minimum of eight weeks and a maximum of sixteen weeks. These new rights will be more legible, in order to better accompany the pregnancy path of these women. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition to these measures, I will make amendments to other provisions aimed at reducing the financial pressure on self-employed workers, by providing facilities for the payment of social contributions, by allowing for a gradual and capped resumption of their activity, and by improving their information on their rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Every woman has the right to this maternal time, effective and complete, singular and essential. Marie Darrieussecq writes: "Time was reorganizing around this date: the one where I will join the world from outside. So I went down into this milk bath, I clapped, floated, I got drunk from that baby's time, because later I would start thinking again, to write." For too long, women's ability to carry and deliver children has led to many of the inequalities that have developed between women and men, between girls and boys, over the centuries. The way a society organizes the maternal condition reveals something of its essence. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us live up to the ambition of equality that we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u122	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u123	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, despite the singing sounds of my voice, which might suggest the opposite, I would like first of all to reassure the audience, and to endeavour to address him in French... In the faculties of law, which I have attended for ten years as a student and then twenty years as a teacher, one professes that a budget is more than an aggregate of figures: it is also a political will, or the numerical translation of it. This is the purpose of our meeting today: to examine a budget driven by a clear and coherent will for action, oriented towards the future, progressive and solidarity, and nevertheless guided by a sense of responsibility, and quantified responsibilities. This budget, therefore, is driven by a clear and coherent will for action, which consists of working to protect the most fragile people as quickly as possible: first, it was said and repeated this evening, by significantly strengthening the EHPADs and the support of the older people, as well as the care path of the autists, with an adapted national strategy, which has been discussed on several occasions; Then, by the implementation of the remaining zero load, which has already been mentioned, and by the improvement and simplification of the devices, with the merger of the CMU-C and the ACS; Finally, by improving and adapting not only social benefits, in particular by extending maternity leave for self-employed workers, this has also been said, but also and above all, concerning the minimum old age and the allowance for adults with disabilities, or, as Thomas Mesnier pointed out, by increasing the supplement of free choice of care for families with children with disabilities. We want to protect more quickly, of course, but for a long time, by initiating the sustainable transformation of the health system through investment, prioritizing prevention and taking into account qualitative concern. With regard to prevention, the main focus will be on the redeployment and spread of medical examinations for children and adolescents over a longer period of time, while promoting information and communication. It will also extend influenza vaccination by pharmacists, protecting the continuation of experiments already initiated in 2018. The tobacco fund will be transformed into a fund to combat addictions related to psychoactive substances. In terms of quality in health care facilities, it will be necessary to switch to a package for certain chronic diseases such as diabetes and kidney failure, as well as to provide incentive funding. The sustainable transformation of the health system through investment will also be achieved by facilitating access to better-performing care, such as innovative therapies, through the early management of costs, which has also been mentioned, and by strengthening the use of generics. Beyond its commitment to clear and accountable action, the Government presents a budget guided by a strong sense of priorities and responsibilities. The main idea remains to continue to support activity and to liberate the economy, by reducing the cost of labour to promote the return of growth. As was pointed out a few moments ago, support for the activity is provided by the exemption from wage contributions on overtime worked. As for the liberation of the economy, it comes through an increase in the activity premium, a permanent reduction in social charges, on which I do not come back, and an adjustment of the participation in the national effort of the people affected by the widespread social contribution, with a view to improving social justice. A final challenge is to confirm the recovery of the accounts, which each speaker welcomed this evening, by pursuing the goal of reducing public spending and reducing the deficit, with the prospect of a return to balance of social accounts by 2020. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In short, this PLFSS will fulfil the commitments made by the President of the Republic. We launch its review in session with enthusiasm and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u124	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u125	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, at the individual level, health is considered to be the greatest of goods; At the collective level, health issues are extremely important. Being healthy is a matter of social justice, which requires equal access to care, but also through information, education, the promotion of good practices, screening, vaccination, in a word through prevention. I would like to stress this major axis of the PLFSS for 2019, of which we can be proud. It develops a policy of prevention at all ages of life, dealing with a wide range of risks and pathologies. This policy is first of all characterised by more resources. The national objective of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – is increasing by 2.5%, reaching its highest level in six years: the additional €5 billion will enable as early as 2019 to put in place structural measures for community care, to conduct innovative processes, such as the territorial occupational health communities, the CPTS, in order to give the possibility to bring health and medical-social services closer together, to establish bridges between healthcare professionals, for example between liberal doctors and hospitals, to develop therapeutic education, in particular with ASALEA – the protocol for liberal health action in teams – and to take care of the individual as a whole, as closely as possible, because prevention can only be exercised in the vicinity. The project also plans to leave T2A at all, with new ways of financing the support. Minister, you want to encourage more actively the quality, relevance of care, preventive follow-up and health pathways. Thus, as of 2019, a package will be in place for the management of diabetes and chronic renal failure, prelude to an extension to other chronic diseases in the years to come. The establishment of a health service for all health students will make it possible to carry out prevention interventions throughout the country with a dual objective: to introduce to primary prevention those who will be the health professionals of tomorrow and to enable them to intervene in the field, with the population, especially with young people, to educate, inform and prevent. The President of the Republic's flagship promise, the remaining zero-charge, i.e. the full reimbursement of eyeglasses, dental and hearing aids, is a step forward in the fight against precarious access to care. Such equipment may prevent accidents or the occurrence of diseases affecting the entire body. The scope of the fund to combat addictions – tobacco, alcohol and drugs – will be expanded with new resources corresponding to the product of flat-rate fines for cannabis use. Immunization is one of the great successes of public health. Millions of lives have been saved by this act of prevention. Last January, the Government had already made mandatory the eleven vaccines that had so far been recommended only for young children. Influenza vaccination by official pharmacists will be widespread in 2019. I would also like to mention the early management of autism and neurodevelopment disorders. The focus of government action to "protect the most vulnerable" as well as the strategy to prevent and combat poverty, especially child poverty, give rise to a series of measures that almost all fall, directly or indirectly, within the scope of prevention, since they enable everyone to have social protection, to live as well as possible in a healthy way, thus preserving his or her health capital. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In a word, as the old adage says, "prevention is better than cure." Prevention is the first level of response to the health problems of our society; It is also a priority of the National Health Strategy 2018-2022. This PLFSS is the first budget translation. It has strong commitments to develop in our system, which is still very focused on healing, a collective culture of prevention, and to encourage everyone to take better control of their health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u126	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u127	You have, Madam Minister, made the prevention and fight against inequality a priority. Prevention is inseparable from the fight against inequality – the fight against "inequalities of destiny", as the President of the Republic rightly said – and against social determinism. It is based on attention to each other and on ethics that respect the principles of justice, equity, autonomy and solidarity. This concern, this attention, it is by example that we must continue to manifest them. "The value of the examples is better than that of the precepts," said Mr. de La Rochefoucauld. The PLFSS for 2019 is, in this respect, in continuity with the previous one. I cannot deal with it without recalling some of the key measures adopted last year: the increase in tobacco taxes, when France has 73000 deaths due to its consumption, the extension of compulsory vaccination or the fight against poverty, with the upgrading of the minimum old age and the allowance for adults with disabilities, the increase of the ceiling on child-care aid for single-parent families and the measures in favour of EHPADs. The text also included measures to support economic activity: the transformation of the CICE and the CITS into a reduction in long-term burdens, the abolition of social contributions from the outset visible on the payroll and the fight against unemployment, the main social injustice. It is always in the best way to live together and the continuous improvement of healthy life expectancy while reducing the inequalities that must be read the funding bill for 2019. It is with this in mind that the plan to combat poverty presented by the President of the Republic must be understood. Yes, 2019 will follow the same path as 2018. The first is to continue to restore purchasing power through the exemption of overtime wage contributions and to support job-creating enterprises by transforming the CICE and the CITS into a reduction of expenses, but also to allow 350,000 additional pensioners' homes to benefit from the reduced CSG rate. It is also the rest of the charge zero, great social advance for those who have to resign because they do not have enough to pay for an audioprosthesis, access dental care or pay a pair of glasses. The remainder of the zero load will be accompanied by aids for a health supplement. It also means persevering in the fight against addictions, obstacles to freedom, by creating a fund to combat addictions related to psychoactive substances. Other medical and social advances, with a view to listening to families, will be extended or even initiated, such as the national strategy for autism, the improvement of maternity leave for self-employed women and women farmers, or the commitments made in the road map "age and autonomy". In concrete terms, this policy will eventually enable care to be provided in decent conditions and with respect for the dignity of persons, particularly those of advanced age, in vulnerable situations or at high risk of social decline. The PLFSS for 2019 is also an ambitious plan that aims to listen to caregivers in EHPAD and in public and private care structures, in order to involve them more closely in decision-making processes in governance, which is a fair recognition of their dedication. "Recognition" means human and financial means. This is why ONDAM will be set at 2.5% this year, compared with 2.3%, or an additional EUR 400 million. This increase will contribute to the supply and quality of care, as we face the inflation of chronic diseases, such as diabetes, kidney failure, cardiovascular diseases and neurological degeneration, which require interdisciplinarity that calls for a new paradigm, as well as increased attendance at emergency services, which requires a better articulation between city medicine and the hospital, as envisaged in the Government's plan. This project is not a "rustinage" – forgive me for neologism – but, because it was co-built with all health actors, users, associations and socio-economic actors; It's a liability project. It is all the more responsible because in 2019, for the first time since 2001, the accounts of the general scheme will tend to be balanced. This responsibility is a firm, just and united commitment to future generations not to make them bear a debt that would be unsustainable and jeopardize our health care system, one of the best in the world. We must sustain and consolidate it, by optimising the supply and quality of care, by being each and every one of the health actors, by developing preventive measures and by promoting innovations accessible to all, with respect for the dignity of everyone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, we are proud to be an active contributor to the reform of our health care system. We owe it to all our fellow citizens so that no one feels excluded from the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u128	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u129	I would like to begin by thanking the deputies who have taken note of the overall consistency of this text with regard to the commitments of the Government and the continuity in the choices underlying the PLFSS 2018 and 2019. I particularly thank Thomas Mesnier, Nathalie Elimas, Audrey Dufeu Schubert, Laurent Pietraszewski, Annie Vidal, Caroline Janvier, Julien Borowczyk and Christophe Euzet. And I will have the opportunity to come back to other interventions. First of all, we have chosen to restore lasting balance in our accounts, which ensures the sustainability of our social system – we owe it to our children. We also assume the choice of support for activity and purchasing power. A strong social policy is based on a robust economy, in which employees must be able to benefit from the fruits of their efforts. We have chosen a fundamental transformation of the health care system, giving priority to prevention – and I will return to it – and to the reorganization of the health care system and its funding. Finally, we have chosen to focus on our most vulnerable citizens. Some Members of the Group The Republicans criticized the alleged lack of structural reform. The transformation of the health system is a far-reaching global reform. No one had dared to touch both the hospital, the city care, the pricing methods and the territorial organization. The anti-poverty plan is also an in-depth reform of the support of the most vulnerable in that it addresses the inequalities at the root. We are working on a great law on loss of autonomy and old age for next year. We are preparing a structural reform of our pension system. These are structural reforms that cover immense areas of our social protection. Some have tried me to lack ambition in terms of prevention. We must dare, when we know the courageous measures that I defended last year, whether it is the increase in tobacco or the compulsory vaccination! Others regret the lack of readability of prevention funding, which is indeed complicated to reveal. Why? Because prevention is funded in several ways. Thus, institutional prevention is financed by national or departmental funds and programmes. In 2017, the appropriations allocated to it had increased by 4% compared to 2016 to reach nearly €6 billion. Non-institutional prevention accounts for more than €9 billion in 2016. In addition to city care, hospital care, and drugs or medical devices that operate in the field of prevention, such as the reimbursement of vaccines, account must also be taken of all specific preventive consultations, for children and adolescents, on dental care or cancer screening, as well as non-specific consultations for which doctors are paid under the ROSP – remuneration for public health objectives. In total, therefore, funding for prevention amounts to EUR 15 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] I will mention the prevention funds that are the subject of institutional funding: FNPEIS, the national fund for prevention, education and health information, managed by CNAM, the National Health Insurance Fund, which has 379 million euros; the tobacco fund, which will benefit from the proceeds of the taxes to the tune of EUR 100 million; the appropriations of the programme 204 of the Ministry devolved to the health agencies Institut national du cancer et Santé publique France, one of the tasks of which is prevention; IRFs, regional intervention funds managed by RHAs, regional health agencies, of which 15% of the appropriations, or EUR 515 million, are intended for prevention; in the AT-MP branch, the national fund for the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases, managed by the CNAM, whose budget we are doubling this year. In short, all of my policy is towards increasing the resources devoted to prevention: FNPEIS will see its resources increase by 20%; the resources of the tobacco fund increase from EUR 30 million to EUR 100 million; the increase in IRF credits is 3.3%, one point more than the ONDAM; Finally, I repeat, the funds of the AT-MP branch are doubled, from EUR 50 million to EUR 100 million. This is an ambitious prevention policy: no one can sue this Government for not making prevention a top priority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, some Members, including Mr Lurton, deplored the absence of a family policy. As soon as I took office, I indicated that my priority was the situation of the most disadvantaged children and families. In 2018, Mr.Lurton, I increased the amount of child care assistance for single-parent families, of which they are known to be the poorest in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u130	It's social policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u131	Together with Olivier Noblecourt, the interdepartmental delegate for preventing and combating child and youth poverty, as well as with all associations, including family associations, we have worked to identify priority needs to improve the situation of families. The strategy we presented last September 13 is the result of this work: it is multifaceted, it does not make the choice of a single vector or of any service. However, it is effective because it aims to take concrete action on the difficulties faced by these people. As part of the poverty reduction strategy, €175 million from my ministry's budget will be used to support the children of the poorest families. The funds of the CNAF National Social Action Fund will increase by 10 per cent over the period 2018-2022 and will be directed towards crèches in the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. All these funds are dedicated to supporting families. Our policy is therefore truly coherent. Moreover, our policy is not limited to combating poverty, even if this dimension is central. We are attentive to societal developments and the needs of families. On this subject, Mrs Elimas, we agree with your proposals. We will increase child care assistance for parents of disabled children, and this will be paid to parents of children over the age of three without any minority until the actual school year. With regard to premature and hospitalized children, Mr Mesnier, we will pay attention to the proposal to be made by the majority group; you mentioned the possibility of responding to the situation of these families in difficulty by extending the duration of paternity leave. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Many of you have asked me about 100% health on the basis of an article recently published in the press. First of all, I am pleased that we are referring to the subject because it has not been dealt with by the opposition in questions to the Government. It is no doubt that this reform is very consensual and that the health ministers who preceded me have all dreamed of doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u132	Be serious, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u133	As for the press article, according to the information available to me, it comes from a private insurance broker. Who will benefit from the alert about the price of additional health care, if not insurance brokers? I wish some of you had done this analysis. Nor is it annoyed that this article was released on the day of the presentation of the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u134	So the reporters wouldn't do their job, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u135	It wasn't a reporter's article!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u136	In short, this reform was built with complementary health care and negotiated for many months with professionals. Complementary health care providers are committed, with us, to controlling contributions and making their contracts more transparent and readable. I understand that this commitment is being fulfilled. I will do so, knowing that the next follow-up committee will take place in December. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to recall that it is first and foremost compulsory health insurance that will bear the cost of the reform: 750 million euros out of the billion we give back to the French, three quarters of the budget allocated to this reform. We have planned to accompany the reform over three years, so that the health supplement can absorb the additional cost of 250 million euros by the natural increase in their premiums – the one they practice each year on the basis of the increase in health costs. That is the commitment they have made, and I affirm that it will be fulfilled. And then, for all those who do not currently use a health supplement – we know that 5% of French people give up a supplement, especially the most difficult people – we will create a supplement costing less than EUR 1 a day. It will be intended for all those whose income is less than 1000 euros per month. Today, 1.2 million people have access to complementary health care; With this new system, simplified, the figure could reach 3 million. I would like to point out that we will return EUR 1 billion to the French. The people who will benefit most from the rest of the zero dependent will of course retirees, first concerned with glasses, hearing aids and dental prostheses. I come to the remarks you made about the "My Health 2022" plan. I have obviously placed the hospital at the heart of my concerns, because its difficulties are symptomatic of the current dysfunction of our health system. The challenge, of course, is to better structure community care. I therefore presented a global ambition, that of the plan "my health 2022". In the PLFSS, we put all the budgetary measures of the plan to the vote of parliamentarians. But, in order for the reform to be complete and deployable, we will obviously need another piece of legislation in 2019, notably on the gradation of care and the reform of health studies, since not all aspects of the reform have budgetary implications. Therefore, to sum up the "my health 2022" plan to the measures in this FSLP is to ignore the bill that I mentioned, already scheduled. On the other hand, I would like to point out that ONDAM's progress will be set at 2.5% and will thus reach its highest level in six years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u137	Of course! The others didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u138	You who were deputy secretary general of the Élysée at the time, Mr Vallaud, you know that this rate is well above the average of the progressions of ONDAM during the last quinquennium – moreover, Mr Vallaud left, no doubt because he did not want to hear it... The PLFSS provides for measures for the structuring of city care, including the financing of the CPTS. You have claimed, Mr Door, that the resources allocated to the CPTS should be multiplied by ten. I thought the Republican Group was concerned about budgetary discipline,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u139	That was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u140	...but I see that all your proposals would result in an increase in expenditure. I would also like you to tell me, during the discussion, where you thought you would save money. We have planned to give doctors more time, to organize more collective work. I will have to introduce an amendment in order to speed up the negotiation and implementation of this reform with medical professionals. I come to the money that will benefit the hospital and the reform of the health system. The 2.5% increase in ONDAM will represent €5 billion in additional health expenditure, of which €2 billion will go directly to hospitals. Expenditure on the hospital will thus increase by 2.4 per cent, the highest rate in six years. Among these expenses, I would remind you that an additional EUR 200 million will be spent on investment aid. A total of €650 million will help health institutions invest in 2019, which is obviously a considerable effort. At the same time, we will make a profound change in the way in which funding is provided. I heard you all want to go faster on this. I am pleased to see that everyone is committed to the reform of the pricing system! We will first apply it to the management of diabetes and chronic renal failure, and then extend it to city care by 2020, as soon as we model its impact on liberal professionals, at the end of the mission led by Jean-Marc Aubert. In the PLFSS for 2020, I will introduce you to many pricing reforms, which will affect both hospital and city care.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u141	We're waiting to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u142	We will therefore diversify funding methods. The various national professional councils work on package payments and the development of coordinated care pathways. We will rely on their scientific proposals to price tomorrow's medicine differently. It is not everything in the PLFSS, as many points are the subject of treaty negotiations; reducing the reform to the few budgetary measures contained in the PLFSS is a very bad faith. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I end with therapeutic innovation. We are delivering on the commitments made by the CISC, the Health Industries Strategic Council. At the same time, we control the cost of the oldest drugs through the development of generics. The measures relating to the medicine are very balanced: some will benefit innovation; Others will help social security to save money.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u143	I now refer to the articles of the bill in the Government's text, beginning with the provisions for the 2017 fiscal year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u144	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u145	In 2016, Madam Minister, you were not exercising your current responsibilities, but some of us were already present and then voted on the PLFSS for 2017. The deficit was actually reduced in 2017 to EUR 5.1 billion, including FSV, as shown in the second table in Article 1. However, this has been possible, remember, thanks to the surplus of the old age branch, which reached nearly 2 billion euros, under the effect, let us recall, of the Woerth law of 2010. Your socialist predecessor, I remember, was pushing cocoricos and saying that the social security hole was going to be closed in 2017 – the rapporteur-general was not there at that time, for a reason that will remain between us. But the hole was not blocked; It was a glamour. So I urge you to be reasonable, because we don't know what can happen tomorrow. The PLFSS estimates for 2017 were based on poor assumptions of growth and wage bill, which led to a drift towards the deficit. The tables in section 1e r are neither disputed nor questionable, but I recall what happened, because we must be very careful in our reflections, even for the future, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u146	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u147	Article 1 aims at drawing up the social security accounts for 2017. So we're going back almost two years, as Jean-Pierre Door said. You may point out that you were not in the Government when this budget was committed. So we are about to close the accounts of your predecessors. These accounts show a reduction in the general system deficit. If we go from the point of view of public accounting, Secretary of State, you will tell me that this is a good operation. On the other hand, if we look at what has been done for the hospital, for general medicine or for our seniors, we find that the needs are not covered, as everyone can see in their ridings. Staff devote themselves entirely to their task but are unable to do so. Behind the social security budget and its figures, there is people. Our society is experiencing a reality: the ageing of the population. I regret that the funds allocated to EHPAD in the 2019 budget are not up to the stakes. The additional EUR 125 million you have announced in favour of them is an insignificant amount. According to INSEE, the number of EHPADs in France, 7400, is just 17000 euros per EHPAD. In other words, the Government's response to the marked malaise experienced by EHPAD staff – the latter led, in an unprecedented way, several strikes in 2018 – is 17,000 euros per institution, which should, at best, allow for the hiring of a part-time agent, whereas the needs are usually at least five or six agents. Minister, your budget proposal will only increase the anger expressed in many of our social and medico-social institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u148	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u149	With the discussion of the articles, we enter the heart of the PLFSS. The examination of Article 1e r gives us an opportunity to review the general scheme of the text proposed to us. More importantly, it allows us to work together on the Government's ambitions to finance social security. We welcome the return of social security accounts to balance. As you pointed out, Madam Minister, this is a first since 2001, so much so that the French and French had become accustomed to deficit social security accounts. We welcome this because these balanced accounts are a sign of a better economy; When the economy is better, the French are better. However, if we can link up the recovery of social security accounts with a better economic situation, we must remain vigilant: less prosperous periods would inevitably lead to a further widening of deficits. We do not wish to do so, but we must be careful about it. For this return to balance to be sustainable, we need to carry out real structural reforms of our social security model. Unfortunately, I do not find in this PLFSS the profound transformations that you have announced. On the contrary, savings, you realize them once again to the detriment of families. Your savings, you realize them on the backs of pensioners, to whom you bear the weight of the economic recovery, with an reckless increase in the CSG and a freezing of the pension index point. You realize your savings by opposing generations; All you will gain by doing this is retirees on the street, which is indeed a first. You also save money on the backs of health facilities, increasing the pressure on them and their staff. How can we speak of a balance of social security accounts when the public hospital records, for the first time, a deficit of around EUR 1 billion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u150	This is a second general discussion, Mr. Lurton!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u151	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u152	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u153	We are about to validate the balance tables of all the compulsory schemes of the social security base and the general scheme for the financial year 2017. It is good, in this context, to recall some data. In 2017 – it wasn't you, the minister, who was at the time sitting on the bench of the Government – 4 billion euros of savings had been demanded from the health sector. Your predecessor's management, if that would reassure you, was highly displeased by caregivers. However, in 2018, the amount of savings you are going to ask the sector is €4.2 billion and will reach €3.8 billion in 2019. I heard your answer. I agree that some things have been improved over the last six years, but when we start from scratch, it is not difficult to make progress and there is no reason to be satisfied. When will this logic of savings that has been going on for decades stop? What will be the trigger that will put an end to this policy, after years of cuts in the health insurance budget? Our hospitals have a serious deficit as a result of the budget cuts and they have been indebted to the tune of 30 billion euros – we are not talking about 30 million but about 30 billion! Overburdened emergencies, medical deserts, end-of-careers: I always report the same facts. I have referred here to sickness insurance, but this also applies to the other branches of social security, particularly the family branch. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Excuse me if you don't like it. I am a woman of conviction and you will not silence me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u155	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u156	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-23-O1032.u157	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
