ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill on housing, development and digital development (No. 846, 971, 881, 942, 944). The remaining time for discussion of this text is twelve hours and fifty-two minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 690 amendments are under discussion; eleven hours forty-nine minutes for the Republican Group, of which 1045 amendments are under discussion; four hours three minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 190 amendments are under discussion; five hours forty-nine minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, 163 of which amendments are under discussion; four hours thirty-four minutes for the Group of the European People's Party, 127 of which are under discussion; four hours twenty-seven minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 247 amendments are under discussion; one hour for non-attached Members, of which 189 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u2	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to come back to committee to answer a question that has not been sufficiently debated: does the ELAN bill meet the expectations of the French in terms of housing and land use planning? Is this bill up to the stakes? These are the issues on which we are called to debate. These issues are legitimate, as it must be noted that the Government's first budget was not a housing budget. Several decisions have sent a negative signal: the budget of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion has been cut by almost 2 billion euros, the amount of APLs has been reduced, the APLs paid to homeowners have been removed. Mr Macron must be given a certain degree of consistency in his actions, although they have been applied in a restrictive and technocratic manner, since he was already defending the end of the demand-subsidization policy when he was Minister of the economy and new cities instead of assisted housing arrangements when he was rapporteur for the Attali Committee. If the desire to amplify the housing supply shock needs to be sustained, the sharp reduction in the Pinel scheme and the zero-rate loan is precisely the opposite. This contradiction between objectives and means is a risk, in the long run, to the dynamics of real estate. As we know, in terms of housing, there is an urgent need: France has tens of thousands of homeless people, 4 million poorly housed people, 12 million people in situations of fragility vis-à-vis housing. On average, one in six Frenchmen can be estimated to be poorly housed. All French people have the right to quality housing, adapted to their family life, whether in urban or rural areas. The work on this text is to be welcomed. One can, however, regret – sorry to contradict you – the weak agreement on its provisions. A consensus conference was held, with a Speaker of the Senate who mobilized to help this majority who did not know by what end to take the subject, in a very tight timetable that did not allow to highlight the essential: what the French want for housing. However, it is the French who are involved in this bill. Let us say that the vast period of exchange opened since the APL crisis was first intended to make communication and to mask the shortcomings and delays of the majority on this sensitive issue. The work in committee has been long and thorough; However, has it resulted in a greater consensus on the method chosen? The number of amendments that we are going to examine, more than 3000, certainly shows – I agree with the minister on this point – the vitality of Parliament, but it also reflects the very relative listening to which parliamentarians have been given in committee. Rather, I saw it as a failure, because we had the opportunity, in a rather calm, rather constructive framework, to move the work forward, and the amendments that were adopted were essentially editorial, and most of them came from the majority, which does not erase the frustration of those who were not heard. The legislative obesity of the ELAN text questions. Its density is more indicative of the fear of forgetting a particular profession, a particular interest representative, than of any operational efficiency. And the committee was not the operating table for a large liposuction, even if some of our colleagues wanted to delete several articles. Let's go back to the real preliminary questions. First, is there a need for a supply shock, and for that reason the ELAN law? We agree on the supply shock, but the real estate sector, which has been affected by five new laws in recent years, was asking everything but a new law. Second question: where do the French want to live? The cartographic evidence of the employment areas prompts us to respond to the demand rather in tense or even very tense areas. But do our fellow citizens want a dense city? There is still much evidence that it is actually greener, more soberer and more sustainable. Will not the human, urban and environmental cost of excessive density be paid tomorrow by those who will not have the means to leave a city that has become unsustainable and unbearable? 50 per cent of the French, and even 62 per cent of the Francilians, dream of a small town with a preserved environment, with airy urbanism and breathable streets, or even of a village if they were not so far from their professional activity, whose place of establishment is still largely rigid and codified. The third question we have to answer: in what do the French want to live in? 80% of homeowners now live in single homes. It is on this segment that the profession is most concerned. The house, particularly peri-urban, does not have the wind in stern for those who think urban sprawl in the light of the excesses of fossil energy. But won't we say tomorrow of widespread urbanization, where spaces will be connected by more sober, cleaner and faster connections, that it is the condition of a better life? The supply of new housing is mostly collective. In addition to accessibility issues, have there been questions about the quality of the building, the quality of private and common indoor spaces? Our citizens feel that we are building less well and less sustainable. The repeated misconceptions found in the real estate projects delivered in our cities testify to a rush of real estate promotion that does not rhyme with quality. The interior spaces of dwellings are reduced under the pressure of real estate promotion, and not only under the influence of standards. Human concentration leads to the use of more common spaces and public spaces. However, we cannot ignore that the amenities and equipment usually arrive at the end of the consultation on urban projects, at the very bottom of the balance sheet, when there is still a pear for thirst to try to give a little quality of use to the inhabitants. It's not a minor subject. The text rightly addresses the issue of abuse, but what are the proposals for residents who already occupy housing, who see the city becoming dense, and who do not benefit from the new common spaces? Worse still, these people already in place see a city closing. New apartments? Inaccessible to the middle classes. The new school? Only residents of the new cooperative development area – ZAC – can access it! The new underground parking lot? It can be half empty because the lessor does not rent outside. In the absence of deep reflection on the notion of human concentration implied by the current trend, we come to a law essentially of adjustments, which the builders observe with a good eye but which the great family of urbanism, architecture, social mix has in the viewfinder. In spite of this, it must be recognised that the strategy developed for housing pursues objectives which the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans share: building more housing at a lower cost, reforming the social housing sector, saving our average cities from economic decline. Some of your proposals go in the right direction, especially those that will have the immediate effect of reducing the tension in the real estate market: the mobility lease; the supervision of the number of days of rental of main residences via a tourist rental platform or the fight against abuse of building permits. This text also marks, I would like to stress, a significant step forward in the fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group and the GDR and FI groups]] I hear some complain about the length of the debates we are going to have in the ELAN law, the number of amendments tabled. We are probably going to spend a few hours on the issue of unworthy housing and sleep merchants, even though a few weeks ago we could have settled this issue with the GDR Group's bill, with proposals that had been put on all the benches of this House, including by some of our colleagues and myself, which would have allowed us to find ourselves on an equally ambitious text, even as amended by the Government, and to avoid having to go back to it in debates that you sometimes consider too long. However, I welcome the inclusion in this bill of several proposals, persisting in the belief that we need a precise definition of the sleeper, on which we need to rework, and which would better sanction these actions, particularly in the event of recidivism. We mean the presumption of income attributable to sleep merchants, the extension from 5 to 10 years of the maximum period during which a convicted sleep merchant would be prohibited from making any direct or indirect purchase of real estate, and in the same way, the obligation of the judge to impose additional penalties for confiscation of property, even if we firmly believe that confiscation should be systematic in order to be more effective. Finally, the obligation for professional condominium trustees to report to Tracfin the transactions carried out by the owners when they have strong reason to believe that they have a sleep merchant activity is an innovative solution, which can be hoped to help identify this type of crime. While on certain measures such as those I have just mentioned, Members of the Republican Group believe that there is progress, we regret that, on others, the method used does not meet the objectives. The first objective of the Government is to build more, better and cheaper. Building more is a good thing when you know that construction indicators can turn red while construction starts are falling in 2018 and the outlook is even worse for 2019. Building cheaper is a laudable objective, as housing is by far the first item of household expenditure in France. Let's focus on the third element of the triptych: "build better". The only question that should guide us is: what do the French want? They want accommodation with local shops, schools, public services, green spaces. They also want individual habitat, for which they could become owners. They do not necessarily aspire to overdensity. Let us not forget that it is from the inadaptability of real estate to the needs of the population that the real estate vacancy arises. Why not take advantage of it to create non-relocable employment, a sector that would prepare the end of the toddler? The locals are yelling at the concrete of our cities. Then let's prepare the end of the baby! Hemp, straw and wood are economic levers in our territories that would usefully link the regions with the objectives of the future. But the reality of this bill is the lack of trust in the territories. Is it possible to build better by disregarding the views of mayors on urban planning operations? The municipality is forgotten about the proposals for urban planning and development projects. Several provisions in your project testify to a movement of recentralisation, or even of technocratisation, which increasingly keeps local elected officials and citizens away from the decision. The partnership planning project and the large urban planning operation dedicated to the renovation are interesting tools, but the mayors are the forgotten ones of these provisions and some operations can be carried out without obtaining their opinion, which is contrary to all the governances of the territories in France, where an agglomeration, a department, a region can rarely carry out a project to its end, carry out a consultation to the end, without the support of a proactive mayor who carries out the project. Yet it is the mayors who know best the realities and sensitivities of our territories. Their opinion should be taken into account all the more as you encourage them to build housing, even though they will not in return have the financing of the city of tomorrow. They are the ones who take care of the new inhabitants, who support the public facilities, with resources that will be in decline, because the new building bases created by the constructions will not be compensated, in particular because of the abolition of the housing tax. So yes, we must reaffirm our confidence in the actions of local elected officials, in the name of the free administration of communities. Is it possible to build better by totally disregarding the architects by an unhealthy circumvention of the law on the control of public works and its relationship to the control of private works, known as the MOP law? While positive law guarantees the presence of an architect from the beginning to the end of the construction of a building, from design to the conduct of the construction site, this bill provides for the disappearance of architectural competitions at the time of the construction of social housing. Architects are the guarantors of architectural quality. Without their input, there is a significant risk to the quality of tomorrow's habitat. It should be recalled that, in 1977, the Architecture Act was designed to compensate for what had been done too quickly in the construction sector. Neither Thibault Bazin nor I were born, but the anger of the architects must be heard: housing is not a mere economic product for the French. It is a use value, or even a very short value. I do not forget, of course, that some sensitive cities are the product of architectural utopias little in tune with the terrain: the Grande Borne in Grigny or the Courtillières in Pantin are striking examples of what the state probably did worse with some architects at the time. But today, in a vast movement of decentralization that we call for of our wishes, we pass from the men and women of art will lead us straight to the standardization of constructive processes, facades or even commons, leading everyone to live everywhere and nowhere: a dangerous standardization for the social cohesion of tomorrow. You will not achieve your quantitative objectives, let alone qualitative issues. Let's go further. Is it possible to build more without improving the confidence of owners and investors in the future? While notary fees would have to be reduced for the acquisition of a principal residence – these costs that hold back real estate acquisitions despite low rates – there is talk of an upward trend in the tax on transfer costs. Of course, it is not on the agenda, since the Government has put it under the carpet... But these rights of transfer, which have already increased mechanically in recent years by the cost of construction, could be an additional obstacle to mobility and to the objectives of circulation of a heritage which is known to be frozen. I know, Mr Mézard, that you will answer: "Departments! " And I also know that your political friends, in particular, are asking for the increase of transfer fees for consideration – DMTOs. To refinance local departments and communities, let us instead focus on the waste generated by successive territorial reforms without any effect on the rationalization of public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u4	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u5	In this uncertainty of territorial rapprochements, I cannot help but mention again the embolism of the capital-Métropole in Île-de-France. While the region accounts for 20 per cent of construction starts, the over-administration and stacking of costly strata are not conducive to the confidence of elected officials, partners or even promoters, and therefore to the construction of housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u6	We're gonna get rid of the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u7	Please, ladies and gentlemen, no questioning! Only the speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u8	Start by preserving the communes! The French are attached to their housing; and when they are lucky enough to be able to access rental investment, they are sometimes held back in their... momentum by various repetitive facts referring to owners injured by abusive occupations. I would have liked the Law Committee, of which I am a member, to take up additional items that would go further to resolve the problems of squatting, illegal occupation of apartments or houses, and difficult relations between owners and tenants. To restore the trust of the owners, the lease would have to be a real contract that protects the lenders from unpaid rents. The owner does not have to bear the unpaid payments of a negligent or indelicate tenant alone. That is why we must improve sanctions against the wrong tenants and protect those who are in good faith. The owners are too often alone in the face of unpaid rents: it is necessary to facilitate the breach of the lease by providing more flexible conditions to separate themselves from a tenant who, in bad faith, does not pay his rents. For example, after six months of unpaid payments, the lease could be terminated without a court order – on the State's charge of relocating the tenant who was in good faith. In order to facilitate access to housing, it would also have been possible to offer investors an "affordable rent" contract to transfer part of social housing to individual initiatives against a tax advantage, which would free up rental areas. The law should also be reviewed to ensure that it freezes the destination of goods, making it more flexible. Today, even if the text tries to lighten them, the rules are too heavy, urban planning has to become more plastic – it is not a dedication to the PVC lobby – and more mobile. Let's go to social housing reform. The restructuring of social housing is necessary, but as envisaged, it involves several risks. For example, it creates a form of instability for social donors who see their financial balances weakened. The announced mergers of social housing organizations will slow down the projects. Negotiations between agencies with a view to their merger, and then after it, will create a form of attentism in current and future projects. It will discuss the choice and remuneration of directors; the alignment of the compensation schemes of the agents who work there; the shared governance between the elected representatives who will have to sit there; the representativeness of the communities; and the central question of proximity. In the meantime, this will mean fewer renovations of existing buildings and fewer constructions. Donors will not give priority to their social park. Similarly, it is feared that the sale of social housing will become only a lucrative activity, among others, far from the spirit advocated by the law. The Republican Group has long held that social housing must no longer be a dwelling for life. An HLM housing must not be assigned ad vitam aeternam. Priority neighbourhoods are experiencing difficulties, to which the confinement of social housing may contribute by creating geographical specialization. That is why we support your willingness to examine the financial situation of the occupants of the leased social housing. Nevertheless, we would have liked to see stronger measures taken to ensure that when tenants have resources that exceed rent ceilings, they leave their homes so that others can access them. Mobility within the social park, which is a major issue, must be strengthened to allow every Frenchman to follow a real residential path and, if possible, to become one day owner – an ideal, a security that we do not hear in your speeches. The review of this text is also part of the current policy for the suburbs. At a few interns, we have not heard anything to combat ghettoization, which would allow a review of the law on urban solidarity and renewal – SRU. Is the SRU law fulfilling its mission? We can consider that there is a fairly broad consensus, including among mayors of political tendencies that did not support the SRU law at the time, to build social housing and make efforts that have never been made in the past. But it is increasingly inapplicable. Secretary of State, you yourself have spoken of the "aberrations" of the SRU law in the press. While many of us share this view, the bill does not address this point at all. It does not create this ceiling of social housing, which we called for in our amendments, for those cities where the rate of social housing is rising. It would be the sine qua non to deghettoize our suburbs. The Île-de-France region has implemented an anti-ghetto system of ending public financing of social housing in municipalities that have too many. We must find suburbs where all social classes meet, where the middle classes stay and return. There is a song by Renaud that I love very much, "In my HLM". It's a very beautiful song, but completely over-year. In the course of the lyrics, in fact, you discover the young dynamic setting, the cop, the student, the foreign family,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u9	And the racist too?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u10	...bref, all the profiles that have deserted our neighborhoods today. We are facing a rise in discrimination, which has reached its peak in neighbourhoods that we have allowed to ghettoize, to communitize, and where some have been allowed to win territories, even consciences, at the cost of a real danger for our country. It is not too late to loosen the stranglehold of the SRU law, not so much to face up to an ideological debate on the definition of a maximum rate of social housing, but to allow the municipalities to adapt with the prefects their trend of housing construction and to reason in triennal flows. This is much more ambitious than the target of 40,000 sales per year of HLM housing, which will not bring back the middle classes and will not increase purchasing power in the suburbs. This is 1% of the national social park. This is a laudable objective, but it is insufficient. With regard to the middle classes, what is being done for the French who are not owners and who do not have access to social housing, for those middle classes for whom offers are lacking and who do not have easy access to property? Social housing has locked a lot of people in the rental. When, in the past, people could one day become owners, today many of them are forced to remain tenants at the time of their retirement. We must also work to improve the living environment and revitalize the city centres. We support the legal framework for the revitalization of the Territory, but we expected more concrete information on the means deployed for these projects. It would be useful to provide for a strengthening of the engineering capacity of local and regional authorities. Moreover, the emerging trade in the presence of customers and purchasing power in the heart of the city, what if cities depopulate their middle class and housing is concentrated in only tense areas and employment areas? Fostering the life of the city centres cannot be achieved without addressing the issue of taxation, which is today an important obstacle to the establishment of our artisans and traders. In the ELAN project, there is a very small "n". Entitled this bill "ELA" would certainly have been less likely... This little "n" seems to mean "digital". However, we did not mention in our committee work the future of connected housing, the question of accessibility through digital technology, home automation. These are major issues on which, at some point, we will have to adapt our legislative framework. The digital component of this bill does not take this digital reality into account. There is a lack of projection in the future. Indeed, the debate should be prolonged to anticipate the regulatory aspects of these platforms that are developing around the world, including in France, and show the ambitious objective of selling real estate in less than 48 hours. Will the use of data be open and transparent? What impact will this "uberization" of housing and the relationships between sellers and buyers, owners and tenants have on the closed, standardised and taxed circuits of the real estate transaction? Let me also mention one major topic: the famous "smart city", a connected city that is being promoted today. For the moment, our fellow citizens have only apprehended it from the perspective of the capture of their personal data. Recurrent polemics about the installation of so-called smart electricity meters show the shortcomings of our thinking and the delay taken to build a connected city, but respectful of individual behaviors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we must be lucid: this is a technical text that lacks boldness, where certain common-sense measures were omitted, evaded or postponed. The Government's commitment not to add standards to that text was welcome, but the removal of existing standards remained too weak. This text does not propose any reasoning on housing, as it does not relate to the city and demographic changes. In committee – or, more specifically, in the first phase of the examination in committee, because of course, there will be a second one following the vote on this motion! – we have done constructive work; You have indicated, gentlemen, that certain points deserve to be reworked, but we cannot believe that they have been reworked with seriousness, consultation and envy in a week and a half. As it stands, this text is neither an evolution nor a revolution for us. For these reasons, together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we ask that the bill be re-examined, re-examined and re-coordinated with parliamentarians and professionals – including forgotten professionals such as architects or social donors – and more generally with the French, the great forgotten of this law. After a broader debate on housing, the city and France of tomorrow, we will be able to come back to the national representation and give the real impetus that is lacking to the construction of housing in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u11	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Reda, you have raised a lot of issues and we are coming out of many hours of discussion, which have always kept a positive and constructive tone, but I would like to answer you with a number of points. The first of your criticisms concerns the method: you say that we have not sufficiently coordinated our project, nor consulted stakeholders. But the text does not date from the consensus conference – a completely new phenomenon – since it was passed on to all parliamentarians and professionals even before the start of legislative work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u14	I do not have a great memory of parliamentary work, but I think this is the first time that this has happened. Prior to this, consultations were held with professionals, who made more than 2600 proposals. The commitment to consultation with the French is rooted in us and we had consulted them well; They returned 25,000 responses with contributions to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u16	As you do not agree with some of the points in the philosophy of the text, you can say that this consultation and consultation did not take place; But it is not because we have disagreements that our majority did not have the process of starting from the voice of the French. On the contrary, the first thing we did with Jacques Mézard when we came to the ministry last August was to consult with our fellow citizens. I repeat: I found the quality of the debates in committee remarkable, and it was honesty and precision that underpinned all our discussions. Indeed, housing has the characteristic of touching daily while remaining a very technical subject. But what you said about architects is incorrect: these professionals do a great job and you obviously have to keep them, but you know very well that what makes them indispensable is the code of urban planning. And this law does not in any way affect this code, simply introducing more freedom into the relationship between the contractor, the contractor and the company, without calling into question the role, weight and necessity of the architects. Secondly, you rightly wonder what housing and the city of tomorrow are. But with all the respect I have for the ELAN law, in which we have been very involved, our action is not limited to it. We have done and continue to do many other things that are not in the legislative domain. You are right to wonder about the opportunity to put everything together tomorrow; I am a water and forest engineer, and my attachment to wood construction is intense. For example, we have decided to amend the E+C- regulations, which you are familiar with – this very technical regulation, which was a real mechanism for the construction of wood. In September, a new "wood construction plan" was signed to develop the activity in this area; We did the same with the hemp you mentioned. You were also talking about the renovation – Mr Bazin spoke a lot about this – but this majority has allocated €1.2 billion to strengthen the action of the National Housing Agency, ANAH, in favour of the renovation. Of course, this is not included in this law, since it is a matter of appropriations voted earlier. The connected building, which you also approach, depends on the ability to bring digital; gold – you can recognize it! – precisely, we have signed agreements with digital operators, changing approaches and investing an unprecedented €3 billion in them. We even went further by signing a commitment with 250 housing stakeholders – developers, builders, developers – last December to promote home automation. Nor does this fall within the scope of this law: the law cannot do everything, but many actions are carried out in parallel. You evoke the setting of life; But we consider it essential! If we wanted this bill so much not only to be about housing, but also about housing, planning and digital technology, it is not only to give the chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs a lead for his introductory speech, but above all to ensure that tomorrow's housing is seen as part of a whole: the living environment. That is why we have developed the plan "Action coeur de ville", that the Caisse des dépôts is launching the Bank of the Territories and that we are putting 5 billion euros, on a quinquennium scale, in the revitalization of the city centres. That is why we are creating the National Territorial Cohesion Agency, which will provide engineering support. [[Mr. Robin Reda spoke with Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who had come to his side.]] Thirdly, Mr President: I am always struck by the ability of some of you, on this side of the House, to oppose each other. You always oppose the territories between them; but where do you see in the text... Mr. Member, may I take your attention for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u17	I have a new friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u18	[[Smile]] I see the alliances are forming, but I'm asking you two minutes, Mr. President Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u19	It's kind of like home!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u20	Excuse me, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u21	Please! Why always oppose each other's territories? The text rewrites the codes to introduce many simplifications in terms of layouts. A report earlier said that in the law, the word "simplification" appeared more than eighty times; We were criticized, but I am proud of it, especially since this simplification involves not only the most urban areas, but the whole of the country. If tomorrow it is simpler, faster, less expensive to build an individual house, it is very good – and this text allows it, after others. Indeed, the construction code had already been revised in the law for a state in the service of a trust society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Similarly, why oppose landlords to tenants? Mr Bazin has often advertised for the call to the owners that I made some time ago – and I thank him very much – but why oppose them? It's because we make speeches like these that in the end we have so many vacations and so many owners who don't want to rent their property. I will give you a specific example: you finish this by asking yourself how to reassure the owners and propose to create a system of moderate rents. But this system already exists; It's rental intermediation. Our majority voted to finance 40,000 intermediations; the very object of the gallery where I made this appeal to the tenants – I am sure that Mr Bazin will be able to pass it on to you! – was to say that not all the owners are wealthy and the tenants, people having for hobby to degrade apartments. But let us imagine that you do not trust and that we cannot recreate a society based on this principle; at least, if you are a landlord, give the keys to your apartment to associations, which provide you with rent and rehabilitation of the property at the end of the rental! I say this in a very constructive way: let us stop this debate where owners and tenants are opposed. It is not a law in favour of the owners, nor of the tenants, but a law to combat the vacancy. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As far as social housing reform is concerned, let me tell you that on the SRU, you are quoting a word out of a sentence, which I begin by saying that we must keep everything, absolutely all the ambition of this text. On this point, I was totally consistent during the debates. You say that it is not possible to introduce lucrative activity into social housing; It is surprising that this debate was held in committee because Mr Bazin tabled an amendment proposing that the carrier companies should no longer be HLM companies, but limited companies which could therefore benefit from a remuneration of capital. It has always been opposed: social housing money must remain in social housing. Under no circumstances should speculation be allowed in this area; Let us be very precise and firm on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Rather than refer the text back to committee, I hope that we can continue the debate in this spirit. We have before us long days and long nights of rich work that will allow us to make the accommodations of tomorrow that you call your vows – a wish that I deeply share.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u22	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u23	Despite all the pleasure I had in seeing Mr Reda forty hours in a row, day and night, I think that the bulk of the work that had to be done in committee has been done. I am very looking forward to starting work in the Chamber; It will probably have a different dimension and will further enrich the text. I think that the committee has worked enough for the time being and this referral to committee does not seem indispensable to me, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u24	We are all very impatient! On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote of the various groups. Mrs Lise Magnier, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u25	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, ministers, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, as in the case of the motion to reject this bill, we have listened carefully to the arguments of our colleague Reda, who is asking for this bill to be referred to committee. We have heard them, but we do not share them, for two reasons. Firstly, without going back to what I have already said, we cannot wait any longer: the housing, development and digital situation in France is such that we must urgently and quickly build and implement a genuine global and structural policy. The Government today has a rare opportunity to present us with its vision and strategy, while we, as deputies, have to propose the changes that we feel are necessary. Secondly, the commission has been working on this bill and we cannot block all of this work and all of the amendments to the bill, which have been put to the vote of our colleagues. We will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u26	Mr François Pupponi, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u27	I support the motion for referral to committee tabled by Mr Robin Reda for two reasons. First, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, during the forty hours of examination of this text in committee, you have repeatedly told the opposition members that their questions were interesting, that they should be discussed again. We met again, indeed, to discuss some points, but on some others, the dialogue you announced did not take place. On some questions, you said, "We need to see each other again. But we have not seen each other again – I am thinking in particular of the noise exposure plan and the coastal law. 2700 amendments were tabled in committee, more than 3000 in the sitting: this shows that this text has not been completed, that we must continue to work. You should, Mr. Secretary of State, agree to hear what some more experienced people have to say to you. During the debate on the finance bill, we warned you that it would be impossible to implement the decline in personalized housing assistance and rents on January 1. You told us: "If you see, it will be done. And it's not done yet! We warned you that 2017 would be an exceptional year when it comes to housing production, but that in 2018, according to all the players in the sector, the machine was likely to stop. It is not the members of the opposition who announce it to you, but the professionals; And you keep saying, "It's all very well, Madame Marquise! » We warn you, we urge you to be careful. It is true that there are many things we did wrong when we were in the majority: we are aware of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u28	It's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u29	But there is one thing we have done right: we have managed to revive housing construction at the end of the previous legislature. You don't have to break what works well: that's what you're doing! If we ask to refer this text back to committee, it is not to obstruct it. The opposition groups tabled fewer amendments than the majority: 250 for the New Left Group, 250 for the GDR Group, or a total of 500 out of the 3,000 amendments tabled on this text. The majority have tabled nearly 900 amendments in committee: this shows that there is a problem! Two last remarks: your majority is not the first to make consultation. When, with the minister delegated to the city François Lamy, we reformed the politics of the city, we did so after hours and hours of consultation, discussion, dialogue and listening with the actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u30	With all the neighborhoods that went on active watch, there's nothing to pavoise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u31	Concertation is therefore in no way an innovation of your majority. Mr Secretary of State, you say that you do not want to give social housing to private funds. How can you say that, when your bill is about allowing the block sale of HLM housing to private companies? If it's not called privatizing social housing, then what is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u32	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] Selling in bulk to private companies isn't privatizing for you? But then what do you call it? You're in denial; All you do is rehearse the chorus: "It's all very well, Madame Marquise! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u35	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u36	I am the one who is taking the floor for this explanation of vote, so that my group's speaking time does not decrease: you know this subtlety of scheduled legislative time. I think you're very nervous, colleagues! If you jump backwards dangerously when you first hear the word "privatisation", then you will enjoy it by hearing me, especially as I can speak for a long time. So let's keep it to a more normal relationship. Some have tried to give this discussion a certain raise of tone: I will say just now why it seems so important to me to stay at this level. I fully agree with an argument put forward by our colleague François Pupponi: if the opposition groups on the left of this House had tabled as many amendments as the majority groups, then we would be talking about obstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u37	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u39	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] This is an interesting novelty: the majority obstruction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u40	You've already talked about obstruction for less than that. You have tabled more than a thousand amendments; For our part, we have only deposited a hundred of them, and we consider that to be enough. No shams, no shams: if we decided to vote on this motion to refer to committee, it was not that we thought we could convince you of anything in committee. If it were possible, it would have already been done! The fate of our amendments, on the contrary, shows that the majority remains faithful to its logic. With this in mind, ideas are fluffy. It is normal, basically, since you believe in the virtue of spontaneity, of confrontation, in a word of the organization by the market: you are only applying this system to yourself. Our logic is totally different from yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u41	Who knew?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u42	You believe that there is a magic spring that would be enough to free – that is the word you use in any way – so that houses, buildings, in general joy and contentment, spontaneously flow out of the earth. We absolutely do not share this belief, and we believe that this bill will have the opposite effect. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our intellectual tradition considers that it is rather the law, the state, collective property and the general interest that contribute to happiness, not the absurd mechanisms of the law of the strongest. That is why we will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee because we have not been able to reach our ends by voting on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u43	We'd have to come to committee, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u44	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u45	The Communist Group will vote on this motion for referral to committee. To illustrate the confusion, the confusion of the majority on this text, I will take a few examples. First of all, the political calendar is particularly abscons: a few days before this ELAN bill was submitted to us, the debate on the famous Borloo report has been evacuated, no more or less, without any consequences on housing in general and social housing in particular, particularly in popular cities. This haste alone would justify referring this bill back to committee, in order to enrich it with certain recommendations of Jean-Louis Borloo, whose consideration was deferred by the President of the Republic until next July. Secondly, you said, Mr Minister for Territorial Cohesion, that there was a need to find a balance in the transfer of powers from the municipalities to the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation, the EPCIs. As far as we are concerned, we consider that this balance is seriously weakened, because the mayors' control of urban planning and housing policy in the territory of their commune is threatened: it is a second sufficient reason to refer this text back to committee. Finally, with regard to the environment, we have heard the legitimate concerns expressed by the Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development about the impact of this text on the coastal law. These concerns justify for themselves the referral of this text to the committee, because it seems to us that on this crucial point the debate has essentially been evacuated. I come to the landscape in general, and to the urban landscape in particular. The rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs has valiantly defended the role of architects in this area. It seems to us that the bill, on this point, should be reviewed. Another point that has yet to be clarified, even from your own admission, although little has been said: the housing of disabled people, people with reduced mobility. In the course of the discussions, you have substituted the principle of scalability for the question of accessibility, while you yourself have recognized that this principle is particularly ill-defined. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For all these reasons, and for those that Stéphane Peu has developed, we will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u46	The next speaker is Mr Nicolas Demoulin, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u47	I listened to Mr. Reda's speech; During the 30 minutes it lasted, I sought to understand what arguments justified this request for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u48	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] If you don't understand, we can ask him to do it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u49	I've picked up two of them. The first is that the Minister and the Secretary of State are not listening enough. However, we have debated for more than forty hours in committee, and everyone agrees that they have taken the time to answer all the questions. Secondly, Mr Reda acknowledged that our approach was constructive, and I thank him for that. Why, then, ask that this text be referred back to committee? It's over my head!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u50	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u51	I start in politics: you will explain to me how you work. What I remember from these forty hours in committee is that 2500 amendments were discussed and 400 adopted. These are not just figures: this means that the Government's text has been enriched, without adding any additional constraints – this is important. What I appreciate with this piece of legislation is that for once, it is not a bill for the owners, nor for the tenants, but a balanced bill that will allow housing to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u52	We'll explain where the imbalances are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u53	Mr Reda's diagnosis is correct: in fact, housing has unfortunately been ill for several years. The Republic on the move is not responsible for what has happened in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u54	It's too easy! We're not responsible either!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u55	We have had open discussions with Mr Little, Mr Pupponi, Mr Benoit – whom I do not see in the Chamber –, Mrs Taurine and Mr Bazin: I would like to thank them for that. Finally, I would like to quote the latter, who said that they were waiting a lot for the discussion of the text in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u56	It must have been late!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I do not wish, Mr Bazin, to exasperate your impatience, and to conclude my speech by announcing that the La République en marche Group will vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u58	Mr Thibault Bazin, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u59	He will call on us to vote against the motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u60	You're dreaming, Mr. Bridey! Robin Reda has just asked some good questions, to which the bill, as it stands, does not provide answers. No, Mr Secretary of State, we do not oppose the territories, on the contrary: by avoiding overdensification in a tense area and by combating rural desertification, we are betting on social cohesion. The Republican Group, like other political groups – because we do not have a monopoly on good ideas – has made proposals to help you meet the challenges of housing, planning and digital technology in France. To build in a sustainable way, we must first lay solid foundations. Because the soil is different on the territories, and there are cracks in some places, these foundations need to be adapted: they need to be deeper in some territories than in others. Let us be frank: the problem is what is not in your bill. She's missing a preamble, as she showed last fall! If you limit yourself to the provisions of this bill, you will fail to achieve the goals you set yourself. We cannot be satisfied only with technocratic measures. Mr. Pupponi and Mr. Few had the chance to see you again. You have asked us in committee to withdraw amendments so that we can work with you again. You told us that your teams would contact us about this, but that was not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u61	That's not beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u62	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u63	That is why I said that I was waiting for this text to be discussed at the sitting. I then thought that in the meantime there would be new preparatory exchanges. But these have not taken place: under these conditions, the examination in session cannot be passed. We are ready to work with all groups, and also with non-registrants ("Ah! On the benches of the LaREM group) which also have good ideas. Minister, Secretary of State, you are stalemate in the debate on means that are too focused and insufficient to meet your objectives. You are deaf to the expectations of many key stakeholders if a housing policy is to succeed. With regard to real estate, trust is essential; But today, she's jerking off. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the NG group]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us come back to committee to give this long-awaited new impetus. The Republicans will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u64	Mrs Josy Poueyto, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u65	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is of course against this motion to refer it back to committee. No one will be surprised. We believe that this bill, initiated by citizen consultations, improved during the consensus conference through the participation of all stakeholders in the sector, and widely debated in four committees in our assembly, has benefited from sufficient discussion and enrichment to be presented in public today. The online consultations have also made it possible to involve our fellow citizens, their contributions to the development of a diagnosis in line with reality, a diagnosis that meets their needs and aspirations. As for the consensus conference, it allowed broad consultation between local elected officials, MPs, senators and industry professionals, which made it possible to consolidate the bill, thus avoiding some pitfalls. Finally, the work done in the Committee on Economic Affairs has allowed for the consideration of more than 2000 amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The discussions that we are about to have will offer us the opportunity to enrich this text once again with concrete answers to the expectations of our citizens regarding housing, whether it is to combat the territorial divide or to accompany their residential journey. All of these reasons lead us to believe that a referral back to committee would not provide new analyses that would inform the debates we are going to have in this House. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u66	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u67	In the general debate, Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Chairman of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the first time we discussed the government's housing policy was last November when we examined the finance bill. The zero-rate loan has been restricted; the Pinel device has been refocused; the APL accession has passed to two fingers from the deletion; the rate of the tax credit was reduced after various rebounds; Finally, a reduction in solidarity rent, accompanied by the decrease in APLs, was imposed in the social park for 800 million euros in 2018 and 2019. You will admit that to begin to understand such a crucial subject, we could have dreamed better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u69	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u70	We prefer stability to the IDU group, acting and independent. In this way, would it not have been better to reform individualised housing subsidies before they were reduced? Before refocusing certain tax systems, did we really take the time to evaluate them? For sure, this law of finance left a somewhat bitter taste. And then, this bill on housing, development and digital development came in. We've been hearing about it for several months. Several versions circulated, and the consensus conference resulted in a text that, despite its shortcomings, had been worked out at length. In the same way as on the draft law on balance in the agricultural and food sector, which we have just concluded, such a text must bear in mind the Government's vision. For our group, a balanced housing policy begins with a territorial approach. Zoning is the typical example of a uniform policy decided from Paris, while, from one department to another, a relaxed area does not have the same meaning at all. I usually say that the B2 area of my town of Châlons-en-Champagne has no point in common with a B2 area of the Southwest. More importantly, is our State, which is certainly too centralized, the best able to carry out housing policy? Probably not. The regions seem better placed to programme this policy, and the intercommunities to intervene. As for Paris, it must be treated separately. Above all, let us avoid considering France as a succession of metropolises. Each of the 400 life pools must be treated differently. The prevailing impression of reading this bill is that of a technocracy that would propose solutions that are not always relevant. It can also give the impression of short-term choices, of a religion of building more, often dictated by financial imperatives, Let us not forget, as the "A" of ELAN indicates, that any housing strategy has meaning only if it is part of a policy of spatial planning, as it is connected to employment and transport. The second priority for the IDU, AGIR and independent group is simplification. The laws that have piled up give the impression of an irreformable system. Massive grooming and the removal of standards was necessary, so much so that a text of simplification alone would have been enough to give a little air to the players in the sector. Your bill is approaching it, and we welcome your goodwill in this regard; But so much remains to be done... However, whether it is for the planning procedures, for the conversion of offices into housing, for the abuse of remedies or for the opinion of the architects of the Bâtiments de France, courageous measures are proposed. In addition, the relaxation of accessibility standards and the requirement for 10 per cent of live-in housing is a good idea. I regret, however, that you did not discuss the near-monopoly of INRAP – the National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research – and the financing of excavations and their impact on housing projects. On the other hand, I note that, both for partnership planning projects and for operations to revitalise the territory, you are making derogations from the common law in order to unblock certain situations, which clearly shows that ordinary law is a real straitjacket for planners. I take the example of artisans and small businesses in the building industry: they need flexibility to meet the needs of their clients in terms of construction and housing development, and many of them are looking for a global offer that brings together the different trades they need in construction or development work; This is why it seems necessary to provide for a protective legal regime in the event of co-contracting in private works and services contracts according to the amounts. Let me briefly turn to the revitalization of the territory, including the city centres of the medium-sized cities, such as that of my city of Châlons-en-Champagne. It is essential that the main city of the EPCI, itself a signatory to an agreement with the State in the context of these operations, be also so, since its city centre must be part of the perimeter of the areas of intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u71	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u72	In addition, it would seem to me appropriate to allow social donors, whether public or private, to invest in the conversion or rehabilitation of industrial and commercial sites in these city centres, even if these operations do not concern conventional housing, because that is how we will pool forces as we have been able to do in the framework of the ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal operations. Your bill has other reasons for satisfaction. Thus, it contains several new ideas, because not everything has been tried in the field of housing. In general, we are in favour of contracting and testing. It is really worth testing new tools, provided, however, that they do not become gas plants. We therefore see with a good mind the partnership planning projects, the mobility lease or the operations of revitalization of the territory, with some adjustments which we will propose by way of amendment, some of which have been mentioned earlier. Similarly, the experiment on the management of rents must be completed. However, be careful that the text that we are dealing with today – and which has doubled in volume – is not a catalogue of measures or an ALUR 2 law. This bill, Minister, Secretary of State, must reflect your vision. However, if your vision is the one found in Title II on the fabric of social donors, it is a cause for concern for us. We are not against the consolidation of HLM housing organisations and the pooling of their resources, but on condition that they respect their pluralism. Here too, the policy must be territorialised: there are real differences between the many social donors and among the territories – the rates of tenants receiving an APL vary greatly, for example. In general, subsidiarity should be given priority and local elected representatives should be trusted. We will defend in Article 25 of the alternative counter-proposals: lowering the grouping threshold from 15000 to 10000 housing units; provide for consolidation at the level of intercommunality or territorial coherence schemes – SCOT – rather than setting a uniform threshold; better reconcile the merger obligations of public offices with their new consolidation obligations. This issue is absolutely crucial to us: our discussions must change the text. On this occasion, the state must do what it did not do at the time of the finance bill, that is to say clearly what it expects from the social donors, and answer the following questions: what is the public order? How, taking into account the existing situation and needs, can efficiency and cost reduction be sought? Finally, for tenants, an economic model must be put in place that takes into account the evolution of residential routes. The periodic review of the situation of tenants by housing allocation commissions is a step forward, but once every six years, it is too long. We believe that the famous SRU quota must be preserved. Admittedly, adjustments may be necessary, but not to reduce or facilitate circumvention, only to promote social mix, for example by integrating home ownership. A few weeks after the presentation of Jean-Louis Borloo's report, we can rely on this text to move the lines. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Finally, since I started by referring to the previous finance law, I cannot help thinking about the next one. The restriction of the accession LPA was a mistake, we are convinced. Its effects are felt, in particular, overseas. However, its cost was limited and it had a real effect on home ownership. You are committed to this accession, as evidenced by your strategy of selling social housing, so we invite you to re-establish the APL accession. This is one of the many proposals we will make in these debates. Whether it is on sleep merchants, abusive occupations or the payment of rents, all are inspired by situations encountered on the ground and our experience of local elected officials. We are approaching this bill with a desire to correct certain points, to improve others and, in any case, to strengthen its territorial and simplifying approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u73	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, today we are confronted with one of the most problematic texts of this new majority. There is a desire to revive housing in France, which poses real difficulties for the actors in the sector. The first of the difficulties, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is your unbridled desire to reform the world of social housing brutally and in haste. Yes, this world needs to be reformed. Yes, it must evolve, and many of us have told the players in this sector. But we consider that the way you have been using since the finance law, by reducing the revenues of social donors, and now, with the ELAN bill, by forcing them to restructure and by encouraging them to sell their assets, poses a high risk to our country: that of seeing the production of social housing decline. Why? Social donors have lost some of the APLs, they will have to restructure and, in order to finance their shares, sell social housing. How do you expect that by losing revenue on the one hand, being forced to restructure and being forced to sell housing in order to regain liquidity on the other, they can at the same time, in the short term, continue to renovate, produce housing and participate in the National Urban Renewal Programme? This is impossible for them, because, as some colleagues said earlier, when they are faced with the need for restructuring or the need to sell housing in order to regain liquidity, they will be burdened with these new obligations and will no longer be able to continue to do their jobs. So you are deconstructing, in a somewhat violent way, this sector, even though it allows on the contrary to revive housing, simply because the social donors build housing, but also, and the developers know this well, because they are the main buyers of housing in VEFA – sale in the future state of completion. If the housing sector has returned to our country, it is precisely because the social donors bought in VEFA from the promoters, who market their programs in this way, but also by offering them for home ownership or for intermediate housing. The machine has therefore returned thanks to this mechanism. Now, as it restarts, you tell one of the main players in this sector that we must now do something else! The risk is structural. This dynamic can be halted, as the first figures of the first half of the year begin to show, because social donors, who will be obliged to restructure themselves, could be prevented from doing their job – caring for tenants, restructuring, renovating, especially in the context of urban renewal operations. This systemic risk exists. You could have set yourself the goal of reforming this world during the legislature, taking the time to carry out this reform and to accompany its actors. We, for our part, had reformed Housing Action. The reform, which included a legislative component – adopted, in particular, through the use of ordinances – spanned several years. We have carried it out by accompanying the social housing actor, Action Logement, and in consultation. There, as soon as your reform is in place, because you want to go very fast, with some brutality...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u75	And some iniquity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u76	..., it destabilizes one of the main actors in the housing world. If housing production stopped, or even if it had to dry up, it would ultimately cost our country, at the end of the legislature, one to two points of growth. We have experienced this: if the housing sector is broken down, it is not only a lack of response to the French who want to live, but also a whole part of our economy that stops working. But you are taking such a systemic risk. Minister, I am telling you very sincerely: it is incomprehensible. In the housing sector, things were going pretty well so far. Social donors simply needed to be accompanied and reformed without being brutalized. Such an approach would have kept housing production at its 2017 level, which was an exceptional year. But you made another choice. It's a first mistake. The second mistake, in our view, is that you authorize the sale of social housing to private companies. Selling to the tenant is normal: we are all in favour of it, because it allows the French to access the property. Selling between social providers has always been done: it is normal and it allows the world of social housing to be restructured. It is therefore necessary to do so, where possible, in consensus. But allowing the sale, in particular the sale in bulk, to private companies amounts to committing a double mistake. First of all, we must never forget that social housing belongs to the French: it is their heritage. It was the French who financed the construction of social housing in France. And to allow the sale of what has been financed by our compatriots to private companies, moreover at prices lower than those of the Domaine, without providing for anti-speculative guarantee clauses, is in my opinion a mistake. What is going to happen? In the beautiful neighborhoods, where there are only a few social housing units and where nice business is possible, the private developers will buy the houses that are put on sale, either to keep them and put them for rent, or to sell them after a few years by realizing a magnificent surplus-value – with the money of the French. In the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods, where the products offered will be the least attractive, who will buy them? Private companies that will either themselves be sleep merchants, or sell to sleep merchants who will exploit human misery. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this process is not imaginary: it is already at work in a number of neighbourhoods. This is the reality of today's world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u78	When you make such an air call by inciting private capital to buy social housing at attractive prices – because when you acquire this occupied property, its price is low, especially since you allow sales below the prices of the Estate – what sometimes do sleep merchants do? They make the tenants leave manu militari: we have a few examples to mention. Unscrupulous merchants, when they acquired the houses, expelled the tenants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u79	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u80	Once the accommodation is empty, it can be sold much more expensive or, if necessary, can be rented to several families. There is therefore a risk, if we do not foresee safeguards, that the sale of social housing will lead, in a number of territories, to the arrival of new sleep merchants and the degradation, tomorrow, of the condominiums concerned, where exorbitant gains will be made by private capital companies on the heritage of the French. Amendments have been tabled by a number of groups to avoid this speculation. I repeat, it would be best if private companies could not acquire social housing as a whole, especially since this development presents – as you know, because we have talked about it enough – a risk to the tax revenues of the municipalities concerned. Amendments have already been passed in the finance law, but we all have in mind the ICADE problem. When the company, which had been introduced on the stock exchange, sold 32,000 housing units in Île-de-France in order to trace its profits to private companies, some of them were captured by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the parent company, and thus by the State. The sale of these ICADE housing units, which had been financed by the French, nevertheless allowed private companies to make a lot of money. At the same time, the housing municipalities lost tax revenues for 20 years – 20 years! – because the State once asked this subsidiary of the Caisse des dépôts to sell these dwellings. How are the municipalities concerned responsible and have to lose money for private companies to earn? Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, can you at least make a commitment that no sale, pre-emption or requisition of vacant premises by the prefects to place social residences there will be made, especially in the most disadvantaged communes – the poorest, and the most disadvantaged within the meaning of the Act of 13 May 1991 establishing an allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion and a solidarity fund of the communes of the Île-de-France region, reforming the overall allocation for the operation of the communes and departments and amending the code of the communes, or DSU law, on the tax back of the communes concerned?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u81	The Prime Minister and Mr Mézard don't see what the problem is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u82	You should make a commitment – as we have already asked you in committee – in a public meeting: the municipalities concerned are not here to finance your proposals with their tax revenues. It is not up to these municipalities to pay. Therefore, if one can understand the philosophy leading to the sale of social housing, it can turn to disaster for a number of neighbourhoods, especially the most disadvantaged in our country. Minister, Secretary of State, the other problem with your bill is the lack of a fight against ghettoization. There is nothing in the text to combat the ghettoization of socially disadvantaged neighbourhoods. Nothing. There is no article that can put an end to it or limit it. Worse than that, a number of articles are extremely dangerous. The removal of the commission that we created by the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship, in particular, is a mistake. Of course, the Secretary of State, whom we met this week, has made commitments, and we will see how our amendments can be adopted. This commission must be reintroduced. But beyond that, if measures are not strengthened to avoid ghettoization, it will persist. To combat it, it is well known that those with housing rights and quotas must stop systematically housing the most vulnerable populations where they are already in large numbers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u84	If criteria, not to say ceilings, which these quota holders should respect, are not defined, ghettoisation will continue in our country: France is, in this area, the country of self-determination. All governments, like all administrations, have made the same mistake: over the past fifty years, the most vulnerable populations have been housed in neighbourhoods with social housing. And when someone belonging to the middle class leaves these neighbourhoods, we replace him with someone in greater difficulty: this policy, which Manuel Valls had described as apartheid, is a political reality in our country. It's a tragedy, it's our problem. We had begun to tackle the problem with the equality and citizenship law, which had given rise to rather heated debates in committee. Today we must continue this approach. The problem with this bill is that, precisely, it does not propose anything new in this area. It even sometimes worsens the situation. For example, the prefects will be able to requisition empty premises, including in the city's priority neighbourhoods, the QPVs, to install emergency accommodation facilities. What does that mean? Where are the prefects going to requisition these premises? If the bill does not provide that this requisition cannot take place in the PQs, it will take place in the underprivileged neighbourhoods, where emergency accommodation facilities for the most disadvantaged populations will continue to be set up. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, why don't you enshrine in the law that this prefectural requisition, which is much wider than in the current law, will have to be done as a priority in the towns carencées and in the cities that don't understand QPV? If you do, prefects will have to requisition premises to accommodate emergency accommodation in cities with few social housing units: this is called social mix. It is necessary to ensure that the most disadvantaged people go to places where they are not in the majority. We do not refuse to take care of these populations, but the rate of housing occupied by very fragile populations no longer allows the communes concerned to meet their social needs. This mix is therefore necessary: it is necessary to require that these populations be accommodated in communes with few social housing units. Your proposal to requisition emergency structures is good, but its scope must exclude QPVs. Make it possible, as a matter of priority, in small towns which, as a result, will have the obligation to host emergency accommodation facilities. If all these measures, combined with each other, do not allow for any change in what is being done in the QPVs, and if they do not require social housing and even very social housing, in neighbourhoods where there are few, then you will worsen ghettoization. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I said it in committee, and we were heard. We were told: we need to see each other again, which was the case. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I was on Tuesday morning at the Elysée...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u85	It's dangerous on its own!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u86	A visit to an ex-friend?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u87	... invited like others – I didn't say like everyone else – to listen to the presidential speech. I sincerely did not appreciate the entire speech of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u88	A little bit, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u89	But he said at one point: "We must stop sending people who benefit from housing under the right to housing – the DALO – to cities that already have a lot of housing. » I was drinking little milk... The problem is that that's not what you're writing in your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u90	He's doing the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u91	In these circumstances, who should we believe: the presidential speech at the Palais de l'Elysée or the bill introduced by the Government? I hope that the Government will table an amendment that will resume the presidential speech in extenso: we must stop hosting DALOs in neighbourhoods that already count a lot of them. I'm not saying it, it's the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u93	I hope that the Government will translate into legislation what the President of the Republic proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u94	[[Smile]] It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u95	Of course, but in this case it is tantamount to saying white and black. Ministers, don't take the words I'm going to say wrong, but I trust two white males to solve this very thorny problem and find solutions – because white males also have things to say and do smart things. Mr Minister, we have made reasonable proposals: we have tabled only 250 amendments in committee, and we will do the same in committee, with a view to improving this text, which also contains good things. For example, the measures you are proposing for the city centres, or to fight against sleep merchants, are good: we have hardly tabled any amendments aimed at opposing them. Those we have tabled are intended only to improve them, because they are in the right direction. We have the same judgment with regard to measures relating to telephone antennas, because even if the role of architects of the French buildings can be discussed, achieving global coverage throughout the country is an objective to which we adhere. Who can be against it? We also proposed similar measures. On your two major proposals, the sale of social housing and the lack of response to ghettoization, we believe you are making a historical mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u96	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u97	Even if this could have been done in committee, we must find a solution very quickly, because – I say so with a certain solemnity – the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods can no longer wait. We know very well who the ghettoization is today: it is the networks, especially radicalisation, that use the weakness associated with this phenomenon to implant themselves in these territories. Now, like the Republic, because of ghettoization, it is these networks that replace it. It is therefore not that a problem of housing, nor of social ghettoisation: the future of the Republic and of France is being played in these neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u99	Indeed, the Republic is replaced by those who are its enemies. Through the choices made in terms of housing as well as in the fight against ghettoization, it is also the defence of the Republic that we all provide together. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I hope that we can convince you, during the week, that on these two issues, the prohibition of the sale of social housing to private companies which would thus take over a heritage that France has financed and the fight against ghettoisation, we will be able to find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u101	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u102	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to look at this bill in a scheduled time. This is the second text that comes to the sitting under these conditions. Of course, it is not the same people who are in the Chamber – although for some, it is the case: fewer people are, the more difficult it is to divide themselves effectively to follow the debates. As for the group presidents, they have a status which, at first glance, seems extremely favourable, since they have a time...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u103	Unlimited!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u104	... to express itself, but, after the first moment of enthusiasm to the idea that one can speak almost without limit, one discovers that one has an obligation to do so, and to do so at the rhythm of the debate, so that one should sit night and day, as we have just done for the discussion of the text on agriculture, and then start again for the text on housing. Scheduled time has advantages, I agree – I was extremely critical when we started, but I look at it in another way after having experienced it for the first time – but it also has severe disadvantages when it comes to combining it with the particular organisation of parliamentary work that we have had for some time. When we decide at one hour minus two in the morning that we will start the debate, which will last until two ten hours, on glyphosate, it is clear that we will not convince anyone that we are discussing under the best conditions of lucidity – we are still happy on this occasion, because we have had sessions that lasted until five o'clock in the morning! All of this is totally unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u105	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u106	I take time on my speaking time...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u107	[[Smile]] As the president of the group!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u108	[[Applause on the benches of the FI Group, as well as on the benches of the LR, MODEM, GDR and non-attached Members]] ...to tell you how overwhelmed we are and, for some of us, exhausted. It is not a normal life but that of a parliamentarian who must stay here night and day, on such different texts. I would add that while it is very painful for us parliamentarians, it is also very painful for all our collaborators, not only those of whom we are in a way "the bosses", but also the staff of the National Assembly who are in direct contact with the work of the sitting. Do not think that staff who, for example, have been cut for three days by rotation can hold on to five, six or seven days, including weekends, for weeks and weeks – because that's what is expected, as we were told and staff were asked not to make any rental arrangements until August 15. I adjure the ministers present to tell anyone who is entitled not to do such a thing. I take the risk of speaking on this subject. I did it last year, explaining that it was necessary for people to have a vacation, especially that I had seen a rejuvenation of my colleagues and that I had deduced, which is proven, that many of them, elected for the first time, should explain themselves in family because they were going to disappear during the month of July, when rentals had been made and the little ones were waiting at home to know what was going to happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u109	[[Smile]] With the suitcases!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u110	[[Laughs]] They laughed at me and it's almost if they didn't call me lazy! Since then, you have set up a psychological aid cell for those who have collapsed on the way, because, really, the situation is untenable. Yes, she's untenable! I am not ashamed to say this: there are people who have physical limits and who cannot hold hours and hours, days and days in a row. And if we only do politics with supermen and superwomen, able to live without family life, night and day locked up in a Chamber, then it's a small destiny for the common thing in the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u111	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u112	[[Laughs]] I wanted to tell you these things, since I have time to say them – and no one can stop me from doing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u114	We have, seventeen of us, prepared the review of this bill with the same seriousness as the previous ones. We have tabled 100 amendments. Ms Taurine will go into the details of the technical provisions of the text – because it is a text whose content is eminently technical; I know that I, who was elected local and who is in a position to appreciate the impact of what we are going to discuss. Before I come here, I would like to be in a perspective shared by other colleagues here, even if we do not draw the same conclusions. We are talking about housing, but, in truth, we are talking about the city. We are talking about the city, but, as Garcia Márquez would say, to name this thing, we have no word; We'd almost have to point her out so we can know what this is all about. The city of the twenty-first century, the one in which we live, has nothing to do with the cities of all the other ages of humanity. Why? Because the explosion in the number of human beings has changed all their relationships. It is a radically new fact that 60 per cent of the world's population lives in cities. It is a radically new fact that 80 per cent of French people live in cities, that is to say, groups whose borders are sometimes not well known, except when one is a local elected official. For example, it is clear that the Paris region, with its 13 million inhabitants, forms to the eye of anyone an urban continuum whose division into communes does not correspond to geography or any particular decision; Simply, things have been done. I was elected in the Paris region of a commune, Massy, where one day in the summer of 1962, it was decided to cut down the harvest with the excavator and to build a large ensemble, on horseback to two communes, then two departments. Thus the city spread into the fields, crushing the arable land and, above all, going at its pace, which no one controlled. It was only gradually that urban plans were put in place – to the point where some might have believed that the urban fact was entirely the result of a will that could be independent of other social conditions. However, at no time has the mode of development of the city been or will be able to escape the dominant social power relations. It is within this framework that this bill is part of. Either the city reproduces the social hierarchies, or mechanisms are put in place to curb the expansion of these social mechanisms, i.e. inequality, or to amplify it. Our analysis of the text is that we let go of the logic of the market. This basic inspiration, which is an ideological inspiration – just as ideological, I agree, that mine, which is on the opposite side of the coin, makes it appear that spontaneous dynamics are in the bud and that it is enough to liberate them for things to get better, as it is assumed that the law of the market will eventually balance all other human activities. We believe that we do not. In order to try to demonstrate it imperatively, to show how far we cannot abstract ourselves from the rest of the conditions of human life and civilization, I ask that we look at who is there. We are 7 billion where we were only 2.5 billion in 1950. Who are these people? I do not want to go into the analysis of their social condition; I will simply describe this population by age groups. Who are they? More than half of humanity is under the age of 25 and 26 per cent of humanity is under the age of 15. So it's a crowd of young people. We, the French, do not get out of this cleanliness: 25% of our urban population is under the age of 20; 70% of the French were not born in 1958. This has an immediate social consequence: who welcomes young people does not welcome them in the same way as adults or elders. The elders, let's talk about it: life expectancy has risen in the world from forty-seven years in 1950 to sixty-nine years today; As for us, French, we have moved from a life expectancy of sixty-nine years to a life expectancy of eighty-two years. It is therefore a population as never before there has been at the other ages of humanity which is there: full of young people, but with a considerable number of elderly people, who will enter into a relationship of dependence with the rest of society. This cannot be resolved in any other way than in the urban context. This is the age of homo urbanus – homo in the generic sense of the term, of course. These human beings can only live, and survive, through the social networks that urban reality constitutes. I would add that this human mass is concentrated in the same places on the whole planet, that is, for more than 70%, along the shores, putting the city everywhere in direct contact with extreme weather events, whether they come from the sky or from the sea. The measure of this fact, this moment of human civilization, must be the starting point for the confrontation of ideas that will lead us to a decision on a particular technical measure. These technical measures, I said we would talk about them, and I will discuss some of them myself. Nevertheless, on behalf of my group, I wanted to make you feel how we asked the question. We put it as a radically new fact. What we have to do about the city, no generation before us had to do it. Yet we do not leave a blank page; We're starting from a real that already exists. How are we going to change it? How are we going to extend it? These are two activities that are not of the same nature. Are we going to curb the general mechanism that drives inequalities in society? Or are we going to let him make his way? That is what we believe you are doing through this bill. We think it's a ghetto machine. The locks that had been put in place after the Liberation, especially at the time of the rural exodus, which was a considerable civilizational event, were blown up: a mass of rural population arrived in the city; I witnessed it: I saw them very happy with the HLM, happy to have the heating, running water, the separate toilets in the apartment and several rooms for family members. It was considered in popular circles as an extraordinary moment of progress and happiness. It should not be believed that social habitat has always been the regrowth that it is today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u116	It was a great joy, a great promotion, a beautiful moment for many people; So much so that we, the blackfoot, were looking at these people so happy to have toilets and running water, because we knew this, but not them. It's marked me, and I'm the witness of it right now. There is therefore no fatality to the fact that social housing is simply a repair housing. Social housing is also an opportunity for promotion. It is indeed through housing that everything begins. For years, the country has made the necessary efforts – well or badly, but it has made them: it has housed. At the same time, it has given way to the needs of social equality; She was less vigilant for the most vulnerable, and we let things go. The social habitat has deteriorated and it has become ghettoized. One can be astonished to see that the people who are in some apartment of an HLM that, on paper, has all the characteristics to be wonderful, with vast spaces and the proximity of a place of transport – I do not say that this is always the case, but I am thinking of a particular example that I will not burden you with – have only one haste: to leave. Why? Because the social conditions are so degraded, so often in the mailboxes we find the green paper of the bailiffs rather than any other correspondence, that everyone has only one idea: to get away from there, as soon as possible. So much so that the effects will accumulate: the mediumization detricates when it was once the bridge that homogenized society. The objective of meditating was a social dream for many social categories. Well, from now on, it is the opposite, so that urban space has been reporting for some 30 years on the social degradation of our societies, to the point of the unacceptable, the unbearable: areas in which I am certain that anyone in this House, whatever his political opinion, whatever his prejudices may be, would not bear what one can see – but I am sure that you all know examples of this nature. There is no point in making great words. What I just want to say is that it's unbearable and that one day or the other, all of this will blow us up in the face without us knowing what end to grip the problem with. And yet, the people who are in these ghettos, I attest, are doing everything they can to stop the deterioration of the situation and continue to live in dignity – but under what conditions! For of course, ghettoization is accompanied by contempt, which is seen at work everywhere, on all stages of decision-making. I recently demonstrated what is happening in Marseille's Air-Bel district. I had to make a video of it, and a whole story, so that, in a few moments, we'd be deigning to let go to these brave people what we owed them. Seven years, ladies and gentlemen! Seven years when these people didn't have clear water to drink! And when what was to be repaired was finally repaired, and chlorine was put in the water, they were asked not to take hot showers because, heated, the chlorinated air is bad for the lungs! I am quoting this example, but I am sure we could mention many others. No, all this can't last. All this must change, and the city must cease to be the space where, in the most intimate part, the inequality that ravages society explodes. The city itself is a subject of speculation, and housing is probably one of the most disturbing aspects. It is perhaps the most violent symbol of what speculation is, in the radical sense of this term. I am an owner in Paris, and have been indebted for this; But it's quite bearable, because, although I don't do anything, the value of my apartment increases every year. I'm quick to tell you that, this apartment, I give it whenever you want me to get another identical one. For as far as I am concerned, I have bought a dwelling, not a gold ingot; and those who buy their dwelling do so in order to lodge themselves, to be assured of their journey with him. But finally, what did I do to add value to my apartment? I'm not the one who redone the street, who wasn't redone; Neither did I, who installed the shops, nor the lighting, nor the rest: just like the other co-owners, I did nothing. Here we see how the speculative mechanism works. Of course, he expels and demoyanizes the big cities; so that, the more we let go of this mechanism, the more we let it act blindly, and the more we see in the center, those who have everything, and, on the periphery, those who have nothing. One thus gets used to the word "suburb", forgetting that it means the place of ban, of banishment. That's exactly what's going on. The metropolization mechanism is a mechanism for the absorption of the population and its segmentation by income levels. There are certainly some exceptions here or there. In Marseilles, for example, the poor are in the middle of the city. But it won't last. This is the second aspect of speculation. There's nothing new here. When he redone Paris, Baron Haussmann allowed for an unobjective accumulation – because that's what the exaggeration of real estate prices is like. But the other aspect, I said, is the big donors. Minister, I ask you to think about it and look closely at it. In some European cities, there are unprecedented mechanisms of speculation. A speculation fund, for example, buys a whole street, if possible well located, without selling or renting anything to anyone. The real estate value of the property is then valued in relation to the area in which it is located, and since it is unoccupied, it is deemed to be more liquid; so that it represents, in the assets of the company that owns it, a very high-level asset – although I consider it purely fictional – and in which the company has no interest in doing anything. I have seen two or three such examples in the countries of Northern Europe. If we had to write the law, we would give ourselves as the first objective, by housing people, to correct inequalities rather than allow them to develop, to dismantle ghettos rather than accompany them. And when I speak of ghettos, what comes to mind most often are those of the poor; But rich ghettos are hardly more interesting on the human level – this is in any case my conviction, to me who see them from the outside. No, it's not a life, it's a life of one another. We must live with others; and our children, like the generations that come, must learn it. The first learning is that which is done by living with boyfriends, girlfriends, neighbours, in short, those who live in the same group. A people must be brewed in the places of residence, which is nowhere else. It is therefore necessary to correct inequalities rather than allow them to widen, and then to make housing the lever of the ecological transition. It's not just a word. Earlier, the Secretary of State recalled that he was a water and forest engineer. I liked it. We talked about the wood industry. We can't keep taking sand forever to make concrete. The disturbances that this creates begin to jump in the eyes. If you refuse to see it, it's no big deal: in twenty-five years, 75% of the beaches will have disappeared; But maybe it won't slow down the business movement: that's what it's all about, isn't it? In the meantime, alternative solutions will have to be found. Wood is one of them, and the French are particularly interested in it. Our country has the largest European forest, after that of a Northern European country, and the most diverse. Moving to wood construction, as the Secretary of State said earlier, requires not only a decision to be made, but that the entire production chain be organized accordingly. Organizing this production chain is what we call ecological planning. How can we imagine changing the city and its construction without ecological planning? My answer is that it's impossible. The Secretary of State will not deny me: to produce wood for this type of construction, we cannot be content with the pines and fir trees that the National Forestry Office – NFB – has generously distributed throughout the territory, not only in the mountains but also in the plains, with the idea of a harvest spread over twenty or thirty years. The barrels of these trees are twenty to thirty centimetres thick, which falls well: the machines that allow them to flow are not wider! But what's worse is that they're not made in France. So that all the conditions of the production chain, from the upstream to the downstream, escape us. Yet our country is able to build wooden structures whose resistance to fire – I say for those who would be alarmed at this detail – is superior to that of concrete. I will not knock our House with other examples of what can be done with straw or earth; and to those who, smiling around, would tell me that I am very brave, but that none of this will be done, I will reply: you will be obliged to do so, because the resource is not inexhaustible. When we speak of a climate or ecological crisis, that is what we are talking about: the physical limits to the availability of the resources exploited so far. Good housing, social housing, can be a major lever of the ecological transition, including through the materials used and the quality of insulation that can now be demanded – and that must be demanded. Finally, there has been a new development in the picture: I mentioned it a moment ago with regard to urban civilization, and I now want to raise another point. Since 2006, for the first time in a long time, housing overcrowding has returned to France. I do not intend to attribute responsibility to them or to them: that is not the point. The subject is that overcrowding is back, and that its impact is not limited to the image that one can worry about when one does not live in an overcrowded dwelling, which is my case and the one, I imagine, of many of us on these benches. Overcrowding is the impossibility of leading a certain type of life, I mean a social life. I will take the example of one of the films – remarkable to understand a situation that we do not know ourselves – of the Fondation Abbé Pierre. One sees a woman welcoming, out of pure benevolence, another woman with her three children, so that these four people live in the same apartment – can we call it that? – 12 square meters. We see then that the occupants are not only piled up and private, children as well as adults, to build any life, any possibility of fulfillment, as long as no intimacy is possible, but also everything else: anodizing things which, for my part, I had not thought of before I saw this film. How can we, for example, store food, if we can buy more than a certain amount, in such a small space? That's impossible. Where to store and archive? But what do you want to archive, Mr. Mélenchon? Pardi, the paperwork! Because everyone has to fill in papers, more papers! There is also the rest, starting with access to the computer network. How can I do that? It's simply impossible. Thus overcrowding – moderate or absolute, depending on the number of pieces missing, in view of the characteristics that define each of these two terms – has consequences in all spheres of existence. And everything that is wrong at this moment will go from bad to worse afterwards; In such circumstances, children cannot study or do their homework at home. You can't have a family meal when you're four in 12 square meters: you eat in turn! I took the example of a twelve-square-metre dwelling because it's the one shown in the film, but if it were a 14-square-metre dwelling, it wouldn't change anything, you understand it as I do. In short, overcrowding is a scourge, and one of the most urgent objectives we should set ourselves is to put an end to it. We are, moreover, equally well-intentioned. We want to put an end to this phenomenon, and I am convinced, Minister, Secretary of State, that you too: I am not suing you to think that it is very good that people live in overcrowded apartments. But how can we cure it? You think you can do this by releasing the energies of the market. I think it's the opposite. I believe that this will be the disaster, that things will go from bad to worse and that some of your good intentions – of which I therefore credit you – will translate into effects that are contrary to them. To show this, it is sufficient to cross several provisions of the text. The precarious lease, for example, is considered more practical: it may be, yes, for us or our children, for those who have some good behind them; But, for the common mortals, it means only one thing: whatever you want, it is no longer the tenant who, in the end, will decide the date of his departure, but the lessor. And any reason may be invoked by the lessor, who will decide alone, to get the intern, the apprentice or the person away in CDD. Cross, I said, this measure with the possibility of privatizing HLM, and the impossibility, for the inhabitants, to buy the apartment so privatized. This situation I knew when a company sold social housing to the people who occupied it. These apartments, moreover, were of acceptable quality. The operation therefore had nothing dishonoring in itself: what is, is the idea of selling social housing. However, some residents could not afford to buy these apartments, even though the price might seem reasonable. From then on, they had to leave the place. In the end, whatever is said, the law of the market therefore nullifies the right to keep in the place, because the law of the market knows only itself. I therefore ask that all the measures envisaged be examined, not one after the other, but each in relation to all the others. We will then see the deflagrating, "ghettoising" effects of the provisions of this text. I wish now...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u117	[[Smile]] Conclude!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u118	[[Smile]] ... briefly review the reasons why this text does not suit us – but it is no big deal: I can still speak for an hour and a half...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u119	He's rich! Word of non-registrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u120	[[Smile]] I will not abuse my speaking time, ladies and gentlemen, but I intend to enjoy it. I said, a moment ago, what we think of the introduction of the lease for one to ten months. You are well aware, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, of the extent to which people's lives are already broken up, full of insecurity. This will facilitate mobility, you say. I want to tell you a first thing about that. There are people who are full of mobility: not everyone has to be mobile! Not everyone has a life plan to be agitated or to move from one place to another. Some people just want to be where they are, who feel good about it because their parents are in the area and the three towers of HLM are their village! You have to understand that. It's a problem sometimes, because sometimes they don't get out of these neighborhoods at all: I hope you don't ignore it. Some young people, who live in Les Ulis or Massy, never come to Paris, despite the connection by the RER. Some are twenty-five years old, and have never seen the capital. When you're a local elected officer, your arms fall off, but that's how it is. Let us not deny what human beings are: it is not by chance that they have become sedentary, it is also because it seemed to them that it was better like this. Not everyone is, we know that. It's the old nomad quarrel against sedentaries. In the meantime, that's how it is. So, add some precariousness? Can we get into an apartment and think, in ten months, we could be kicked out? Or get there with his suitcases, the little ones, maybe, and the paper, and think, in six years, they'll come back to see if we're good and if by any chance they couldn't propose something else? If it is a question of proposing, everything is fine, but there will be only one step to be taken to impose. And they will be told, "What are you doing here again? » We've met people who wanted to leave large apartments to go to little ones. We have also known people – we have all had elders in our families – who were sick, afraid, anxious, with the only idea of leaving the place where they were and where they had raised their families. We can say that they only have to be modern and flexible, but the problem is that they can't. We do with human beings as they are. Add to that that we detriculate the framework of rents, which will become experimental again! We fully believe that housing should not be a commodity like any other. The price must therefore be fixed. You also propose to do so with a quasi-socialist measure – and I could congratulate you on that –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u121	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u122	... a small remnant of castrism that leads you to ask the inhabitants to pay according to their salary. I would like to inform you that this is happening in Cuba. But there, it's for everyone, and not just for some. If you take an HLM in which you say: "Those who earn the most pay the most and those who have the least, pay the least". You know the result in advance. Those who earn the most will go away and those who earn the least will stay there, so that in the end you will have only those who earn the least who will stay in the same place, which will accentuate all that we have denounced until then. We ask you to hear it, and perhaps to tell us, that would be interesting, why it won't happen that way. The interest of social housing is to manage to mix populations. We need the mediation of housing. We need, as I saw at the time when the new cities were taking off, that the sweeper and the engineer, the housekeeper and the teacher of the superior live together in the same building, because that's how we make a beautiful country, with people who talk to each other, who meet each other, who talk to each other, and who live together. And that's how we make a strong society. We therefore fear this cross-measure – a lease of one to ten months and unblocking the framework of rents – and, of course, the sale of the social sector. I don't know why you're doing this. It is said that it is to allow donors to buy money in this way, to build other housing. We heard it, it's a logic, but it's not ours. We absolutely disagree with that. It is through the money deposited by the French, by Book A, that social housing is financed. This very good idea worked very well. As a result, new housing is constantly being created and, from time to time, the old one is being beaten down to build new ones with better standards. It is the community – not the market – that has always been the lodger of the human group, whether it is to settle in a cave or to build a village. Because everything I said earlier shows the difference between individual, autonomous life in the village and this kind of existence in the urban environment. We disagree: this is a mistake. There's gonna be a terrible speculation. It is the beautiful pieces that will be sold, for the good people. And the little pieces, or about nothing, will be sold for the others. We talked about sleep merchants, but it's not just them. Between the sleep merchants and comfort, luxury, there are all kinds of donors. We have all seen what housing can be so degraded that few people agree to live there. We understand why. And some are locked in there, without being able to leave. The sale of housing, Minister, will promote speculation, whatever your intentions, because real estate, and land that goes with it, are the raw material of elementary speculation that can be done in a society like ours. Whatever the scope of this sale, especially when communities are in short supply of social rental housing, it will be a disaster. But the pompon is still when we decide to make a flower to a city, already in deficit, that sells to private actors, and to allow, for ten years, these housing units to be counted as social housing, when it is no longer! This is a way to unravel a measure that had taken a crazy time to build, so that everyone would take their share of social housing in their city. Minister, you're saying you're trying to focus on social donors. What for? In the Paris region, I knew a monster, the Office public interdepartmental de l'Essonne, du Val d'Oise and des Yvelines – OPIEVOY – which managed social apartments in three departments. A monster!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u123	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u124	All the local elected representatives said the same thing, for if anyone decides, at the other end of the Paris region, who will live in a given place, one guesses the result: he will send there all those whom he does not want in the commune where he is. I'm not saying that it was necessary to leave it to each municipality to decide who would settle at home – we know what abuses that would lead to. It obviously takes a little mobility, but not monsters, who distribute people without taking into account anything, their place of work, or what would please them – let's not talk about it. Of course, monsters of this nature tend to consider that, if it doesn't work in a corner, it's no big deal. And that's how we got to the situation we experienced in what was a flagship of social housing in France. We were reporting there, so beautiful, but today we can't say that Grigny La Grande Borne is the model of a success. Those who owned these dwellings thought everything was fine, until we realized it wasn't rolling, but it was already too late, the slope was taken. I am not going into any more detail, because of course my intention is not to stigmatize the populations there. It's the opposite, I've loved them a lot. These are some of the measures that go in the direction I indicated at the beginning. What will separate us in this debate is not the technique, it is the political aim and the responsibility on which we believe that the development of social housing can be based. I ask that our debate be able to keep the nature of this confrontation. I'm sure there's no one here who wants to put everyone in the same kind of housing and level the population. That's not our goal. The priority, as I said earlier, is to break speculation, to break the mechanism of ghettoization, to cope with overcrowding and to ensure a new model of development of the city, both by the materials that will compose it and by the way of extending it. The city extends to the horizontal; We don't know if this is a good idea, many think that no, that it should extend vertically. Here too, we know the limits of this exercise, for the comfort of human life. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Ms. Josy Poueyto also applauds]] In short, it is a very beautiful subject that we are addressing. I hope I have convinced that this is a highly political subject. In a way, it refers to the project of society that each of us carries and represents for the people who elected us, in order to make his word heard in the rostrum and in the decisions that we take.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u125	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u126	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if last year was a record year in terms of the construction and sale of both old and new housing, this embellishment unfortunately risks being of short duration. Indeed, while it is worth recalling that, for three years now, this has been better, the construction sector has probably been the one that suffered the most and that has emerged the least quickly from the famous economic crisis of 2008. Let us remember this three-year embellishment, even if the prices were not entirely returned to their original level, with regard to the cost of construction. But, for the first time in three years, in the first three months of the year, construction starts stagnant and the number of dwellings allowed is decreasing. Despite these first results, 2018 is expected to be another good year, as we should benefit from the momentum of previous years, especially in 2017, for the building and housing sectors. However, with regard to the forecasts for 2019 and 2020, they are not very optimistic. If I recall this context, as we have already done in committee, ladies and gentlemen, it is that the first signals from the new Government and the new majority have been very negative and have accentuated this trend, particularly with regard to social housing and with regard to tax support for the renovation of the old one. In view of this, the bill on housing, development and digital development is therefore timely. Together with my colleagues, I can only rejoice at this legislative bounty, which gives us the opportunity to send a strong signal to this sector, in an attempt to stop this decline. Minister, Secretary of State, like many of your government colleagues, after the unprecedented pouncing on social housing, you are in some way on a mission. You said earlier, Minister, that you wanted social housing money to remain in social housing. It's a wish for the future. Let me make a close connection with water policy: on the subject of the Assises de l'eau, your colleagues Nicolas Hulot and Sébastien Lecornu are also on mission, since Bercy emptied their caisses in 2017 and 2018, as he did for social housing. After that, the Government dispatched competent ministers, full of good will, but with empty pockets. It is in this context that we approach this text in session. As I said in the Committee on Sustainable Development, where I was present, and in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where I spent three days and three nights with you, at this stage I doubt very much, and despite the efforts already made, that real long-term solutions are being found. On many points, such as the revitalization of the city centres, digital development or the fight against unworthy housing, the project does not go far enough. Similarly, the issue of land tenure is only very poorly addressed in the text. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of talk about housing, in particular the large urban concentrations of social housing, and less about other territories, where there is a great deal of housing, especially because there is a lot of employment, in sectors where natural topography is not always suitable to free up land, especially in mountain areas or border areas. In these areas where land is scarce, it is extremely expensive, which leads to a particularly tense situation. I have not yet found solutions in the text to overcome these difficulties. What about the financial means available to the social donors, who, as I said, have already had to cope with an unprecedented puncture? This is indeed one of the major weaknesses of this text full of goodwill, skills and good ideas, but which does not provide for financial support. However, the lengthy hours of debate in committee have already led to a significant improvement in the bill, with as many as 472 amendments adopted. I recognize the quality of our dialogue with the Government, particularly in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, you have even accepted certain amendments from the opposition, since four or five of the amendments I tabled have been adopted, and I would like to thank you for that. However, how can we not regret the use of the scheduled legislative time procedure? For a text of this magnitude, which concerns one of the major concerns of the French and French, we should have taken the time, ladies and gentlemen, to debate and discuss the articles quietly. There will be only one housing law in this legislature. It would have deserved better than the fifty small hours which we shall see, I fear, this weekend, that they will cadenade the debates. Let me go back to some of the advances I have defended or supported in committee, which are now included in the text and which I hope will be maintained at the end of our debates. I will start with an amendment which, as you will understand, was an appeal amendment. What is promised, something due: I have conveyed to you, gentlemen, the beautiful letter of an architect of the buildings of France of Haute-Savoie who, in front of a peril order and the urgent need to demolish a building located near a high school – this happens without comment – has issued a negative opinion to the demolition, considering that it, even partial, would be an irremediable loss for the heritage of the commune and the Haute-Savoie. I could almost have brought you some photos; In the event of a second reading, I shall not fail to do so. Without even looking at the cost of repairing the building, the ABF considered that "the realization of a heritage diagnosis coupled with a programming study should lead to the emergence of re-use solutions that would make sense" – that is where the word is worth its burden of peanuts – "in this area of the lower Arve valley, how dynamic and prosperous." Understood: "Gentlemen of the Haut-Savoyards, we know that your department is rich, that the heritage is worth money, so you will find a solution: manage to rehabilitate this building. » Where is the heritage interest in this ABF notice? [[Smile on the benches of the Government]] I had therefore tabled an amendment which simply meant that the Government, which, I believe, has the means to do so, would remind the ABF that they are here to give their opinion on the issues of heritage and not their personal feelings. That, as they say, is done! Another real step forward we have achieved is the possibility for co-operatives in the use of agricultural equipment, the CUMA, to be exempted from the use of an architect for a construction for agricultural use of less than 800 square meters. I hope that we will not come back to this provision. There is also the possibility of selling a former home to an investor who would create student housing for sale or rental; counting the child subject to access and accommodation rights among persons living in the home when considering a request for social housing; the possibility of having information on the identification of soils in the event of the sale of building land, in particular in areas at risk. These are all amendments with progress, and I welcome the adoption of them. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, our debates in committee have made it possible to change the text; Let us take advantage of our work in session to go even further. I shall dwell on four points that are of particular interest to me. First of all, I will defend an amendment to include in the law the possibility for the prefect to prohibit the use of heating appliances – especially wood-burning appliances – defective, not in accordance with the rules of the atmospheric protection plan, the PPP, in the area where it applies and whenever it advocates it. In some areas, housing is a major contributor to poor air quality. It is perhaps one of the shortcomings of this text – we have discussed it – that we should have included a whole section on greenhouse gas emissions and air quality. For we focus on transport, but in many of the areas covered by PPPs – they are about 40 in our country – it is housing that is massively, if not most, responsible for the emissions of certain pollutants, especially PM10. For example, ladies and gentlemen elected in the Paris region, in Paris in the winter, almost 50% of the emissions of fine particles come from wood heating, including open chimneys. That sounds amazing, but it's true. Another example: in the Arve Valley, in Haute-Savoie, during the peaks of winter pollution, 70-80% of fine particulate emissions are related to open chimneys, so again, to wood heating. It is not a question of calling into question the wood industry, defended by Mr Mélenchon, and which I support myself, coming from a department covered by 37% of the forest; But, quite simply, to remind us that dry wood must be burned in a closed fireplace, for when we burn damp wood in an open fireplace, it is a real disaster. I've been fighting this fight for ten years. I invented the air-wood fund, designed to provide funding and support to individuals, especially those who have little means, to close their homes open. I consider that when, in one territory, ten years of public money and accompanying public arrangements have been mobilised, the time has come to allow the prefect of the department to move on to the ban, after the awareness-raising phase and the accompanying phase. I hope that the stage of incomprehension has passed among parliamentarians who are not concerned with the subject and who are therefore not familiar with it. There are many subjects which I myself know poorly and which do not concern my territory; But in this case, I listen to my colleagues and sometimes manage to find points of agreement with them. I hope that the debates in the Committee on Sustainable Development and in the Committee on Economic Affairs will finally have enabled us to provide legislative and therefore also regulatory support for this approach. Another provision that I will defend relates in particular to the specificity of our mountain territories: it could be important – in this respect, I agree in a certain way with Mr Mélenchon – to allow at least two groups of organizations and social donors to coexist in the same department. I told you, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State: former mayor of a commune that had a lot of social housing, I know how useful it is to the edile and to the inhabitants of the social districts the presence of several social donors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u128	... to be able to compete with them, tell them: "Do you care about such a neighborhood badly? Well, you will no longer be assigned new constructions among those foreseen by the local planning plan or by the territorial coherence scheme until you change the broken mailboxes, replace the broken lamps, erase the tags, replace the containers that burned, until you do your job in insulating the buildings better. Where there will be only one operator, we will no longer be able to compete in this way. I fear that, in this case, the worst of the social donors – because, why not say so?, if some are very good, others are very bad – will do their job even less well than today. This is one of the shortcomings of the text, which everyone in the Committee on Sustainable Development and in the Committee on Economic Affairs has acknowledged: we have talked a lot about housing, construction, but not about the people living in social housing. However, if we make a housing law, it is above all for them. It is therefore a mistake not to allow, by way of derogation, at least two social donors to coexist in a department. Nor have we talked enough about tourist areas, while we have spoken extensively about urban concentration. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to present you with a local situation. In the whole northern part of Haute-Savoie, two thirds of the department and 450,000 permanent inhabitants – the department with 850,000 inhabitants – there are 550,000 tourist beds! And within this same perimeter, there are 100,000 border workers who will work every day in Geneva. It gives you an amazing cocktail: I pass you the price of land, the price of housing, not to mention the fact that places with the name as prestigious as Chamonix lose every year permanent inhabitants, the impossibility of making seasonal housing and keeping our young people. In this regard, too, I had made proposals, particularly with regard to the land use factor, COS. We need our specificity to be taken into account, like that of Paris. For sixteen years I have been in this house, I have always voted in favour of the recognition of the specificities of Paris, because I have always found it normal to do so when a Member of Parliament or a Minister proposes it – and God knows that at the moment, with the Olympic Games, we are voting for such provisions. I have always recognized them, always supported them, never opposed them, always voted for them. Accept, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, that the border, tourist, coastal and mountain areas also benefit from specific measures, since the housing situation is particularly tense, for both seasonal and permanent inhabitants, and that it is important to be able to keep the new generation there. I have also tabled an appeal amendment on mixed-economy companies – the SEMs – that carry social donors, so that they can build housing for the public. It seems that they do not have the possibility to build houses for the gendarmerie. If it's true, it's crazy! Perhaps this piece of legislation, between this reading and the passage to the Senate, will solve this problem. There is no reason, in fact, for a SEM bearing a social lessor to be unable to build housing for public establishments and for a public service, especially a gendarmerie. Finally, I invite you to be particularly vigilant: I have raised a hare about the littoral law, without obtaining an answer; I trust you, but I am not going to upset the balances affecting the six great alpine lakes, under indescribable land pressure – I am thinking of the two departments of Savoy. Finally, my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller and I are surprised at the absence of provisions in the bill for the installation of Travellers. The chairman of the commission and the members of the Government had spoken a lot about consultation, but it seemed that the latter had somewhat "drinked" within the Government and between the Government and the majority. However, some departments are particularly concerned about the presence of Travellers, and it has been clearly announced during several ministerial visits on the spot – why not mention Mrs Gourault, with whom I have excellent relations, especially because of our common past within the Association des maires de France – that the ELAN bill would be an opportunity for the Government and the majority to make legislative amendments concerning Travellers. The majority and the Government rejected the amendments that my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller and I had defended as part of our parliamentary niche invoking this argument. However, as far as I am aware, no government amendment has been tabled, either in committee or in committee, and – a little bit of history – the chairman of the committee has rejected our amendments to the ELAN law on the grounds that they had nothing to do with the text. If the accommodation of the Travellers has nothing to do with the ELAN law, then I have two things to ask. First of all, to the Minister and the Secretary of State: try to agree with Mrs Gourault on what legislation, if possible before the end of the legislature, we can hope to see the government's amendments coming. Secondly, to the committee and to the majority: in which text can we talk about Travellers? This is a real problem for them, as for the mayors and the territories facing the reception of these populations. Thank you for the constructive dialogue that we have established in committee. I expect, however, on the issues that I have raised, during this debate in session and before the shuttles and the enactment of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u129	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us has been the subject of extensive work and consultation. I want to stress this point: ten months of meetings, since the launch of the consultation by the ministers in the summer of 2017, have made it possible to obtain 2600 contributions from the actors in the sector; a concertation of the movement The Republic in progress gave rise to 17,000 digital contributions; a consensus conference was held from December to February, at the initiative of the Senate – I welcome this innovative approach that unites the two Houses of Parliament – with representatives of the sector in all its diversity, and hundreds of hours of interviews were conducted in Paris and on the ground. I would also like to acknowledge the collective work we have done during the forty hours of debate in committee last week, and the many round tables we have held in recent months, still within the framework of the committee. This bill is part of a more comprehensive housing strategy, including a set of legislative and regulatory measures and action plans. Thus, the finance bill for 2018 allowed the extension of the zero-rate loan and Pinel schemes to promote housing construction...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u131	Not for everyone, not everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u132	... in tense areas, as well as home ownership. As for the "City Action" plan, it allocates €1.2 billion to the National Housing Agency, ANAH, to rehabilitate housing and improve its energy performance, out of a total of €5 billion to revitalize the city centres of our medium-sized cities. Let us also mention the very high-speed plan, which has set itself the goal of connecting all the French without exception by 2022. These measures are fully in line with our desire to recreate cohesion in the territories. For several decades, our society has undergone profound changes: increasing professional mobility, digital and ecological transitions, recomposed families, rising rent prices... French people need housing that is in line with their lifestyles: more connected, greener, more flexible and better adapted to the diversity of their journeys. They also need cheaper housing. The first item of household expenditure, housing now accounts for an average of 26% of the French budget, and much more in the most tense areas or for the most fragile of our citizens. In some areas, housing supply is much lower than demand, which contributes to a dizzying rise in prices. Many medium-sized cities, on the contrary, suffer from an abundance of poorly adapted housing and the closure of shops. In order to continue to play its role, housing must therefore respond to these difficulties and take into account the great changes that mark our daily lives. It must meet today's needs. It is our duty to give all French people access to affordable, quality housing and to address the social and territorial divide that the country has been experiencing for many years. We have too long opposed tenants to landlords, urban areas to rural areas – I often take the example of my very urban constituency, in Toulouse: on territories separated by hundreds of meters, the realities of life can be very different. Today, we must offer solutions to everyone, wherever they come from, wherever they are, wherever they have been. The bill we are looking at today is primarily about building more, better and cheaper by empowering professionals to be more effective, by simplifying procedures and standards, and by fighting abuse, among other things. The aim is to produce quality and affordable housing, especially in the most tense sectors. The text also aims to strengthen social housing and ensure that everyone can have the housing that meets their needs, which evolves: mobility in the social park, intergenerational mix, fight against unworthy housing and sleep merchants. In this case, these are not just words but acts, since we will strike them in the wallet with the creation of a presumption of income, as for drug traffickers or counterfeits. For the most fragile, we are defending measures relating to the requisitioning of offices, the temporary occupation and the transformation of offices into housing: we have adopted in committee an amendment aimed at increasing the building bonus and making this operation much more attractive, always with the aim of being more efficient and providing concrete solutions. Another key measure in this bill is the mobility lease. Emmanuel Macron's campaign commitment, this new lease of one to ten months will be for people with professional mobility. The La République en marche group has also reiterated its commitment to the law on urban solidarity and renewal on numerous occasions, particularly during the examination of the text in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The SRU law has made it possible to double the number of social housing units in 15 years, but today, in 2018, nearly 2 million people are waiting for social housing. I would therefore like to reiterate here that the La République en marche group will oppose any challenge to this law. Finally, the bill aims to improve the living environment. It includes measures to combat all forms of territorial divides, whether they affect the city's political districts, rural areas or even medium-sized towns. The fight against "white areas" of telephony is also a priority. We will also defend the creation of a housing digital logbook that will gather all the information useful for the proper use, maintenance and progressive improvement of the energy performance of the housing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, the text we are starting today is important. For once, a law does not create new constraints, does not oppose each other, and will serve each other's needs. I am happy to be here today, before you, because, like all of you, if I wanted to be a Member of Parliament, it is good to improve the lives of our fellow citizens. Housing is one of the conditions and I have a deep conviction that this law will meet their expectations, will improve their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u133	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u134	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes with great interest and hope this bill on housing, development and digital development. The hope that it feeds is all the more strong as it has been built collectively since the summer of 2017, first of all through numerous online consultations involving our citizens, ambitious and creative, who have made it possible to draft a text in line with their deepest concerns; then at the consensus conference on housing bringing together local elected representatives and professionals in the sector. Unpublished in its form, this conference has made possible more than necessary consultation between the elected representatives of the two chambers and all the stakeholders on this subject essential for our citizens. The examination of the bill in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which led us to debate over 2400 amendments for forty hours of high quality exchanges, has enabled us to make a significant improvement in its content. What is the finding today? For many years, the national housing policy has been inadequate to the reality of our citizens: despite the 42 billion euros of public expenditure allocated to it each year, our country has 4 million people who are poorly housed and more than 1 million who are waiting for social housing. These figures show that there is an urgent need to emerge from the infernal spiral we are experiencing: that of a continuous increase in budgetary expenditure through, inter alia, aid for housing, resulting in an increase in rents and, ultimately, the cost of housing for some of our fellow citizens. In recent years, the share of housing in household expenditure has increased steadily, reaching an average of 27 per cent of their budget. To opt for a responsible and pragmatic housing policy is to produce more housing while making it accessible to as many people as possible. To this end, the release of housing and land supply and the simplification of procedures related to the act of building represent a welcome commitment, fully supported by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Controlling public spending, although dear to our group, is obviously not an end in itself. It must be accompanied by an in-depth reform of our housing policy to facilitate the residential path in the social park and the private park, and thus work towards the necessary reduction of social and territorial inequalities. Our goal is ambitious: to provide concrete and operational solutions to the French to meet their daily needs. In a society where development, job search, social integration and family development are built from housing, it is essential that each of our fellow citizens, tenant, owner or future accessor, regardless of his or her situation, be able to benefit from decent, quality housing and adapted to his or her needs. Our country also suffers from significant territorial imbalances between urban centres and rural areas, from a spatial planning crisis which is illustrated by the lack of digital coverage, by the devitalisation of city centres and by many other emergencies, which include the protection of the environment and the development of a sustainable and energy-efficient housing stock. The purpose of Bill ELAN is to respond to the demands of our fellow citizens in these areas. Measures to free land, reform the social housing sector, improve transparency in the allocation of social housing, create mobility leases or simplify building standards are all measures designed to smooth the residential path of our citizens and thus improve their living environment. As such, the Democratic Movement believes that housing policy must be built around the needs of our fellow citizens, in connection with the territories and local elected representatives. We need to give communities their full place in the various development arrangements, particularly because of their fine knowledge of the territorial realities. If this text therefore gives us hope for a better housing policy, more adapted to the needs and geographical and social realities, we will not be able to conceal the too great discretion, as it is, of measures to promote social justice and accessibility for all to a stronger and more innovative housing economy, more connected to the territories. We also look forward to the consideration of a forthcoming text, the measures of which will be aimed at reforming property taxation. Indeed, we know the financial weight that land represents in construction projects in France and how land speculation can weaken the construction of housing and public facilities in our country. It would be a pity if the gains made in the act of building through the ELAN project were finally captured by the landowners alone and not all benefit. In the course of these discussions, we will also pay attention to the fact that the new urban planning tools and the new skills given to social housing organisations ensure the implementation of a quality living environment. We urgently need affordable and accessible housing for as many people as possible. Building more and less expensive must therefore be a priority to which this project will have to respond. However, special attention should be paid to architectural, landscape and energy quality. In doing so, we will ensure that architects whose legislation may call into question certain prerogatives are in place. With sixty-six articles, this bill is ambitious and proposes measures in many areas of the act of building. It is now essential to better adapt the measures that we vote to the reality of the field and to encourage personalized support of the municipalities by the deconcentrated services of the State. Among the adaptations that we will propose to you, that of the place of the communes in the new development projects will be of paramount importance to us. We wish to retain the mayors in their prerogatives and reintroduce them as first-rate signatories of partnership development projects contracts, particularly when these involve the implementation of projects falling within their competence. We also want to put in place multi-year contracts of objectives and means between the State and small municipalities, those that are just within the scope of the SRU law. These contracts would allow social housing production objectives to be adapted to the economic, social, geographic and heritage realities of the communities concerned. We also propose to adapt the necessary reorganisation of the fabric of social housing actors by allowing the State representative in the departments to organise a consultation in order to derogate from the thresholds for the grouping of social housing bodies. The introduction of such a provision is desirable in order to take into account as much as possible the population density and the specificities of the territorial basin concerned by the reorganisations. We will also present you with amendments relating to social ownership. While it should be encouraged, in order to smooth the residential path, it is also essential to consolidate it and to provide the first persons from social housing with sufficient guarantees to prevent a decline in their standard of living and the development, in the long term, of degraded condominiums. Finally, we will defend a rebalancing of commercial planning in favour of the establishment of local and artisanal shops in our city centres and town centres in order to curb the devitalization of our communes. The bill that we will be discussing also opens up other important chapters on topics as diverse as the fight against sleep merchants, facilitating the transformation of offices into housing, normative coherence and combating abuse. We fully share the objectives and will propose to the discussion some elements which seem to us to be in the direction of improving the envisaged arrangements. Before concluding, I would like to mention the fight against greenhouse gas emissions in the building and housing sector. The bill provides for the establishment or further development of various energy-saving schemes, including the consolidation of the energy-saving road map. Almost three years after the signing of the Paris Agreement, we believe it is essential for France to act to preserve its leadership in climate action. This obviously involves energy renewal, but we need to go even further by encouraging the vegetation of our city centres to fight the heat islands, using new innovative materials and relying on the digital transformation that our society is undergoing in order to move towards smart cities. Finally, the fiscal and budgetary aspects to be addressed this autumn should enable all actors to have the visibility and the means necessary for the implementation of the Government's housing policy. In conclusion, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supported the Government's direction and endorsed the need for a major housing, development and digital law aimed at providing more social justice, freeing land, simplifying and encouraging a stronger and innovative housing economy. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We will have to ensure that this is done in accordance with the reality of the territories and the difficulties they face. We are therefore confident that the discussions on this bill will enrich it for the benefit of a renewed, fairer, more efficient and forward-looking national housing, development and digital policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u135	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u136	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to make extensive use of the time available to me, as President of the New Left Group, as President Mélenchon did. I'll settle for a few points. Housing is at the heart of many policies, because it is the one that leverages to advance the cohesion of our territories, which is the objective that motivates many of us to act. It seemed to me that the President of the Republic was one of those, who declared, on the occasion of his wishes to the French, on 31 December 2017: "On the national level, 2018 will be in my eyes that of the cohesion of the Nation. Minister, Secretary of State, we share this goal with you and the President of the Republic. So we are surprised that you are introducing a bill that helps to do exactly the opposite. In order to ensure the cohesion of the Nation, it is necessary to mix. But you will never achieve this cohesion and you will break this mix if you assign all those of our fellow citizens who are experiencing difficulties living only between them. I hope that the parliamentary debate will change your text because, at this stage, the New Left Group considers that it detriculates the tools that make it possible to contribute to the mix. In concrete terms, what is it? Section 37 of this bill removes the fine management of the allocation of social housing. Indeed, the ALUR law has created a specific commission for the allocation of social housing, which brings together all the actors – the mayor, the prefect and the social donors. Because of its composition, it has an extremely fine knowledge of reality, building by building, which allows it to manage housing assignments as closely as possible, in order to guarantee a greater social mix and to anticipate, also, community phenomena. However, in Rule 37 you propose that this committee be abolished. You thus reproduce the mistakes of the past, preferring to leave the keys to the decision to allocate social housing to officials far from the land and the realities, who will have the temptation, which we have observed for several years, to group in one building people with the same profile and even, often, belonging to the same community. A second aspect of your text concerns us. Your project removes the priority given to social housing in the event of the transformation of offices into housing: indeed, you grant to all the transformations of offices into housing the derogations from the urban planning rules previously granted to the projects that promote social mix. There is no need to guess, Minister, Secretary of State, to know that developers will not choose to turn offices into social housing, if they can turn them into more remunerative housing. Finally, this bill allows prefects to requisition premises for emergency accommodation, including in the priority areas of the city without seeking the agreement of mayors, which will inevitably cause problems, with the concentration of people in difficulty. Moreover, it also reveals the lack of consideration you have for mayors. From an economic point of view, your project creates an "open bar" – if you allow me to use this English expression – for prudent investors. Today, block sales of social housing between donors must be made according to the prices of the estates, i.e. the prices evaluated by the State services. However, the ELAN law now allows sales at quasi-free prices, i.e. it blows up the prices of estates, and block sales of social housing to private companies. To illustrate the consequence of this decision, I will take two examples. Let us first take the case of a social housing building that would be on the street of the National Assembly, that is to say, rue de l'Université – which is not the case. With your law, this building could be sold at 1 euro symbolic, since you blow up the price of estates, to an American pension fund. You agree, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u137	No, I disagree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u138	Until then, I'm just translating what's written in your law. The U.S. pension fund will be able to keep this building for five years and resell it by collecting a beautiful surplus value, when we know the prices that are practiced in the 7th arrondissement of Paris. Let us now take the example of a social housing building in a troubled neighbourhood. The risk, in this case, is that no one wants to buy it, except sleep merchants. Mr. Secretary of State, you recalled earlier that you were an engineer. This is also my case, and on these two questions, because you are creating an economic open bar for wise investors, I would like you to give me a precise answer, whether you say yes or no. When you read your text, you understand that the answer is yes. You said earlier that the HLM money must remain at the HLM, but, with such measures, you are doing exactly the opposite. You allow private investors to make capital gains on buildings that have been financed from the money in Book A. We have another area of concern, perhaps more of a minister's concern: local communities. Your text leads to impoverishment of the poorest municipalities. Today, when a municipality has a social housing building, donors benefit from land tax exemptions over a period of twenty-five years. However, your text proposes to reset the system, i.e. to put money back into the machine, so that the same building may be exempt from the property tax, which is normally levied by the municipality, for fifty years. As you know, the state compensates very poorly for the land tax exemptions, since, instead of compensating for the euro, it compensates a little less than 10% – this is what Bercy's reports show. But I accept the motto of the former Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Gilles Carrez, who wants every tax system to be dealt with in financial laws. For all these reasons, and for others that I have not mentioned yet, we are very concerned about the direction of your bill, which, far from serving the cohesion rightly advocated by the President of the Republic, will inevitably strengthen ghettoization, if, of course, this text were adopted as it stands. It is also for all these reasons that, at the initiative of François Pupponi, the New Left Group has drawn up a counter-project. You will find variations in the many amendments that we have tabled, which I hope will receive a favourable opinion from you, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u139	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u140	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning our public discussion of the housing, development and digital development bill. The majority decided to review this text using "scheduled legislative time", a method that aims to limit the time for legislative debate, as was the case with the draft law on agriculture. It would have been wiser for the Government to set a timetable that was more appropriate for parliamentary time, rather than to move forward on a forced march. This has an impact on the quality of the debate: the role of the Assembly is not to give a democratic stamp to the executive texts, but to propose, amend and monitor the latter's action. During his campaign, Emmanuel Macron predicted that he would give himself two years to change France. Like a French Thatcher, the President of the Republic and his government break our social model and give the market control over our public services, our jobs and our daily lives. With regard to housing policy, the draft finance law for 2018 has endorsed a reduction of more than €1.5 billion in personalized housing support – APL. This is reflected today in the ELAN law, since, in order to compensate for the financial losses of the organizations, you propose the consolidation of HLM offices, the block sale of housing and the heritage of the social park. During the discussions and debates of the consensus conference, many organisations, including those of the collective Vive l'APL, which brings together seventy associations and trade unions, have made their contribution and have shown in particular that your text poses problems in terms of the quality of housing, the precariousness of certain tenants and the sustainability of social housing. We will see at the end of the debate whether or not you have taken their requests into account. Housing insecurity affects 14 million people. In our view, this text does not propose a sufficiently ambitious rehabilitation plan or construction plan. There are also no plans for suburban areas, rural areas and overseas areas, which are still experiencing significant tensions, particularly in terms of housing. In our view, the Government only views housing as a commodity. Two-thirds of the sections of the bill are aimed at reducing standards, and you are proposing that regulations be lowered in terms of quality, safety or accessibility. The remaining third of the items are focused on damaging the HLM system. Obsessed by the question of the market and liberalism, you have forgotten the essentials, the citizens and the citizens. But your political project will have a real impact on the lives of the inhabitants. Generally speaking, it is the architectural and urban quality that you question, since you limit the scope of the opinions of the architects of the buildings of France in the event of operations concerning social housing or when setting up new relay antennas. You plan to bring together the HLM organizations, which leads to the establishment of large structures that will keep people away from the power of decision-making. You are ensuring that representative and participatory democracy falls back within these HLM organizations. You encourage social park agencies to sell their heritage. They will have no choice but to comply with budgetary requirements and the functioning of the market, even though it is not their role. The mobility lease is a considerable step backwards from the law of 6 July 1989, which guarantees the rights of tenants. In addition to the precariousness of employment, the housing situation is compounded by the fact that people become temporary housing workers. It is estimated that 4 million people suffer from mal-housing or lack of personal housing, and that 12 million are vulnerable to housing, i.e. one in four people. Your plan for the construction and renovation of housing that you propose for these people seems to us insufficient. According to the Fondation Abbé Pierre, 12 million people are affected by energy insecurity. In general, however, there is no provision in this text for thermal renovation. With regard to disability, your text plans to significantly reduce the accessibility of housing. The Disability Act of 11 February 2005 provided for 100 per cent of new accessible housing, which you replace with 100 per cent of living accommodation, i.e. that can be adapted to accommodate a disabled person. And besides, unless I'm mistaken, we don't know who will be responsible for the cost of the work. Nothing is planned to ensure better living and housing conditions for Travellers, as Martial Saddier noted. With regard to victims of sexual and gender-based violence, we called for priority to be given to access to housing for such victims, for example through better enforcement of the protection order. Ms. Marlène Schiappa rejected the amendments we had tabled on the Sexual and Gender-based Violence Bill, arguing that action would be taken thematically, by law. We have therefore tabled an amendment on housing on this housing bill. In committee, we were told, once again, that this was not the right text. It would be more frank to say that it is not a political measure taken by the Government to refer us from one text to the other by avoiding the issue. For us, housing is not a good like any other, it cannot and must not be managed as a mere commodity. Throughout the discussion of this text, we will defend the draft of a public housing service and a social right to housing. In order to combat the precariousness of housing we propose to make the "Social Security of Housing". This idea, defended by organizations such as the National Housing Confederation, provides for a national solidarity fund as a universal guarantee of rents: by doing so, we will be able to guarantee everyone's access to decent housing. Similarly, no expulsion shall be carried out without a rehousing solution. In order to meet the need for housing and to combat rising prices, we would have proposed a broad public investment plan to build 200,000 social housing units per year and 16,000 student housing units. We would also have proposed mobilizing the private park by capping rents and fighting the scandalous practices of sleep merchants. We would have proposed to fight speculation by taxing platforms such as Airbnb more and by removing the fiscal niches of the Pinel scheme. A more ambitious project would have been needed to respond to the housing crisis that directly affects one in six French citizens. Many of our fellow citizens live in unworthy conditions, which has consequences for their social lives and for the education and health of the children concerned. [[Mrs Danielle Obono applauds]] We will propose amendments to improve this text and, contrary to what happened in committee, after Mr Mélenchon's excellent speech, we hope that the amendments will be accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u141	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u142	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, rapporteurs, the first intervention of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will focus on the degraded private housing, symbol of the most terrible speculation, which plunges many of our fellow citizens into the impossibility of choosing his residence and locks them in unworthy housing conditions. The number of degraded condominiums continues to increase, and the phenomenon is aggravated by the extension to the residential pavilion perimeter, in Île-de-France but also elsewhere, of the capture by this eye of the cyclone, namely the sleep merchants, which is evidence of the failure of public policies, as the situation has crystallized in many metropolises, semi-rural territories even in towns or medium-sized cities. Much of this failure is due to the very late attention given to this phenomenon, although it is known and recognised, not to mention the numerous legal, administrative or financial obstacles. A careful examination of the situation of the most well-known degraded condominiums reveals the extent of the difficulties faced by the public authorities in taking action and achieving results. This is the nest of vipers where those whom we call the owners more than indelicacies, the sleep merchants thrive. Jean-Louis Borloo, each of whom will name him several times in the course of these debates, considers that, if public policies stick to this rate of effort, we still have more than thirty years to do, if only to start an exit from the particularly enkyst situations we know. "You have to go much faster, and make a lot stronger," he says. In the present case, these proposals, which were appreciably appreciated by the elected representatives faced with this situation, were intended, by taking the bull by the horns, to put in place arrangements to purchase as soon as possible the 100,000 dwellings now affected by the deterioration of the condominiums, and thus to fight against the sleep merchants. Unfortunately, the political timetable for proposals, accompanied by the necessary tools to speed up the resorption of degraded condominiums, has been substantially delayed and we remain in expectation of our ability to put a definitive blow at the end of these urban cysts, where sleep merchants thrive. In addition, this bill contains provisions that leave us perplexed by aggravating, in our view, situations that are already very delicate. In particular, I am thinking of two measures, largely commented on by our colleague François Pupponi: the block sale of social housing, which germinates the creation of new degraded condominiums where companies with speculative aims can prosper, but also the lease mobility, of which Stéphane Peu will speak more at length, and which seems to us a potential crucible, with insufficient guarantees, if not no guarantee, for the development of the action of indelicate owners or organized sleep merchants. These two provisions make us fear the worst, especially if we fail to clear up the serious situations that exist. In this context, I come to the articles which provide for measures to combat sleep merchants. I won't do it to you to consider your engagement on the ground as null and void. The tools you are proposing, we have agreed, could make significant progress. As such, we have recognized with Mr. Little that you have been particularly careful, following our bill, to incorporate amendments that would strengthen an arsenal of preventive measures and sanctions, in order to empower elected officials to act effectively. There is still one stumbling block: the role of the administrative police. It seems to us decisive that the fight against this phenomenon should be carried out within the framework of the mayor's responsibilities. Of course, we are in favour of harmonising and simplifying existing measures, but it would seem useful to us to preserve the mayor's ability to act under his prerogatives and his knowledge of the ground. You may feel that the short cut is excessive, but the difficulties that mayors face in promoting their urban renewal projects, now at the forefront of the EPCI, reinforce our determination to advocate the maintenance of the mayor's administrative police in this area. Even if we record with satisfaction, as I have pointed out, the provisions that you are about to adopt, we will therefore have this debate, taking into account the measures that we ourselves have proposed in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I repeat: the progress made in the text will undoubtedly prove insufficient in view of the scale of the phenomenon, the delay already made in this regard and the provisions contained in the general scheme of the text, which, unfortunately, risks consolidating a phenomenon on which we will probably have to return during the quinquennium. The stakes, in fact, are fundamental for the inhabitants of our popular neighborhoods who are confronted with a situation of non-choice and therefore delivered to these merchants of human flesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u143	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-30-O1238.u144	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further discussion of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
