ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the additional protocol to the Franco-German agreement on the cross-border use of aircraft (No 670, 843). As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u2	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u3	The next item is the debate on the bill, as amended by the Senate, on the protection of personal data (No.809, 860).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u4	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u5	Mr President, Madam rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly is seized with the draft law on the protection of personal data. This new reading comes after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee which met last Friday. I will not go back to the conditions of this failure; The rapporteur will certainly recall the circumstances. The Government would naturally have preferred that the two assemblies could agree on a text of such importance both for our individual freedoms and for our economic future – this is its balance. But an agreement cannot take place at any price, and the Government acknowledges the disagreement between the two assemblies. It is true that the positions of the two chambers were quite distant on several points: the group action for reparation, the creation of a specific allocation for the territorial authorities, the exemption from any sanction in respect of them, the dangling of the proceeds of fines and periodic penalty payments issued by the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, the opendata of court decisions and finally the age of consent of minors – a question largely taken up by the media, although it is not at the heart of the text. That is why the National Assembly's Law Committee has resumed its work in the wake and has examined this text since last Tuesday, in order to respect a very tight timetable: we must in fact have a legislative text and its implementing decrees before 25 May! Essentially, it reinstated the bill as it was adopted here at first reading. It is the choice of coherence, and we welcome it. It reflects your willingness to comply absolutely with the logic of the general data protection regulation and the directive which this text aims to transpose into French law. The aim is to empower those involved in the processing of personal data, without over-implementing European law, while maintaining strong protection. To do so, CNIL must have a powerful sanctioning power. The Law Commission has chosen to reconcile the requirement for the protection of the interests of the child with the reality of digital practices, by re-establishing the provision which lowers the threshold of consent of minors to the processing of their data on social networks from sixteen to fifteen years. In fact, this proposal has been consensual in the House. You have also chosen to strengthen the capacity of citizens to act in the face of infringements of the protection of their personal data. You have thus restored, in its fullness, the extension of group action in the field of the protection of personal data to the reparation of material and moral damage. You have refused to postpone the entry into force of the scheme by two years, until 25 May 2020, and to submit to an authorisation issued by the administrative authority the possibility for an association to carry out a group action. This is an important development, which some even call "small revolution"; It is now a matter for the public, for civil society, to take advantage of this mechanism. The question of the use of algorithms is important for your assembly. The aim here is to strike a balance between the needs of the administration and the guarantees offered to users. That is the purpose of section 14, which we discussed a great deal at first reading, and which the Senate then discussed a great deal. We will talk about this earlier because we need to find the right balance in order not only to preserve the principles to which we are as committed as you, but also to allow administrations to act by using modern, efficient techniques. Finally, you reinstated the provisions – which had been ruled out by the Senate – allowing the parliamentary opposition to refer the matter to the CNIL, in particular through the group chairmen. The debates that will take place this morning will also allow us to refine a few positions, notably on Article 14, which I have just mentioned, but also on the freedom of consent – an issue addressed in particular by Éric Bothorel – and the necessary adaptation of our competition law to digital technology. This last question, which is topical, has its full place in our debates, but it goes beyond the scope of this text, as you have often mentioned, Madam rapporteur. The Government will therefore subsequently carry out other very important work on this issue, in collaboration with this Assembly, the European Commission and the European Parliament. All issues relating to the regulation of platforms are fully covered by this text. In conclusion, I would like to go back to what I said at first reading before you. Some find this bill too technical, too complicated, too far from the reality of people. Yet it is eminently political because it carries our values, European and French values. It is a powerful way to tell our fellow citizens that we can take back our own digital future. In this respect, there is a French model, a European model, and the news shows that other continents are watching us. This bill invites everyone to question the use of their personal data, both by themselves and by businesses – small or large – and by public authorities. This text invites everyone to assume their responsibilities and to consider that digital is now an integral part of our lives. As we debate, the Cambridge Analytica scandal has already made a lot of noise. Facebook is seriously challenged: its leader has had to explain himself to the United States Congress over the last two days. This text is therefore timely in order to draw a French and European path in the face of the stakes. By protecting personal data, we affirm our conception of democracy. Through your work, ladies and gentlemen, you have been able to demonstrate that Parliament has taken stock of the issues at stake. The Government and France thank you for that. For its part, the Government, in conjunction with CNIL, will stand alongside those who will have to apply the new data protection regime. Concerns persist, but this text should not be seen as a new constraint: on the contrary, it is the opportunity to take a new, responsible, fair and effective look at data protection. I am confident that our discussions will make an important contribution to this essential objective. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] They have already made these issues more visible: the French, Europeans are becoming more and more aware of its importance. Thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u6	Mrs Paula Forteza, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be discussing this text again in committee last Tuesday. We are working according to the same convictions that guided us in our work at first reading, convictions that are often shared by the majority and the opposition, which I welcome. In particular, we are convinced that civil society has a strong expectation of greater transparency on data processing and storage conditions. More information and protection is needed against those who, without the consent of the data subjects, use personal data for purposes other than those on whose behalf it was collected. In a word, there is a strong expectation of effective control of personal data by everyone. The delay in this area, both in the public and private sectors, must now be caught up in order to restore the sometimes shaken confidence of citizens in digital tools. This expectation is shared by digital companies, researchers and administrations – to name but a few – who wish to be able to use personal data in a secure legal framework, in order to develop their activity, to offer new products or services, or to improve relations with public service users. It must be understood that gaps in data protection penalize not only those who are victims of scandals – there is no other word – that sparkle the news, but also those actors, both public and private, who could make this data a useful use for all. I am thinking in particular of the health, research and journalism sectors, but many other areas are concerned. Too often, those who talk about digital are expressing themselves in the future, as if it were a world to come, even though it is our present. It is therefore urgent to collectively address the urgent challenges facing us. As a result, we can only take full measure of the paradigm shift represented by the GDPR, the general data protection regulation. It aims to empower actors and strengthen people's rights. This new balance will favour those committed to the protection of personal data while penalising those who, on the contrary, do not comply with the rules. The most important thing is that this new regulation should be taken at European level, because it will enable us to build an ecosystem conducive to the emergence of new practices. Many countries outside the European Union are asking for themselves about the regulatory tools to be put in place and are closely observing the regulatory changes that are taking place in our country, I would point out. Mark Zuckerberg's hearing by the United States Senate is the best example. In a rather symbolic way, it took place on Tuesday night, even as we were examining this text in committee. He apologized to millions of users for the scandal involving Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. The practices involved will constitute serious breaches of French and European regulations in a few weeks' time. This hearing has raised other issues that we will need to study in depth in the coming weeks, about fake news, or, more broadly, the platform business model, their regulation and fair competition in the digital industry. I am also pleased that digital technology is generating so many thoughts and proposals in our assemblies. The bill that you submitted to us, Mr. Secretary of State, has evolved a great deal, and it has been greatly enriched during the debates that took place in the National Assembly and in the Senate. In this regard, although the CMP failed because of the lack of compromise on the entire text, we recognize the value of many of the Senate's contributions. I have tried to keep most of it, in the constructive spirit that inspires us all on this text. However, I also wanted to see the provisions that had gained a broad consensus in our Assembly – I would remind you that the text, at first reading, was adopted there by a majority of 523 votes – restored. That is why I have proposed to our committee legislation to re-enact provisions that the Senate had either deleted or strongly challenged by substantial drafting changes. First, we have re-established the balance, found at first reading – with, rarely, the consent of all political groups – between the requirement to protect the interests of the child in the processing of his or her personal data and the adaptation of the legislation to the reality of current digital practices. While the Senate had come back to lowering the threshold for minors' consent to the processing of their data on social media from sixteen to fifteen years, I tabled an amendment identical to that of Mr.Gosselin – whom I salute on this occasion for his work and for his involvement – in the text of the National Assembly. Similarly, we have gone back to all the provisions aimed at restricting the ability of digital users to act in the face of breaches of the law. Indeed, in the current context of multiple revelations about misuse of personal data concerning hundreds of thousands or even millions of people, the restrictions imposed by the Senate on the extension of group action in the field of personal data protection were not acceptable. We had also worked extensively on satisfactory drafting on the use of algorithms in administrative decisions, which provided, inter alia, the necessary guarantees for the respect of the rights of the persons concerned and a strengthening of their right to information on the applicable rules or criteria. On this subject, the Senate has had a conservative position that is not understandable, aiming to restrict considerably, often in contradiction with the European regulation, the use of these decision-support tools. On this subject, I have a conviction that many of us share: it is not the use of algorithms that is problematic but the lack of transparency and the impossibility of control on the part of the citizens. These are only tools at the service of administrations, which often help them to ensure a more efficient public service, geared to the needs of the citizens, but whose operation must be published by default in order to remove any questioning or even suspicion. Transparency and the establishment of effective remedies are the best guarantees of regulation and, moreover, do not hinder innovation in the public sector or the modernisation and simplification of public policies. This was the logic of the law for a digital Republic, and it was the one that was defended by the President of the Republic in his closing speech on AI for humanity day. In this regard, I stress that the President then wished: "the State, as far as it is concerned, will make public [...] by default the code of all algorithms which it would have to use first of all [...] that of the Pathup, because [...] it is a democratic practice". I associate myself with this commitment and hope that the State will be exemplary in this regard. The Government had tabled an amendment to that effect, which would ensure better information to Parliament and, if necessary, adjust the legal framework in that regard, once the reform had stabilized. We have also restored the possibility of referral to the CNIL by the standing committees of the assemblies and the chairmen of parliamentary groups. It is indeed essential that parliamentarians be able to have expertise in this area, since the subject of digital technology is becoming increasingly prominent in the texts before us, as we have seen since the beginning of the legislature: a bill for a State serving a society of trust; ELAN bill, on housing, development and digital development; very high-speed plane; texts on fake news or personal data. Finally, our committee has deleted provisions which we have considered to be contrary to the spirit of the European regulation or to other provisions of our national law, and which also explain the failure of the CMP, in particular: the dangling of the proceeds of fines and periodic penalty payments imposed by CNIL, contrary to the LOLF, the Organic Law on Finance Laws; supervision of the processing of criminal data by private bodies, which would weaken the work of victim associations and assist with reintegration; the challenge of the open data of court decisions, which would have become virtually impossible to implement with the demands of the Senate; at the initiative of the Government, measures to tighten the rules applicable to police and justice files, often in contradiction with the terms of the European Directive. Furthermore, while the Senate has adopted useful provisions to supplement the information and support of local and regional authorities as part of their compliance with the new obligations made to them, some proposals were not acceptable, such as the creation of a €170 million allocation or the exemption from administrative penalties and fines. Local actors are in fact dealing with data that is very sensitive to our citizens, such as the composition and income of households, and there is no justification for restricting the penalties that CNIL can impose in the event of serious and persistent breaches, despite the preconditions laid down, as this would completely defuse those actors. In committee, we were unanimous on this point. It therefore seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the committee has adopted a balanced text, keeping the progress proposed by the Senate when it comes to complying with the new European regulatory framework, while maintaining the orientations previously adopted in the National Assembly, beyond the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have thus clarified the rules that will apply to public and private actors, who are waiting for clear texts to initiate, over the next few years, a profound reform of their personal data protection practices. I hope that our discussions will have helped to reassure them of the support that will be given to them by the CNIL, even if we must be vigilant to ensure that the CNIL has the means to perform this role in good conditions – and we will be able to do so when we look at the next finance bill. I also hope that we will have encouraged them to acquire new skills in personal data protection, and more generally digital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u8	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u9	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, my Comrade François Ruffin presented in this gallery the virtues of the research function, otherwise known by the aficionados as "Ctrl + F". It certainly does not make it possible to assess the consistency of a text, but at least to check in a few seconds whether it misses an essential point in the search. Unfortunately, this is the case here. While the whole world is shaken by the revelations of the whistleblower Christopher Wylie, this bill contains no mention of the fraudulent collection and use of personal data in order to disrupt elections. The Cambridge Analytica case puts Facebook and its leaders on the saddle: the US Senate investigates; the British House of Commons investigates; investigations are also being conducted in Germany and Nigeria. However, in France, we are debating a draft law on the protection of personal data that does not even touch on the issue, despite your last few minutes of assertions. While the President of the Republic is turning his world around and threatening freedom of expression by speaking of fake news, his government and his majority have not seen, or do not want to see, an even more serious threat to democracy, than a more insidious and therefore more dangerous threat to the very sincerity of the elections. This threat is that of the manipulation of consciences through the improper collection of personal information. Does the president of the world's first power owe his election to this kind of process? Is the United Kingdom organising its departure from the European Union because some of the sore points of communication have awarded itself the services of unconscious scientists? That would be worth discussing; That would deserve the attention of the legislator! But this is not the case in this text. I assure you that bad faith could make you say that by speaking like this I am out of the question, but I would rather say that this is proof that your text is out of the question. How, in fact, could it be admitted that this text has been completed and does not deserve to be referred back to committee if it does not provide the means to protect our fellow citizens from the use of their data in order to mislead democracy? Let me briefly summarize the problem: Cambridge Analytica, a subsidiary of the British company SCL Group, has drawn the data of 80 million Facebook users, and from them it is 250 million to 300 million people whose lives have been examined. Laurent Solly, Facebook's vice-president, admitted that French and French people are concerned and promised to inform them. For my part, I have a doubt. In any case, the tastes and thoughts of millions of people have been recorded, the information has been crossed, their personalities have been mapped, their intentions probed even before they came to their own consciousness. Why do this intimate espionage work that has nothing to envy to STASI practices? To realize the fantasy of all the despots: holding, holding or directing the hand of the people at the moment when they exercise their sovereignty, that is, at the time of voting! At the time of making a crucial choice, millions of people were subjected to a subreptitious matriculation, their intimate fora were forced without their knowledge. To free deliberation, free trade and conscious arguments, were substituted the indoctrination, the indoctrination of the skull 2.0 by the propagandists of a fascism of the 21st century, at the instigation of one billionaire reactionaire and Steve Bannon, the great friend of Mrs. Le Pen, the guest of honor of the congress of his party. It is surprising that, in the face of this kind of peril, the text submitted by the Government remains coi. But there is also a lack of treatment of material security issues and what must be a matter of sovereignty over the data of our people. Take the a priori very simple example of data centers. Today, our sovereignty stops at the gates of these huge black boxes where billions of personal information pass through and sleep, while integrated with each other, they give an image of our entire country, its population, its forces and its vulnerabilities. It is surprising that the party of the disruption did not concern itself with this subject in a text on personal data. The exploitation of data, the open data, this mine of growth at the evocation of which the thuriferaries of the start-up nation are ecstatic, everything that makes them shine their eyes can also and above all constitute the heel of Achilles of a nation, even if it is technologically advanced. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the officials responsible for the administration responsible for cybersecurity in our country cannot respond if they are asked where the health insurance data are stored, or probably if they are asked where the national education data are stored? While recent history should have taught us, it should have speeded up the action of governments to protect our people from all kinds of espionage, nothing in this text seriously allows it. But where, then, in which countries are the servers that host our data and what right do they depend on? "Abritent", the word is badly chosen since they are kept there as a pasture in a cold room before I satisfy any hostile or unfair power. Or rather, I have to bring a fix because I only know too well what kind of power has been repainting for years from the data of his allies... By virtue of an exorbitant legal and political privilege that our naivety, or rather our cowardice, grants them, the United States, through their plethoric intelligence agencies, of which the NSA – National Security Agency – is only the best known, have opened a table, at home, at the banquet of the data. In this regard, what was the role of the data collected by the NSA in the case of the sale of Alstom to General Electric? This sale has marked a real loss of industrial sovereignty for our country. Isn't there something to legislate for? Should we not include in the law the obligation not only for the State but also for private companies to dispose of their data center in the national territory, under French and not American law, free from the bugs of any kind? I will be told that the 2016 directive transposed here is making significant progress in the protection of personal data. I don't disagree. But it is enough to say that only a minimum of rights are guaranteed and that there is still a long way to go before we put our fellow citizens out of reach of GAFAM – Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft – and other curious villains. It is pleased that the consent of users must now be explicit in order to allow the collection of data, but still it is necessary to ensure that consent is not removed because of the complications that a refusal on their part would cause! When you buy a phone, you accept data sharing by activating it; If not, no phone. Everyone knows how difficult it is to avoid the pressure of the organs that live through the collection, processing and resale of data. How will we act to ensure that companies likely to collect or exploit data do not constantly change their conditions of use? How are we going to make these terms of use really readable for the layman? I regret to tell you that, after the vote on this text, the situation of users will not be very clear. And this is another aspect of this text which justifies its referral to committee: it does not have all the ambition it claims. An illustration of this problem is the codes of conduct that companies are encouraged to develop. Incentives are a poor way to achieve results. Let us remember the words of Emmanuel Macron, apparently on a completely different subject, that of the capping of the remunerations of the great bosses: as a good liberal, this one opposes the idea of a law that imposes, but to allow in this case to choose and rely on the morality of the agents is really to build on sand! Similarly, codes of conduct are unlikely to be anything other than a collection of pious vows. Where material interest and, to say the least, greed are put in competition with moral feelings, it is not difficult to judge that morality is in a very bad position. It would be better not to create conditions conducive to the emergence of dilemmas: we must not leave the choice between profit and ethics. The conscience of those who feel ready to fail or not strong enough to give themselves a code of conduct should be relieved in advance. It is true that the philosophy of your bill is to support the collection and exploitation of data rather than to put a clean stop to it. The idea of making the algorithms sweat gold arouses too much fascination to decide to give it up, even partially. But, in contrast, the most ambitious aspects of this bill highlight its untabotious nature. In addition, the use of the accelerated procedure is a further addictive to the normal practice of parliamentary debate. The CNIL had also stressed the hasty nature of the process, regretting that it had not been possible, for lack of time, to make a serious decision on the content of the reform. In its opinion, the Council of State itself had confirmed this state of affairs. A final argument in favour of referral to committee is that it is surprising to have to pass such a bill when our colleague Cédric Villani's report on artificial intelligence has not been able to feed him. Once again, the executive takes us on a forced march and ignores the work of the assembly. In the present case, there is very little to do with a report to which, moreover, the majority, like the Government, have, no doubt, given so much echo. In any case, this type of display seems to me to be very disrespectful of our colleague and of our assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] For all these reasons, you will understand that we are asking for the text to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u10	In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u11	We will indeed vote on this motion for referral back to committee because, as Mr Lachaud has brilliantly explained, this text is unfortunately not up to the current challenges in terms of the protection of personal data as well as the rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens. I would like to return to a subject that will be raised again, I think, during the debate: the hearing of Facebook's boss in front of the US Congress. One of the quite impressive elements of this hearing, in addition to what was said, was the ability of the legislator in the United States to audition one of the most powerful leaders of the new economy to hold him to account. He, having realized the stakes and therefore the risks he was facing, was forced to make his own mea culpa and try to reassure the public authorities again: faced with the power of the legislator, he understood that he was playing big. Echoing the hearings that we have been able to conduct in this House, one realizes the extent to which the discharge of its responsibilities, as this text unfortunately does – by depriving ourselves, in our view, of using all the room for manoeuvre offered by the directive to supervise or control, not ex post facto, but a priori, the protection of such data – can have serious consequences. We can see how, once again, the majority of the new world is unfortunately late for a century with regard to Parliament's arsenal to demand accounts, including the most powerful, whether they are French or foreign. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore call for a vote in favour of this motion for referral back to committee, which would allow us to conquer the margin of manoeuvre already available to our US colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u12	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u13	Our group will vote on this motion for referral to committee. Our colleague Bastien Lachaud gave a lot of arguments about the perverse effects of a hasty or accelerated vote on this bill, which had already been used by both the Council of State and the CNIL. A significant consequence is that observers and competent authorities criticize the future law, which they describe as an illegible text. A rule of law requires laws that are understandable and legible to all; This is how they become common laws. Moreover, despite the progress of this bill, which I will return to earlier on, it is in a lot of impasses. Yesterday, in the Committee on Laws, the defender of rights, on the occasion of the presentation of his annual report, explained to us that he devoted an entire chapter to the problems posed by the dematerialization of the French administration, detailing all the difficulties encountered by our compatriots in view of this dematerialization and the decline of the human in administrative procedures. One of the stalemates in this bill concerns the application of its provisions to administrations: it is only dealt with by means of a simple exception, a simple derogation, which will leave open the possibility of algorithms which will preside over a whole series of administrative measures, without control, without human intervention. All this has been the subject of amendments, which have been rejected. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Therefore, at the very least, a review of the bill in committee would be necessary. We shall therefore vote for this referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u14	The next speaker is Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u15	A remark to the attention of our colleagues, the La France group, which has been unsolicited: it would have been preferable, Mrs Obono, for you to present the motion for referral to committee yourself, instead of Mr Lachaud, because you took part in his last meeting, when we did not have the honour of seeing it there. Had he been present, he could have explained to us a number of the reasons raised in the intervention he had just given. In any event, Mr. Lachaud has the advantage of doing both the questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u16	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u17	Indeed: you were quite largely off the subject, I can't hide it from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u18	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u19	The wording of Title II, which we are about to adopt, is precisely designed to avoid the abuses which you have widely denounced at national and European level. I recall that this result is – it's a good thing – the result of hours of discussion in committee, since the bill was worked on first reading and then reworked on a new reading, and we will continue to work on it in the coming moments. We therefore do not see the point of referring it back to committee. We will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u21	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u22	I listened very carefully to what Mr Bastien Lachaud said. Far from me the idea of sweeping aside the concerns, in many legitimate ways, which have emerged in French society as in many European societies and which he has relayed. We will have an opportunity to discuss this throughout the general discussion. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, I believe that there is an urgent need for our House to work, move forward and move towards the successful implementation of the general data protection regulation in a spirit of responsibility, in order to take account of our European commitments. We believe that we must act quickly, that now is no longer the time to procrastinate. The Republican Group will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u23	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u24	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the protection of personal data therefore returns to our House for further reading. The time of the parliamentary shuttle, the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke out, and the leader of the social network Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, was the subject of vigorous parliamentary hearings before the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States. It is therefore timely that the current situation reminds us of how fundamental a democratic issue is the protection of our personal data of our fellow citizens. The La France insoumée group took part in the debates at first reading of this text in the National Assembly, through my participation in the work of the Law Commission as well as through that of all its members working on this issue. I would like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Rebeyrotte. Be aware that Mr. Bastien Lachaud has raised cybersecurity issues in the committee where he sits. Also know that, even if our group does not have as many members as yours, we are working together and cross-cuttingly, and that, collectively, we have developed a number of proposals on the subject under discussion this morning, in order to try to make your majority aware of the risks associated with the use by GAFAM of our personal data, directly or indirectly, as is the case in the Cambridge Analytica case. In response to this risk, we had extensively amended the text to strengthen CNIL's skills and ensure that it acted in the public interest rather than under the influence of the lobby of major digital groups. But your majority rejected them all, with one exception, perhaps. The passage into the Senate allowed for several changes that were in line with what we had defended. I am thinking, for example, of the re-establishment of a prior authorisation scheme, of the publication of the rules for algorithmic processing used to base a decision, or of the obligation to use a clear and easily accessible language concerning the collection of personal data of minors under the age of sixteen. The movement adopted by the Senate has thus returned to a system of prior authorization and not to a system of retrospective and random control. Moreover, it is clear from the debates that the Senate's La République en marche group voted for this text, even though it contained some progress which we had proposed and which, as I said, had been rejected by the LaREM group of the National Assembly. Perhaps you should ask yourself, Mr Rebeyrotte, the question of the coordination and consistency of your majority on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u25	For you the question does not arise: there is no group La France insoubted in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u26	The amendments voted by the Senate, which were therefore endorsed by the Republic on the move in the second chamber, in any case joined the line defended by our amendments. We judged it, and continue to judge it, the best way to protect fundamental freedoms, especially in view of the limited resources of CNIL. We said so, and Senator Loïc Hervé, a member of the Centralist Union group – and therefore we cannot be suspected of complacency with us – said: "This bill is not a technical text, it is a political text. The argument of urgency, of the need for transposition into haste, must not forget this dimension. As we have said and say again, the drafting of the text has from the beginning a political logic that we are contesting: to want to move from a logic of prior authorization to a logic of control, in order to offer big data companies opportunities to do business. Yes, complementary protections could and can still be decided. The correctness of our argument has thus been validated by the Senate, including, as I said, colleagues, by its La République en marche group, which voted in this direction. Let me therefore stress, to deplore it, the inconsistency of the majority, which wasted time on parliamentary representation, with the failure of the CMP. It is even more regrettable that, during the committee's re-reading of the bill, most of the Senate's additions that went in this positive direction were removed or significantly diminished in scope. While the suspicions of mass manipulations based on massive and unconsented data-gathering are breaking the chronicle and raising fundamental democratic questions, the text before us in a new reading is still, from our point of view, terribly unsatisfactory. It is because the CNIL's human and financial resources will not allow it to ensure a real systematic post-clearance check – since this is your choice, ladies and gentlemen – where an authorisation system requires examination. It is especially so because it is a hindrance to the race for the collection of digital data to reduce the intensity of CNIL's control, while the digitisation of our daily lives is becoming more and more important, the techniques of data crossing are perfecting at a crazy speed and these developments are taking place – this is perhaps the underlying reason for this paradigm shift – while the market for data collection is exploding. What a serious insufficiency, in short, in the face of the risk of a certain use of digital technology that undermines our democracies! This reform therefore leaves the field open for very large Internet companies to profit from our privacy – these very large companies, some of which already make profits in an amount equivalent to the GDP of large states. In their view, the penalties provided for in the bill, if by chance the CNIL carried out a check, constitute lucrative sums, which may be anticipated and provided for in their annual budgets. This choice of paradigm change is a choice of national policy, with the European directive leaving Member States open in this area. The Philippe government must therefore take responsibility for its political choices and not let itself be defeated, once on the Constitutional Council, the other time on the European Union and, every day of snow, on both. As for us, we wish to take our full part in this important debate and genuinely guarantee the protection of the rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens. That is why we have chosen to propose a short series of amendments to you again; We hope that they will find with you a better listening than at first reading, and that the clarity and consistency of our argument, this time, will win your full support. We propose thus: the guarantee of publication of the evaluation criteria of the members of the CNIL, as well as the evaluations themselves, in order to ensure greater transparency of the selection procedure; the publicity of proceedings in restricted formation, in particular with regard to sanctions; strict supervision of the CNIL's sanctioning power, in order to consolidate its validity; the possibility of increasing the price of fines, using the margin of freedom left to the legislator by the European Commission; the prohibition of private profiling for profit; the possibility of citizen control of algorithms. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Our group continues to appreciate the extraordinary potential of social, democratic, environmental and scientific progress in a non-profit and properly anonymized data collection. We call for the realization of a digital revolution for all at the service of the general interest. It is imperative to invest this piece of legislation, because this is where new tools for participation and collective decision-making are invented and invented. Ladies and gentlemen, believe that, in this debate as in all the others, we will continue to be actively present.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u27	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u28	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make a few comments on the form. I deplore the use of the accelerated procedure and the use of orders to rewrite the entire 1978 law, known as "computers and freedoms". Furthermore, this bill suffers from a lack of legibility, as the CNIL has strongly emphasized. Operators and citizens will find it difficult to understand the rules on the protection of personal data only when reading this text, which does not give a clear and precise vision. In short, we can only regret, with the Council of State, the missed opportunity to carry out a global review of the right to the protection of personal data and to deepen the rights of individuals. In substance, as we have pointed out in previous discussions, this reform seems to us to provide some additional guarantees in the protection of personal data. First of all, its scope will allow all enterprises and their subcontractors, regardless of their location, to be subject to the new legislation as long as they offer goods and services to persons residing in the European Union. While the European Commission announced last Friday that Facebook had confirmed that the personal data of nearly 2.7 million Europeans or people residing in the European Union could have been transmitted "inappropriately" to Cambridge Analytica, there is an urgent need to strengthen legislation in order to protect individual freedoms in the face of the development of digital technology and, in particular, of the US digital giants, the GAFAs – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon. While the GDPR considerably eases the pre-conditions, it tends to ensure accountability of the actors, who will be subject to much stronger sanctions, and to strengthen the rights of individuals. The CNIL will see its powers significantly strengthened. In particular, its powers of control and sanction will be considerably increased. First, its agents obtain a general right of on-the-spot control at all premises used to implement the processing of personal data. Secondly, the effectiveness of online controls is enhanced by the authorisation granted to agents to use a borrowing identity. Thirdly, the bill allows for joint operations by the supervisory authorities. With regard to the CNIL's sanctioning power, the regulation provides for administrative sanctions that are now dissuasive in the event of a lack of awareness of the provisions of the reform. If we support these developments, we regret, however, that the control measures attributed to CNIL are not applicable if the treatment is implemented by the State. Similarly, it is regrettable that a periodic injunction is not provided for in order to satisfy the requests made by persons for the exercise of their rights: access, opposition, rectification, etc. Finally, increasing control without increasing the means of the authority that assures it is a problem: this may make this law a simple sword of wood. That is why we stress the importance of providing the necessary human and financial resources to CNIL, in order to enable it to carry out its tasks, in particular its monitoring tasks. During the first reading of the text, improvements had been made. I am thinking, in particular, of extending the scope of group action to compensation for material and moral harm. With regard to changing the age of consent of minors, the lowering of the threshold to 15 years by the Committee on the Laws of our Assembly, together with the requirement of double consent of the parents and the minor below that age, and the obligation for data controllers to communicate in a manner appropriate to the age of the minor, seems to us a balanced position. On the other hand, some of the provisions we have denounced remain worrying to us. Thus, while the draft law reaffirms the prohibition in principle of decisions having legal effects and based exclusively on automated processing of personal data, it tends to introduce a derogation for individual administrative decisions. On this point, we regret that the majority did not accept the amendments adopted by the Senate, which sought to regulate more strictly the use of algorithms by the administration – apart, of course, from the so-called "sensitive" subjects. Furthermore, the framework for profiling and the current clarifications are absolutely not sufficient. In this regard, the Council of State considers that it is essential "to guarantee at all times a complete human mastery of algorithms, including the ability to interrupt the operation of the treatment, especially when they are equipped with learning skills enabling them to modify their operating logic without a prior human validation process". The objective of modernising administration and improving performance cannot justify the extension, in haste, of the use of decisions based on fully automated processing, under cover of the provision of some guarantees such as the information of persons or the right to appeal. For our part, we consider that the deepening of reflections and studies, particularly on the mastery of algorithms, is an indispensable prerequisite for any decision to extend the use of automated administrative decisions. The mass processing of data and the progress of artificial intelligence require absolute transparency of the platforms and algorithms used; It is the only condition, in our view, of neutrality. With regard to the transposition of the Directive applicable to treatment for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal penalties, it was regrettable that the Directive should be sub-transposed and that most of the provisions should be referred to the regulatory authority. The CNIL thus notes that the transposition of the Directive is carried out "a minima". In particular, the draft law could have provided for superior safeguards for the protection of data processed for criminal purposes, expressly provided for in Article 1 of the Directive. Ultimately, we will maintain our abstention on this bill. The advent of digital technology in our contemporary societies is causing more and more upheavals in the functioning of our democracies and fundamental rights. If the digital society must be a society of freedom, it must be clearly framed and safeguard fundamental rights such as the right to privacy or the right to personal data. The consequences of massive data processing, ownership of personal data, full citizen information, vigilance, control and control of algorithms, the place of artificial intelligence and so many other questions arise today, which should be the subject of in-depth reflections and studies, and then political choices that are not taken in haste.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u29	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u30	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering this morning at second reading the bill that adapts our legislation to the general data protection regulation and the 2016 directive on criminal data. The rapporteur has already detailed the improvements made to the text during her consideration in the Senate and adopted by the Law Committee of our House. However, the National Assembly wishes to retain the spirit of the text which had been adopted by a very large majority at first reading, and to strive for as successful a harmonisation of legislation with our European partners as possible, in order to promote the establishment of an efficient single digital market. The news of the last few days, with the Cambridge Analytica case and, this morning, that of the Dutch mutuals, shows how much this personal data package is needed. By empowering all actors, both private and public, the aim of this text is to respect the privacy of individuals, protecting their personal data. Even Mark Zuckerberg, before the House of Representatives, stressed the need to regulate, felt that the GDPR was moving in the right direction and said it would apply it around the world. The French are increasingly concerned with the use of their data. CNIL's 2017 report, released this week, reports an ongoing growth in complaints: more than 8300 in 2017. The report also shows that, while the CNIL carried out 341 checks in 2017, it mainly strengthened the accompanying measures with public authorities and professionals. Requests on its Need for help platform increased by 21% in 2017 and increased again by 64% in the first quarter of this year. Practical tools are available to organizations on the CNIL website: self-assessment tools, registry templates, impact assessment software, compliance packages. Plugs, videos, advice raise awareness of digital use among our citizens. The importance and role of education and support were stressed in our initial discussions. The Senate, too, has gone in this direction, highlighting, in particular, the needs of small territorial communities. We can only abound in this direction and invite CNIL to work on a guide, as it has done for SMEs, very small and small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. As far as business is concerned, the regulation allows us to move beyond the traditional paradigm of the licensing regime. The confidence in data controllers and their subcontractors now implies that it is they, accompanied, to the extent of their means, by the national supervisory authorities, who verify the legality of their processing of personal data. In return for this greater flexibility, heavier administrative fines may be imposed. All actors, whether they are responsible for data processing or subcontractors, can be punished. A contract will have to be established between the parties in order to define and allocate their responsibilities. I hope that this text will benefit from the most effective conditions of application possible. The high risk of litigation, which could scare a number of players in the sector and weaken smaller companies, was noted. That is why, at first reading, I tabled two amendments concerning mediation arrangements. The first, which concerned relations between individuals and enterprises, was adopted. The CNIL will therefore be able to raise awareness among the usual consumer mediators of the new issues in this text as well as of the new rights that consumers will be able to take advantage of. The second concerned relations between companies, particularly between controllers and subcontractors. We agreed to work on a solution to involve the business mediator, who already deals with contractual disputes, so that he could conduct pre-litigation mediation actions, preserve the solidity of contractual relations and thus avoid re-complaints to the CNIL. This possibility of referral to the Ombudsman has been confirmed. A meeting between CNIL and CNIL will therefore be held shortly in order to establish their collaborative framework as soon as possible. As can be seen, the number of requests to CNIL increases considerably with the development of digital technologies: connected objects, voice assistants or algorithms. We also hope that the legislator, through the chairmen of the political groups, will be able to refer the matter to the CNIL for its opinion. Earlier this year, CNIL published its first report on artificial intelligence: it shows the importance of an ethical and responsible approach that, in line with our European values, must differentiate us from our Chinese and American competitors. The tasks of the independent authority are multiplying.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u31	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We must therefore provide this independent authority with sufficient resources to enable it to remain in a position to play the role of European and global leader it has had so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u34	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u35	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met again to discuss, in a new reading, the provisions transposing the fifty-seven points of the general regulation on data protection which may be subject to national adaptations. The disagreements observed at the first reading between our two chambers, the National Assembly and the Senate, were acknowledged by the failure of the CMP, which met a few days ago. The Republican Group has already said that it deplores this failure, which is not necessarily foreseeable, on a text transposing a European regulation; But I am very afraid that the real differences between the text adopted by the Senate and that of the National Assembly have increased as the discussions between the two rapporteurs intensified and the spirit of compromise evaporated. Of which act. At the recent meeting of our House's Law Committee, the Senate version was largely detrigued, at the request of the rapporteur, so that we almost came back to the point of departure. The urgency now really requires us to find the solutions that will make it possible to adapt our right to the new European framework. I would point out that the protection of personal data is enshrined as a fundamental right in Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and that the GDPR must be applied throughout the Union by 25 May. As I said at first reading and I persist, the general data protection regulation is a real opportunity for all European citizens and even beyond our continent: the chance to benefit from harmonisation from the top, thanks to the protection offered by a single framework applicable in all Member States and to all companies operating in the European Union. The adoption of this text is therefore essential, since the protection of personal data is at the heart of all our human activities, be they civil, economic or political. Forty years after the adoption of the French computer law and freedoms and the creation of the CNIL, this is a major step forward, let us repeat. All over the world, we look with great interest at what is happening in Europe with regard to the protection of personal data. This text is therefore a major step forward, I said, in consolidating a common system for the processing, sharing and free movement of our data. The law for a digital Republic of October 2016 had already taken into account the problem of the protection of personal data, of course, but without covering the whole scope of the regulation. The bill we are debating is therefore timely, albeit a little late. The publication, in February 2017, of a parliamentary information report on the impact of European standards on the protection of personal data in French legislation had hardly been followed up, as our country was in the election campaign. Trust, the key word for the functioning of our democracies, our societies and our economies, is undermined by the succession of scandals that have already been mentioned by my colleagues, with regard to the data used by large, often American, platforms. The controversy over Cambridge Analytica has opened the eyes of those who may not have been fully aware of a number of practices. The use of data from 87 million Facebook users without their express consent, it was said, forced Mark Zuckerberg to come and explain himself before the US Senate and the House of Representatives, which conceded that regulation was necessary. However, many other scandals have already sparked the chronicle, and I fear that we will not be immune to further revelations. The GDPR is not the alpha and the omega, and it will be followed by many other legislative and parliamentary work, both in France and at European level, to complete the building and strengthen the protection of privacy, personal data and individual freedoms, but it is a much awaited answer, a European response, which we welcome. Let me turn to the details of our work, particularly in the Committee on Laws. We welcome the fact that the age of consent of minors has been reduced to 15 years, in accordance with the position originally expressed by our group. We are also in favour of the possibility of referral to the CNIL by the permanent committees of the assemblies and the presidents of the parliamentary groups on the proposals for legislation relating to the protection of personal data. Similarly, the clarification on the delegations of signature seems to us to be a good thing, as well as the new Article 13 ter, which allows for an improvement in the relationship between CNIL and the departments, in their respective roles. We regret, on the other hand, the waiver of the obligation of end-to-end encryption. The situation of local and regional authorities has been a source of tension throughout the legislative process and has led to the failure of the CMP. The Republicans hope that the new copy that we will develop together will find the balance, follow a path of wisdom and shared responsibility. According to the joint report of the two rapporteurs of the National Assembly and the Senate for the CMP: "There is no doubt that the territorial authorities, especially the smallest ones, must see their needs and specificities taken into account in the way in which the new rules are applied, as is the case for businesses. In fact, CNIL has told us that it will increase and increase the efforts to support actors who have limited means to facilitate their compliance in the coming months. » It was in this spirit of mediation and pedagogy that I, along with other colleagues, tabled several amendments on mediation, but not all were adopted. I welcome the new wording of article 1, paragraph 4, which incorporates the concept of "adapted information" for SMEs and local and regional authorities, which I believe is preferable to that of "personalised information". We hope that, in the coming weeks and months, the CNIL will be able to carry out this work in support of the local and regional authorities, especially the smaller ones, who need it so much, as well as our very small businesses. In principle, we are also in favour of the bold amendment by our colleagues Eric Bothorel and Cédric Villani – whose respective competences are known – on the initial configuration of terminals. I heard what you were saying about that, Secretary of State. There may be an urgent need, again: let us avoid procrastination and always delaying! Perhaps the sending of a strong signal today would be welcome. In the same spirit, the Group of the Republicans invites you to adopt an amendment to Article 19b, introduced by the Senate to consolidate the legal basis for the provision of services to municipalities and intercommunalities by other local authorities or public institutions. It seems to us that this is an interesting proposal to enable local and regional authorities, as well as their joint groups and unions, to conclude agreements between them in order to achieve rigorous and efficient services while at the same time sharing the burden. In conclusion, I would like to stress, as I did at first reading, the importance for the Republicans of the existence of a harmonised European framework through a directive and the general regulation on data protection. It is indeed at the level of the European Union, as we know, that the essential issues of data protection must be addressed. On the other hand, the room for manoeuvre left to the Member States to apply the GDPR makes it possible to adapt the scheme to the complexity of the subject, of course, but also to the political and legal culture, to the particular sensitivity of each of them. Let us make sure, however, that this does not lead to the opposite of what we are looking for, namely too much legal fragmentation! At this stage, however, this pitfall seems to me to have been avoided. The Republicans are convinced that the GDPR and this bill provide crucial opportunities and opportunities to move forward on the path of data protection and individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u36	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u37	From this point of view, I believe that a balance has been struck between the individual freedoms of citizens and economic interests. It is important to preserve this balance for our values and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u39	That is why we will support this bill, as we did at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u41	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u42	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of personal data is a major issue, which is increasingly becoming a topical issue; We had the opportunity to see this again very recently with the Cambridge Analytica case and the hearing, Tuesday night, of Mark Zuckerberg by the American Senate. These cases raise awareness – at last, I dare say – among citizens of this problem, although it remains complex to understand. Our role, as parliamentarians, including through this bill, is to inform, reassure and protect our fellow citizens. First, they should be informed about the rights, uses and risks associated with the processing of personal data. We must then reassure them because we must not have a manichean vision of the subject: the use of personal data in economic activities is not harmful in itself, and many companies, all sectors of activity combined, make consistent and justified use of their customers' data. Finally, we must protect our fellow citizens, and in this respect we must stress the European ambition of the GDPR, which imposes rules on all those responsible for processing, regardless of their nationality, when a European national is concerned. This is a world first; We can be pleased to be the actors. It is this European dimension that gives full force to the text, and we have already had the opportunity to say so in this forum. It will make the European Union a safe area for all citizens, attractive to businesses and give real legibility to the applicable rules. The stakes are crucial," said the CNIL President on the occasion of the presentation of this authority's activity in 2017: "Europe is playing big. It must demonstrate that its ethical and general principles are good. We have been saying that for a long time. But we must also demonstrate that the new system is working, that it is efficient, that it will provide economic actors with the guarantees, the legal certainty they are entitled to expect. Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin believes that it is a matter of succeeding "a bet" which must enable Europe to have "potentially a global standard". We share his point of view. We have had the opportunity to recall this on several occasions, the MODEM Group is particularly pleased with our discussions on the draft law on the protection of personal data. It is true that we were able to regret the urgency to which we are still subject today, since this text must be adopted before 25 May, when the General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force. However, we believe that this urgency has not been detrimental to our discussions and that the text we will adopt will be balanced, respecting our European commitments and also the specificities of France. Moreover, it is the result of a consensus in our Assembly which we can welcome. We regret, of course, that the Joint Joint Committee could not succeed, but we understand the reasons for this failure. The Senate's positions were, on some points, unacceptable. I would like to highlight one in particular: it seems to us inconceivable to exempt local and regional authorities from compliance with the GDPR. Enterprises, particularly SMEs, would not have understood at all that communities, which have a particularly large number of data, are not subject to these rules, applicable throughout Europe. Similarly, it was unthinkable that communities could be exempted from sanctions in the event of serious breaches of the GDPR; That would not have been fair. On the other hand, we are very much in favour of taking into account the specificities of local and regional authorities, as well as those of SMEs. In this regard, we welcome the work of the rapporteur, who has been discerning and has kept the relevant Senate additions in this regard. In general, we are satisfied with the provisions adopted last Tuesday in committee, which essentially restore the balance of the text that we had developed during our first reading debates, while maintaining some useful input and clarification from the Senate. We therefore welcome the re-establishment of the consent threshold at the age of 15 for the processing of personal data; We were many to share this position, which we believe is consistent with both the age of sexual consent and the maturity of adolescents. Furthermore, we have not really understood why the Senate wanted to limit the possibilities for parliamentary referrals to the CNIL to the Presidents of the Senate and the National Assembly alone, and we are pleased that the rapporteur has restored the possibility of referrals by the competent committees and by the chairmen of parliamentary groups. We are also pleased that the commission chose to re-establish the agreement that had been reached on the possibility of obtaining reparations in case of damage following a breach of the rules on personal data as soon as the law came into force. Similarly, the Assembly's drafting of group action seems to us to be more relevant because the approval sought by the Senate seemed unnecessarily binding. I would like to conclude with a point that has been of particular interest to us since the beginning of our work and on which I am pleased that a compromise has been reached: I think, of course, of course, of the question of school data. We have repeatedly pointed out that it would have been interesting to make use of the margin of manoeuvre allowed by the Regulation for the protection of sensitive data, by extending it to personal data processed by national education. It is a topic that interests large companies, such as Google and Microsoft, that develop educational tools for teachers and students. Therefore, it seemed essential to us to further protect the school data and, through them, the pupils' personal data. We agreed, Madam rapporteur, to work together to find a wording that would be suitable for everyone, and I am particularly pleased that this promise has been fulfilled. The Senate, it should be pointed out, has been attentive to this issue and has proposed a wording that we have improved on your proposal during the committee review by adopting a new version of Rule 14 bis A. It therefore requires schools to be transparent in the processing of school data; It is a step forward that I felt essential to stress here. The draft law on the protection of personal data is a major text, the importance of which may not be measured by all. I am sure that it will have lasting consequences and that it will set the European Union as a forerunner in this area, and that other countries on all continents will follow its example. Finally, the Senate's threat, if I may say so, to refer the text to the Constitutional Council should not be seen as such; On the contrary, it would be a good opportunity to definitively strengthen the value of this text by purge it from any doubt of anti-constitutionality. However, in such cases, Mr Secretary of State, we would be grateful if you could ask the Council to give its opinion very quickly so that the law can be applied on time. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the MODEM Group supports this text with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u43	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u44	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, without going back to what has been said earlier in this rostrum, I too can only recall the current situation. Indeed, while Mark Zuckerberg was invited to explain himself, the day before yesterday, before the US Senate, about the 87 million Facebook accounts illegally operated by Cambridge Analytica, the transposition into our national law of the new European data protection requirements seems more welcome than ever. In many ways, humanity's inevitable data entry raises many legitimate challenges and questions as to how to share, use and protect the most sensitive data. In this area, perhaps more than in another, national and Community legislation is different as long as it undermines their effectiveness. While personal data is of concern to individuals and public authorities, it is of interest to digital giants who willingly associate them with market value once they are collected, analyzed and processed. In an increasingly dense and globalised digital environment, we can welcome the fact that this debate has been brought to the European level, which is undeniably the most relevant level for the protection of personal data within a unified legal framework. The European data protection package operates the necessary dust removal of the 1978 computer law and freedoms. While this law has undeniably made France a forerunner in the field of personal data protection, it must be noted that, forty years later, in the light of developments, or rather of revolutions, our advance has lost some of its superb. As legislators, we can once again regret the urgent consideration of such an important text, with technical and complex provisions, which left room for manoeuvre in its transposition into national law. The subject is indeed broad and will undoubtedly concern other legislative mechanisms which will question the political, economic, ethical and philosophical dimensions of the digitisation of our society. As proof of the complexity of the issues surrounding this text, the Joint Joint Committee, meeting last week, failed to reach agreement on the remaining provisions. It must be admitted that the task is difficult, as we must reconcile sometimes divergent uses and interests: those of our fellow citizens, of course, but also those of our companies, and especially of the TPE-SMEs, not to mention those of our local and regional authorities. We all regret this failure, not only because it may lead us to exceed the deadline for transposition, but above all because the strengthening of the protection of personal data is urgent, bears witness to the current situation. However, we should not exacerbate the differences that remain with our honourable senators, not because they are not important, but because, basically, if consensus is not possible in the short term, a compromise would probably be possible. Whether it is the specific nature of the local authorities, the age limit for the consent of minors to the processing of their data on social networks, the extension of the scope of group action to the reparation of material and moral damage, the strengthening of protection against profiling, the referral to the CNIL on a bill, the bending of the proceeds of fines and periodic penalty payments, the supervision of the processing of criminal data by private bodies or the rules applicable to police and judicial files, I am convinced that parliamentarians will be able to agree. Indeed, we pursue the same objective: to preserve, if not restore, a balance between the accountability of data-processing actors and the rights of citizens to the data they own. Therefore, our group can only support the referral to the CNIL by the chairmen of the committees and parliamentary groups on the proposals for legislation on the protection of personal data, a provision aimed at strengthening the powers of Parliament on a subject which, obviously, will occupy a significant part of many future texts. In order to guide the legislator's thinking, it is necessary for him to be able to fully understand the issues related to digital technology and the protection of individual freedoms, hence the value of using such expertise. On another subject, and in accordance with the room for manoeuvre provided by the European Rules of Procedure, we welcome the fact that both the Senate and the National Assembly have called for the introduction into domestic law of a mechanism enabling associations to act as a group and ultimately obtain compensation for material or moral damage. At this stage, stumbling-blocks with the upper chamber relate to the entry into force of the device and the conditioning of an approval by the administrative authority. We support the drafting of our Assembly and consider that the two-year deadline for the entry into force of the system is not sufficiently justified and that the requirement for approval by the administrative authority is contrary to the spirit behind this text, namely the strengthening of citizens' prerogatives in the face of the shortcomings of data controllers. On these points too, I have no doubt that we can reach agreement at the end of this second reading. As for the legal age of consent of minors on the Internet and their ability to consent alone to the processing of data concerning them on social networks and other platforms, we again rely on the opinion of our rapporteur. The Regulation leaves the possibility for States to derogate from the default fixing of this age by allowing this threshold to be reduced to 13 years. We find it wise and appropriate to set it at fifteen years of age, while making it conditional on the obligation of the controllers to communicate in a manner appropriate to the age of the minor. This provision, made following a thorough consultation of child protection associations and digital companies, reconciles both the requirement for the protection of minors on the Internet and the reality of their already very effective presence on social networks. Rest assured, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to all the provisions that remain under discussion, but I should like, through these examples, to remind you, given the importance and complexity of this bill, that it is essential to communicate clearly and pedagogically with our fellow citizens and entrepreneurs in order to invite them to take full measure of the new legislative framework in which they will evolve in the near future and that it is up to us to fix with pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u45	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we were indeed surprised that the Joint Joint Committee could not reach a text which required urgency and which could, it was our conviction, make a broad consensus. We could have concluded on several points, but very quickly the question of the exemption of local and regional authorities came up. We are very attentive to what the Senate says or writes about the management of these institutions, given the specific nature of this institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u47	That's his role!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u48	We had reached agreement on the issue of community information, with a view to ensuring that communities were as well informed as SMEs or other businesses, as well as on the issue of their support. But to exempt local and regional authorities would first empty the text of some of its content and tell Europe that some French actors would be exempt from these common obligations. It would also, we sincerely believe, endanger the mayors and the presidents of the intercommunities. Indeed, it is very important that in our small communities, town hall secretaries, as well as elected officials, be made aware of these issues. This is essential and we will not escape it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u50	Large communities, which have more than 250 agents and developed IT services, with at least five or six people, should have a personal data protection officer to monitor, alongside elected officials and services, the major issues surrounding the management of information and files. This seems to us all the more important to both the members of the services and the elected representatives of the local and regional authorities to be subjected to temptations linked to the commercial dimension of the data. In this way, we are regularly approached by mutuals, who want to approach the staff in order to obtain access to the files of our services. I am also thinking – and this is another major threat to our communities – of the risks of a political nature. One can imagine that a colleague, knowingly or without really understanding the situation, one day uses files for political purposes; It would be serious for him because he should answer for it criminally. It is therefore very important that the services and, of course, all elected representatives become aware of the need for fine management of the files and personal data we manage. Managers must be laid down, management tools must be established and services and elected officials must be supported in this area. It therefore seems to us extremely important that communities should be subject to the same obligations as SMEs, ETIs – medium-sized enterprises – and large companies, who would have thought it curious, like Europe, that a binding, although protective, framework should be imposed on them, and that local and regional authorities should be exempted from this. On this point, we have not been able to go back. On other equally sensitive issues – the age of maturity and free access to digital technology, or group action – we could no doubt have reached an agreement through debate. On the other hand, with regard to the responsibility of local and regional authorities and the protection of their actors, it seemed to us extremely important to be able to move forward, including by imposing it if necessary – it is never pleasant, but it is essential here, because it is our responsibility. I welcome the work done under the leadership of the rapporteur, a demanding and important work that has been marked by discussions. We come to this second reading with some further progress, time, my dear Mr Bothorel, to find the words needed to translate the requirement of competition in terms of access to search engines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u51	It is time to conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In short, the text is even more successful and this new reading represents a chance to go a little further.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u53	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u54	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of privacy and personal data is a major issue, I would even say, in our contemporary societies. The news of the last few days, with what must be called the Facebook scandal, brings us new proof. Our country, together with CNIL, was one of the first to give itself the means to protect its citizens from too much intrusion into what must remain their private domain. But it was in 1978: forty years later. Since then, the omnipresence of the Internet, the rule virtually without sharing social networks, the appearance of ever more efficient algorithms have changed the digital landscape and, with it, many aspects of our daily life. Personal data are no longer collected only by the State and its administrations, but also by many other public and private actors whose power seems to have no limit – a power built, precisely, on the collection of data, real raw materials of the economies of our century. This is an area where borders no longer have a place: they are ignored, sprayed by these actors with global ambition. As for the simple citizen, the quidam we are, he has become, sometimes on his own initiative or with his consent, the provider of data that is at stake in a war as silent as it is without soul states, delivered by the new majors of the Internet. This issue has been taken up by Europe, which, after several years of negotiations, led to the adoption of the general data protection regulation. It is expected to enter into force on 25 May, hence the need to revise our own 1978 law; This is the very purpose of this text. But let's make it clear: this is much more than empowering the government to make legislative adjustments! There are essential questions, and reducing the text to a simple transposition work would be a serious mistake. Behind the chapter heads, which deal with such diverse subjects – I quote on the fly – that anonymization, profiling, prevention or portability is in fact hidden a real and profound change of approach: it is a question of completely reviewing the device by reversing the burden of proof. So far, we have had a system of prior notification and authorisation. Tomorrow, companies will have to demonstrate that they have taken all the precautions, all the necessary measures to guarantee respect for personal data. The penalties provided for in the key are without common measure with those which the CNIL could pronounce so far: a fine of 150000 euros yesterday, against 4% of the turnover or 20 million euros tomorrow. The CNIL will therefore be given new powers, which everyone should welcome, but I would like to suggest that it focus its attention on the Internet giants, which eventually resemble the Big Brother of 1984, and show tolerance towards small and medium-sized enterprises, targets that are often easier to sanction than the GAFAs. In these areas where the rules are difficult to control and implement for TPEs and SMEs, it may happen that the entrepreneur is lost, in good faith, in a true administrative maquis. Let's not forget it! Beyond these important issues, let us not lose sight of the ethical dimension of the debate. The data have become a strategic asset that economic actors are ripping off. But they describe us in our privacy and must be protected from the ever-growing appetite of these companies. So we need counter-powers. Everyone needs to know what we're going to do with the information they collect every time they connect, make a purchase, trade with friends, or watch a series. In order to do so, we will have to free ourselves from the grip of major groups, particularly the Americans. It is Europe-wide that this fight must be waged, by promoting and developing free software and by promoting cooperation between countries wishing to preserve nothing less than the freedom of their citizens. The almost complete control of algorithms and databases by Americans and Chinese represents a threat to our independence and a takeover of our destiny. I shall therefore of course vote for this general regulation on data protection. Whether it is an opportunity for debate and awareness of the dangers of the digital tsunami is not the least of its merits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u55	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u56	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting this morning for the new reading of the draft law on the protection of personal data, after the failure of the CMP. But the context has changed since the first reading: the Cambridge Analytica scandal – the name of the data analysis company that is accused of having collected without the consent of the social network Facebook the personal information of 87 million users of the latter, including 210,000 French citizens – and the apology of Mark Zuckerberg yesterday, before the Congress, clearly demonstrate that the European regulation that is taking place is an appropriate response to the stakes. As my colleagues have said, the National Assembly has largely adopted this text at first reading, with 523 votes in favour. He therefore reached consensus. It contained real advances for citizens and businesses, such as the development of opportunities for citizens in the face of breaches of personal data protection, with the extension of group action to compensation for material and moral damage. The Senate wanted to limit the scope of this development by two years, which we could not accept. The original text also provided for the protection of persons from profiling, which requires the transparency of algorithms; Again, the Senate has changed this system as a whole. Other aspects may have caused a blockage, in particular the Senate's desire to exempt local and regional authorities from fines relating to the processing of personal data, which I believe is incompatible with the principle of equality. I would remind you that the spirit of the GDPR and the bill is to introduce new rules for all, by easing the pre-conditions and by making the actors of personal data more responsible: companies, researchers, administrations and, of course, local and regional authorities. The latter process sensitive data, and they process a lot of it, that's a fact. Can we remove them from this protective legal framework? Before the sanction, we must see in this text a double protection: for the citizen, whose data are secure, and for the local community – the mayor, for example – who can thus ensure the quality of the collection and processing, often outsourced, of the citizens' data. Concerns have arisen about the implementation of the GDPR and these new measures. They are legitimate, but I would like to point out that all actors will be accompanied, especially those who have limited means to comply with the new rules. In this regard, CNIL is no longer simply a monitoring body: it is fully committed to the role of accompanying the actors entrusted to it by the text and has already developed tools for the benefit of citizens and stakeholders. This development of its role must be reinforced by the provision of additional resources. Finally, I would like to return to the health data on which I worked, at first reading, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs. On this point too, the text contains considerable progress. The principle of prohibiting the processing of sensitive data and genetic and biometric data is reinforced. Open access to health data must also help to foster research, innovation, improved patient care and the definition of our public health policies. In this respect, I cannot fail to mention the excellent report by our colleague Cédric Villani on artificial intelligence: "Data are usually the starting point for any strategy in AI, because their availability depends on many uses and applications. [...] At European level, several ongoing reforms must allow for better access and more circulation of data. And he recommends that we focus our efforts on four sectors, including health. Finally, I would like to say how pleased I am that, on the occasion of this new reading in the National Assembly, the Law Committee has re-established the provisions that we voted on at first reading. I would point out that the balance reached by the bill to modernize our health care system is not challenged either by the GDPR or by this bill, and that the bill's legal framework brings about a genuine reconciliation between the requirements of privacy and the public interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text is therefore a response adapted to the context in which we find ourselves, that of perpetual change and exponential development of personal data, particularly health data. We need to meet the goals set by the GDPR.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u57	Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u58	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the news is full of information on the subject which brings us together again this morning: that of the protection of personal data. The Cambridge Analytica case highlighted how a third-party application was able to hijack the data of 87 million Facebook social network users. What is now described as a scandal by many observers has not ended up fuelling public debate, both in the United States and in Europe. Beyond the Atlantic, awareness is just as brutal as it is salutary. The case deeply questions the acceptability of economic models based on the massive collection of personal data when this collection does not meet any form of regulation, as is the case in the United States. Mark Zuckerberg said this week in front of the American Congress: "We are undergoing a great philosophical change within society. I am very happy to believe this, especially since the technological upheavals that await us will be ever more intense and rapid. Because, in a hyper-connected world, where algorithms will be housed in our pockets as well as in the middle of our living room, and where voice assistants and autonomous cars will be designed to make our lives easier, the volumes of data in circulation will always increase. In the face of this prospect, the expectations of our fellow citizens oblige us. However, the observation is without appeal: they demand the maximum transparency and sovereignty over the use that is made of their data. Fortunately, Europe is at the forefront of this legal and political battle, thanks in particular to its general regulation on data protection. I will return only briefly to the broad guidelines of the text that we have the responsibility to incorporate into domestic law, because they are well known. First, the Regulation reinforces the rights of natural persons, through the right to forget and portability, and facilitates the exercise of these rights at the judicial level. The privacy by default and privacy by design provisions and guarantees of free and informed consent complete the consolidation of this protective building. Secondly, the text enshrines the shift to a posteriori regulation that empowers the actors manipulating personal data, in particular through the escalation of their obligations according to the risk to privacy and the use of flexible legal instruments, which are conducive to experimentation and innovation. Thirdly, the GDPR is a genuine instrument of European sovereignty by its extraterritoriality and by the deterrent nature of the sanctions it provides for. But let us not deceive ourselves: much remains to be done, and some risks threaten the progress we are defending. I am thinking in particular of the recent signing by the President of the United States of the CLOUD Act, which allows the US executive to negotiate bilateral agreements with other governments to facilitate the administrative requisitions of data held by digital companies, including when they are located outside the territory, all without real control of the judge. It goes without saying that this law raises many questions and that we will have to remain very vigilant so that its application does not circumvent the GDPR. Furthermore, while the GDPR draws a proper balance between innovation and protection, fine-tuning remains necessary to ensure that its principles are fully implemented in practice. In particular, I have in mind the need to ensure that our citizens have genuine freedom to choose their digital services, so that their consent is never presumed. This is the condition for re-establishing healthy competition between the players and extracting us from the threat of a "major systemic atrophy of our economy", in the words of Sébastien Soriano. Free choice, informed consent are issues on which we will most certainly come back during the review of the articles. I am not resisting, ladies and gentlemen, the desire to mention an example that has recently been brought to my attention. It shows how doctrinal differences between European authorities can negatively affect the ability of our citizens to consent to the processing of their personal data. In this case, a well-known e-commerce platform can automatically record the banking data of its customers from the first purchase, without ever asking them for their opinion, in full legality, because its head office is located in Luxembourg and its supervisory authority allows it to do so. Reciprocality is not true for French e-mergers. Clearly, it is high time to break up with these practices and work towards the harmonization of national legislation that is as protective as possible. However, I am also of the opinion that a protective framework for personal data is only the first, albeit fundamental, brick of effective regulation of digital players. The following are well identified: the need to modernise our competition law to capture certain unfair trading practices specific to the platform economy, or the need to fluidize the data market so that all players, both large and small, can use it to innovate. It is all these subjects that we will have to deal with, without ever departing from a global vision, because the technologies are in perpetual motion, and the breaks sometimes unpredictable in their time of execution and their consequences. Therefore, our legal and legislative framework must be able to accommodate their developments as closely as possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] For a digital at the service of the human, based on what could be a motto, from Helsinki to Paimpol, from Lisbon to Lannion: neutrality, portability, serendipity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u59	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u60	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u61	The committee maintained the Senate's deletion of Rule 1 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u62	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u63	[[Smile]] I am not unaware of the reason why this amendment makes the rapporteur smile: often, Member of the European Parliament varies, very much relying on it... As you know, ladies and gentlemen, I was at the origin of an amendment that required qualified CNIL members to combine certain skills. In the course of the debate, after reflection and discussion with several people, it seemed to me that cumulative conditions, far from improving the recruitment of qualified personalities, might restrict the scope of competence. That is why I tabled an amendment to that effect at first reading. However, the CNIL does not have much to do with sanctioning functions: it is the subject of the limited commission, whose powers will be strengthened by the GDPR, with new sanctioning capabilities, which are considerable – 20 million euros fine or 4% of the consolidated turnover. On the other hand, it has other functions, related to ethics and questioning about the place of personal data in our society, which have been entrusted to it by law for a digital Republic. Thus, cumulative qualities could exclude different perspectives – those of historians, philosophers or others. It therefore seems interesting to me that a greater diversity can be represented in the college of the CNIL. This amendment, which I hope, ladies and gentlemen, will receive your support, therefore aims at a return to the status quo ante.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u64	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u65	Unfavorable opinion. Indeed, Mr Gosselin, we have had a persistent dialogue throughout the study of the text on this subject. As I have already explained, it seems to me that we really need to strengthen the CNIL in terms of digital technical skills. For the moment, the composition of this body is very legal: of the eighteen members, two are from the Council of State; two of the Court of Cassation; two of the Court of Auditors; two of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. The CNIL is becoming increasingly a court, with the considerable fines that it can impose on the various actors, it is necessary that it be able to grasp these very technical issues. Given that it will also have a role to play in supporting the actors, in order to help them develop their skills, it must be equipped with these digital skills to ensure their transfer. As for the more forward-looking reflections on digital, they can be carried out in other spaces, such as the National Digital Council – the CNNUM – where more diverse profiles can be expressed. I therefore maintain that this provision should not be included in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u67	Following the rapporteur's demonstration and on behalf of this competence requirement, the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u68	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u69	I hear these opinions well, while still defending my amendment because, as you know, there is only the fight that we do not lead that we lose. I would point out that the CNIL services, which are on the front line to answer questions not only from our citizens but also from companies, have all the necessary technical skills. It seems to me, however, that the CNIL college is of a somewhat different nature. It seems obvious to me that all its members do not have to substitute for the services, nor do they necessarily have to know all the technical developments, as would be the result of the text. Again, even if the functions of CNIL will become more extensive in the coming months, given the application of the GDPR from 25 May onwards, and the latter has the propensity to be more of a tribunal – I repeat your expression, Madam rapporteur, even if it is not entirely accurate – many of them, although they imply technicality, expertise, are not "technical" in the sense that you hear it. They would therefore require a broader view than that of the cumulation of competences, which the text seems to be inscribed in the marble – if this amendment were retraced, which I do not hope at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u70	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u71	The reflection was conducted in committee and in session twice. Mr Gosselin's vision of opening the field of competence within the CNIL seems to us to be more flexible. We are therefore in favour of a return to the original wording, i.e. a replacement of the word "and" with the word "or", in order not to restrict the possibility for CNIL to have different profiles: it would be interesting if an epidemiologist or sociologist, potentially focused on the prospective use of data, could shed light on CNIL in a broader way. We are therefore in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u72	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u73	For our part, we will follow the rapporteur, because we believe that digital knowledge is essential, when the CNIL must, if not become a court, at least sanction digital and legal problems. Abundance of goods does not harm: if a person has a few skills in other sectors while knowing the law and having digital skills, his profile will be all the more interesting. It is therefore not a limiting condition, but a basis, which we believe is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u74	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u75	As we all said, CNIL's missions will continue to grow quantitatively and to specialize qualitatively. It is an independent administrative authority facing the major challenges of the 21st century, including the renewal of the software for the protection of fundamental freedoms to which we are invited in the digital age. The Council of State has shown this in its study entitled Digitalism and Fundamental Rights: The inventiveness that this paradigm change will gather requires a high degree of expertise and technicality from CNIL members. It is therefore necessary for each and every member to be there, because they are competent and competent, while avoiding the many conflicts of interest which may arise in their appointment. In order to ensure compliance with this competence requirement, the publication of the evaluation criteria and the evaluations themselves is necessary, in order to ensure greater transparency of the selection procedure, which also meets a more general requirement of transparency in the procedures for appointment to the administrative functions of responsibility. The existence of a jury and its composition meet the same requirements in the selection process, and allow, during the appointment process, several perspectives – institutional, professional, citizen and activist – to be met. This amendment, which seeks to strengthen an institution with an increasingly central role, therefore contributes to its credibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u77	Unfavorable opinion. We have just guided the appointment process in terms of competencies. This amendment, however, seems to me to go a little too far. We have already discussed this several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u79	Same demonstration and same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u80	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u81	The demonstration seems a little weak to me. After all the statements that recognized the importance and urgency of protecting personal data, given the scandals that we have known and know at the moment, consider that a requirement of transparency goes too far in this area, it is a demonstration of the lack of will of the majority and the Government, and a lack of consideration of deadlines. On the contrary, giving citizens such elements helps to reassure and restore confidence in an institution that will play a central role. It is a pity that you are not measuring this challenge and requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u82	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u83	It is not the transparency that we want to reduce. In fact, your device, Ms. Obono, which would set up a jury and a public opinion, would go much further. It appears disproportionate to the appointment process of the other members of the CNIL. I have already had the opportunity to repeat these explanations many times in the context of the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u84	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u85	While article 3 amends articles 17 and 18 of the Act of January 1978, in particular to provide for cases in which CNIL members deliberate outside the presence of Commission officials and the Government Commissioner, we believe that CNIL must also be transparent to the general public for some of its deliberations, both in order to exercise citizen control over the proper functioning of such an important body for rights and freedoms, and in order for citizens to be fully aware and informed of its activities. In order to do this, we felt it was essential to propose an experiment, namely that some of the CNIL's deliberations – in collegial or restricted training – could be broadcast and accessible to the public. In this regard, the secrecy of the deliberations does not apply in any case to CNIL, since, in any event, CNIL is not a judicial body but an independent administrative authority. In some cases, the deliberations and the taking of a fair sanction may have an educational virtue, in order to ensure that CNIL does not have the hand to shake when it comes to condemning a company with market power and nuisance, such as GAFAs – especially Facebook, to not mention it – which often make little mention of democratic and digital rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u87	Unfavorable opinion. We had also already discussed this amendment. We cannot go as far as you propose, Mrs Obono, because the CNIL must respect the secrecy of the deliberations. On the other hand, we had included the advertisement of the CNIL agenda in the text. The Senate had withdrawn it; We put it back on the table in committee. I therefore think that the device is sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u89	In order to avoid restricting CNIL's ability to decide and to preserve the anonymity and respect for the protection of certain personal data, and following the rapporteur's demonstration, the Government issued an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u90	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u91	Madam rapporteur, why don't you do little when you can do a lot? Let us remember the importance of the stakes and the dimension of the problem, still highlighted by the current situation. We welcome a first step, but if the text comes back to us in a new reading, it can still be improved. I regret that neither you nor the Government are prepared to do so. Unfortunately, then, this will have to be done again in the course of the parliamentary term, for matters, I hope, which are less serious than the one we are familiar with today. Your lack of political will will will necessarily lead us to legislate once again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u92	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u93	I hear Mrs Obono's laudable concern, which I share for a large part. I fear, however, that it will confuse the two strata of the CNIL, which includes a general college, whose powers derive from the 1978 Act, as amended in 2004, and a limited training, which judges and pronounces sanctions. With regard to this formation, it seems to me important, in the interests of the people involved, to preserve the secrecy of the deliberations...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u94	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u95	... as well as respect for the rights of the defence, which is essential and which will be even more so from 25 May, when the sanctions, far exceeding those which can be pronounced today, can reach 20 million euros or 4% of the consolidated annual turnover of the companies. Such discussions cannot be put on the public square. For the rest, the obligation to advertise exists. In addition to legal or regulatory constraints, a significant part of CNIL's deliberations is published in the Official Journal. This is the case for a number of opinions on single orders and authorizations. CNIL also publishes an annual report and regularly organizes conferences here and there. Therefore, while we are still far from the wish expressed by Mrs Obono, the time when transparency did not exist is over. I would remind you that in 1978 the independent administrative authorities, such as the Stock Exchange Operations Commission or the Ombudsman, were referred to as the "magic square of transparency". The concern for transparency was, therefore, already manifested forty years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u96	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u97	The granting to CNIL of the right to impose monetary penalties takes on new dimensions as a result of the new division of powers organized by the bill. The CNIL's role as a sanctioning body became one of its first tasks, largely depriving itself of its a priori authority to focus on post- sanctioning functions. Although we disagree with this choice, as well as with the logic of the text, we take note of the new functioning of this institution. The granting of a sanctioning power must be accompanied by a strict framework of the legal grounds for the sanction, in order to ensure the optimal protection of the fundamental freedoms of all. Our amendment lays down the conditions for the legal validity of the sanction, in order to allow not only the CNIL but also the judicial bodies, as well as the citizens, to assess the meaning, and therefore the basis of the sanction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u99	Once again, we have already had this discussion. The GDPR repeatedly states that the sanction measures must be appropriate, necessary and proportionate. I refer you to recitals 127, 148 and 151. These guarantees seem sufficient to me. It is also necessary to give the CNIL room for manoeuvre in the choice of sanctions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u101	To complement the rapporteur's demonstration, I would point out that the amendment is partially contrary to the text of the GDPR. The regulatory authority cannot regulate the sanctioning power by means of a pre-established grid, whereas the regulation gives the CNIL the task of setting sanctions under the control of a judge. These provisions remind us of the necessary role and independence of CNIL in this area. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u102	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u103	The GDPR provides for sanctions ranging from EUR 10 million to EUR 20 million or, in the case of a company, up to 2% to 4% of the total annual turnover of the previous year, which is expected to have a real deterrent effect on very large companies, in particular GAFAMs. Otherwise, they might consider illegality to be only a financial risk that is worthwhile. Since the European legislator has not exhausted its jurisdiction over the specific case of a recidivism in the state of the GDPR, we have the possibility to clarify and supplement the European provisions. That is the meaning of the amendment, which aims to go further in the area of sanctions, which would have a deterrent effect. The lure of gain and the pursuit of maximum profit must not allow very large companies to challenge rights and freedoms. The events that we have experienced will undoubtedly have an important – and that is happy – effect on the development of digital technology. This common sense amendment, which will certainly receive the approval of the committee and the Government, will strengthen the protection of the data of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u105	Financial penalties under the GDPR appear to be sufficiently dissuasive. We are talking about 20 million euros or 4% of the turnover, which allows the penalty to be proportionate to the size of the company. In a few years, the penalty has increased from €150,000 to €20 million or 4% of turnover. The change of scale is considerable. We do not think it necessary to go any further, especially since there is a need for harmonisation at European level on these issues. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u107	The amendment raises several questions. Is there a level playing field with the major international digital players? Are the penalties envisaged really such as to force them? Can they scare them? The 4% percentage may seem to be reduced, but, applied to Facebook, it represents a penalty of up to $1.6 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u108	Except that the penalty remains theoretical!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u109	That must dispel your concerns, Mrs Obono: such a sanction allows us to speak with equal arms with the very large companies and to force them to comply with the regulation. That is why, even if the Government, like the whole Assembly, supports your demonstration, it considers the amendment unnecessary. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u110	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u111	Although a ceiling has been set, both the CNIL and the European sanction authorities now have a real weapon. The amount of 20 million is very high, especially compared to the amount of 100 000 or 150000 euros previously applied. In addition, the publicity of the sanction goes far beyond its financial aspect. When some GAFAs – I am thinking of Google in particular – were sanctioned by the CNIL, the impact of the articles on the general public went well beyond the fine capped at 150000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u112	The punishment has a symbolic dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u113	I understand that stronger sanctions are proposed if the law is circumvented. But maybe we have to give time to the time. The text will apply in a few weeks. It will always be possible to return to it in several months or years, after a balance sheet. It is well known that such sanctions will not be imposed every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u114	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor to support Amendment No. 14, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u115	This is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u116	The Commission has deleted Article 6a.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u117	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u118	For the group La France insubmissive, it is important not to compromise on our individual freedoms and not to fall into the false debate, purely rhetorical, on the search for an alleged balance, which in truth undermines the protection of individual data in a disproportionate and purely mercantile logic. That is why we believe it is urgent to ban private profiling for profit, in order to protect the weakest part. Indeed, our finding is twofold: on the one hand, commercial data collection practices do not respect the consent of individuals, given the lack of information and automated processing; On the other hand, the use of individual data makes it possible to create wealth, which is done without the knowledge of users, by supplying databases. Our responsibility as parliamentarians is to create a truly protective framework for our rights and freedoms, which will encourage French, European and international digital players to invest in more virtuous models. Such is the meaning of the amendment, which is intended to supplement the article with two paragraphs clearly prohibiting private profiling for profit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u120	We are not in favour of banning algorithms. On the other hand, we want to make their use more transparent and provide all the information to users so that they can give their consent and withdraw it if necessary. The framework proposed by the GDPR is in the right direction. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u121	In the absence of amendments, I shall put directly to the vote Rules 8A to 14A, with the exception of Rule 10a, which the committee has deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u122	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u123	Article 14 more broadly opens up the possibility for the administration to make individual decisions on the sole basis of an algorithm. However, we have added safeguards to this provision, including a notification obligation. In the course of the discussions, the Senate and the Assembly legitimately expressed concern about the actual implementation of these guarantees, and laid down the principle of nullity of the decision in the event of the absence of the explicit mention of information provided for in Article L. 311-3-1 of the Code of Public-Administrative Relations. The Government has heard these concerns, although it considers that nullity is a particularly strong sanction which, moreover, is not necessary to guarantee these obligations. Indeed, the existing wording, by its amendments to Article L. 311-3-1 of the Code of Relations between the Public and the Administration, provides a sufficient guarantee. This provision has a very broad scope: it applies not only to decisions taken on the basis of an algorithm but to all decisions, including those involving partly algorithmic treatment, even if a human would have made the final decision. The device therefore goes beyond the very purpose of the General Data Protection Regulation. This amendment aims to maintain this principle of nullity – the Government has made a step forward on this point – but by limiting it to the specific purpose of the text, that is to say, to decisions taken in full on the basis of an algorithm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u124	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u125	Article 14 allows for increased use of administrative profiling and the use of algorithms, in particular by public authorities. These are fundamental themes for digital rights and freedoms. We therefore believe that the algorithms used in public decision-making must be subject to citizen control. In order to avoid the discriminant biases that can be introduced by many algorithms used by the public authorities, we consider that citizen control of the algorithms themselves must be organised with the CNIL inspection teams. In particular, we draw on the findings and conclusions of the report on how to regulate the content processing algorithms submitted to the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs in May 2016. The introduction of this control would make it possible to complete a first significant opening introduced by law for a digital Republic, which conferred a right of access and information on the person concerned by an individual decision taken on the basis of algorithmic treatment. The latter may request the administration to communicate the following: the degree and mode of contribution of algorithmic processing to decision-making; processed data and their sources; the processing parameters and, where appropriate, their weighting, applied to the situation of the person concerned; the transactions carried out by the processing, in accordance with Article R. 311-31-2 of the Code of Relations between the Public and the Administration, resulting from the Order of 14 March 2017, applicable from 1 September 2017. We therefore propose, by this amendment, to strengthen the capacity of every citizen, every taxpayer and every administrative person to demand accounts and to verify the nature of the data and algorithms used. It seems to me that this would involve digital pedagogy and the necessary transparency regarding decisions which have an impact on private matters, which are very important for the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u127	Mrs Obono, as often, I agree with a large part of your argument, but not with your conclusion; In this case, it does not seem useful to me to include this in the law. Interested persons can already access source codes, algorithms and study them in different settings. For example, CNIL had conducted a study on APB – post-bac admission. It would be interesting for other institutions, such as INRIA – the National Research Institute for Computer Science and Automation – to do so, CNNUM or associations to do so as well. In any event, it is not necessary to include this provision in the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u129	As the rapporteur pointed out, the current transparency obligations are very important. In addition, CNIL has taken up this subject and already provides a great deal of information. In December 2017, she published a report entitled How Can Man Keep Hands? , within the framework of the mission of reflection on ethical issues and societal issues raised by the evolution of digital technologies, which was entrusted to it by law. CNIL draws on the findings of this report, which deals with the ethical issues of artificial intelligence algorithms, for example in the context of the implementation of one of its devices, LINC – a digital innovation laboratory – and its partnerships with INRIA. That is why, in our view, it is not necessary to foresee this experiment, but rather to celebrate the work already done by CNIL on these subjects. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u130	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u131	If I may, Mr.Chair, I will devote a fairly long period of time to this amendment, as I did in the Senate. Indeed, I wanted to provide you with very clear and precise information on this amendment, which has been the subject of many debates. This will allow me to put the issues at stake in the discussions over the past few weeks into perspective. The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish a provision of the Act of 8 March 2018 on Student Orientation and Success, which was repealed by the Senate. In order to put an end to the opacity surrounding the PDB platform, the Government wished to reshape the modalities for entering higher education around two fundamental requirements that guided our reflection in the drafting of these provisions. The first requirement is to put the human back into the assignment procedure, excluding any decision-making on the sole basis of an algorithm. The second is to ensure the transparency of the assignment procedure and the rights of students. Article L. 612-3 of the Education Code, derived from the ORE Act, guarantees a level of transparency which was previously unprecedented in access to higher education. The law has a strong principle: the criterion used for the examination of wishes is the consistency between the candidate's profile and the expected training requested. The criteria for the examination of wishes are known, public, displayed on Parcoursup in the characteristics of the trainings. They are therefore accessible to all. This is true for the 13,000 training courses already referenced in Parcoursup, including those that are selective. Article L. 612-3 II provides for the publication of all the algorithms of Pathup, i.e. those which enable the platform to function at national level, but also the publication of the decision support tool which is made available to institutions to support them in their work. The main algorithm, such as the specific algorithm, is made public and, for each institution, all the criteria that have been used for the evaluation. Within the institutions, all measures were taken to ensure human intervention on each case, which was essential. The Law Enforcement Decree establishes, for each training, a wish review commission, mainly made up of teachers, to review and close the files. These bodies are made up, I insist, of teachers, i.e. human beings, women and men who will look at each of the dossiers. As its name indicates, the decision support tool, whose code will be published, is only support for the review panel of women and men who are experts in the subject. The commission may decide – some have already done so – not to use the specific algorithm. If the commission wishes to use it, it must then set the tool according to the elements of pedagogical appreciation that it alone can determine. It shall supervise its operation and validate its results. This parameterisation consists essentially of specifying, prioritizing and weighing the criteria which have been brought to the knowledge of the candidates. Only the wish review committee is competent to decide on the answers to be given to the candidates. Thus, the way in which the decision support tool is used is inseparable from deliberation, but this mechanism cannot replace it. No decision will be taken without the action of these human beings, in a collegial manner, within the framework of these commissions. The module itself cannot base the decision of the institution and none of them has planned to do so in this way. The decision can only result from the deliberations of the commission. Each file is reviewed individually. The work of these commissions is essential, as they must in particular identify students who will need specific pedagogical support to reach the end of their course. However, the provision passed by the Senate removes any form of protection from the deliberations of these committees. The provision that we wish to reinstate will help to anchor the role of these educational teams in the law and protect the content of these deliberations. This content, these exchanges and these debates are essential. In concrete terms, we guarantee each candidate individual access to the information and reasons that justify the decision taken by the institution – as I told you, the second of our requirements is to increase transparency, for the benefit of the students. This was not possible before. This is therefore a major step forward in favour of transparency. What criteria have been taken into account and how they have been assessed? On the other hand, without this provision, the formations should disclose a substantial part of their own deliberations, which are in principle covered by secrecy, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Council of State. Such a challenge would be very excessive. Indeed, without the protection of the deliberations, the teaching teams, for fear of recourse, would be led either to abandon the module of aid to the decision or to use it mechanically, without human intervention; In the latter case, while we intend to protect ourselves from algorithms, we would return to the purely algorithmic APB system. During the review of the ORE Act, the Government and the majority were committed to advancing transparency in access to the first cycle of higher education. For us, it is not possible to go back to the letter of the law, which was passed and promulgated. On the other hand, it is natural and healthy – as has been the subject of our discussions in recent weeks – that this subject should be debated, that Parliament should have regular and independent information on the guarantees of transparency of the new Coursup procedure. To this end, this amendment will enable the Ethics and Scientific Committee, whose oversight role is set out in the Act, to inform Parliament of its independent assessment of the legal safeguards in this area. This may take the form of a report – as stipulated in the text of the amendment – but it may also take the form of a public hearing, as permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will go even further, ladies and gentlemen: I wish to take a date before you, on behalf of the Government, on this issue. If the system were to evolve after a few years, it would evolve and the Government would support all initiatives in that direction. In addition, my colleague Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, who built and defended this text, is at your disposal – many of you have asked it – to answer your questions and report on the treatment of wishes in all the training courses during the first assignment session, which has just begun. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore propose that this provision be reinstated by adopting the Government's amendment. You will be able to reassure all the families in France who have already completed their files on Parcoursup and who are now waiting for their examination to proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u133	I welcome the commitment of the Government and all actors to enhancing transparency, which is a requirement that we share. In my personal capacity, I continue to question the drafting of the ORE law, but we did not have time to conduct additional hearings. We know very well that these reforms are under way and that a great deal of effort is required from all actors. We welcome the Government's willingness to report to Parliament next year, so that it can, if necessary, review the legal provisions and rework the text, so that it can be more in line with reality. We don't yet know how actors will seize decision-making tools: are they going to use them automatically or set them up in one way or another? Will the parameters be covered by the secrecy of the proceedings or will they be part of the source code to be made public? Subjects remain to be explored, and the question remains, for a number of points, where the cursor will be placed. We will follow this closely with our colleague Gabriel Attal, who has worked a lot on the subject, to see if we need to make any corrections to the law. Favourable opinion on Amendment No 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u134	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u135	I am sorry, in a way, to speak before our colleague Gabriel Attal, who is primarily concerned. The text deals with digital, personal data and GDPR, but it is clear that the university debate, which is topical, is getting into our discussion. Perhaps, Mr. Secretary of State, the video of your speech should be widely distributed in universities, as it would reassure some students, who manipulate others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u136	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u137	It would be high time to unblock the universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u138	And how do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u139	I hope that this plea, which is of interest to the rapporteur of the text on Parcoursup, will shed some light on this. What you have just recalled is important, and I acknowledge the Government's commitment to transparency in this regard. Having said that, even after hearing you, I am not sure that the subject is completely closed. Some concerns are inherent in student careers, vocational qualifications, higher education, job search and the place of everyone in society. This debate is legitimate, and what you have said will perhaps shed light on it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Without going over the brush, it seems to me that Amendment No 9 is in the right direction and, even if it is a break-up for some, I have no doubt, both have to do pedagogy. In any event, there is no particular malaise on this particular point today. For the rest, the debate is not closed, and a little bit of white-seing is not a quick sanctification. This is not yet the time to say: " Santo soudio".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u140	Mr Gabriel Attal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u141	I would like to thank Philippe Gosselin for his words, which show that we are all committed to the objective of assigning in the best possible conditions in higher education, next year, the bachelors who have expressed their wishes on the Pathup platform. We are not here today to discuss again the issue of student orientation and success. Nevertheless, it has been a major and historic breakthrough in transparency. Previously, with APB, the algorithm and source code were not published, while the associations demanded it. The authorities were pressed by the Administrative Documents Access Commission – CADA – and CNIL to publish them, which they had finally done, but in paper form. This shows the commitment of the public authorities to the transparency of algorithms. The new law provides for full transparency of the allocation criteria, since they are all public and searchable by everyone on the Routeup platform, a sector by sector. An amendment by our colleague Cédric Villani, supported by our group, makes it possible to publish the source code and algorithm of the platform at national level, and the decision support module used in universities at local level. In his speech on artificial intelligence, the President of the Republic said how important this commitment was to him. The way in which the reform is being implemented will be the subject of an extremely fine evaluation by Parliament. A adopted amendment requires the Government to publish all the data for the assignment campaign, which will take place annually and this year. The Parliament will prepare an evaluation report in two years' time, on the basis of another Government report containing all the necessary information. We are taking a new step forward in transparency with this amendment, as the ethics and scientific committee will have to report annually on the deliberations. The La République group will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u142	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u143	The Government and the majority are keen to discuss the current mobilization against university selection again, and that is very good. I welcome this mobilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u144	We don't greet in the same way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u145	At this very moment, a very beautiful general assembly is taking place at the faculty of Nanterre. Digital tools can be part of the political analysis of citizens. The current situation shows that those who are mobilizing have not misunderstood the reform, but on the contrary have grasped its political meaning, because it is not a technical issue. The political meaning of last March's law is to promote selection, and the use of digital techniques to make this selection raises questions and challenges, does not dislike Mr. Gosselin. It is not a minority of ultra-leftists, or what I still know: it is students, young people who are part of a process of technical understanding, but also of political learning of citizenship. Don't you mind, they understood very well what was behind the algorithm and this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u146	We're manipulating them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u147	They fully exercise their citizenship rights and duties. National representation should be proud that young people are so conscious, dynamic and alert. In any case, we in France are proud of it and fully support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u148	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u149	I don't want to get into a polemic. This amendment and the Minister's remarks are clear and transparent. We support this amendment, which corresponds to everything we have wanted to do on this subject and to what we have said in committee. We fully support the Minister's statement and, as Mr Gosselin has said, pedagogy must be exported outside this House. The demonstration was clear and will answer a number of questions posed by others, on the benches of this House and outside. This will certainly ease tensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u150	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u151	Our colleague Philippe Gosselin called for unlocking universities. There are two ways to do this: either by sending the forces of law and order, which has begun to be done and which is not a good news or a good way to treat the young people who, rightly, mobilize in these faculties for their future; or by opening a discussion, which was not the case, even when the bill was being drafted. Students are not the only ones who oppose this reform: many teachers do the same,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u152	There are a few of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u153	... and held press conferences and actions. There is a problem, which the Government should take the right measure. It should open up real discussions and stop referring opponents to this reform to the previous mechanism, which they were already contesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u154	I call Mr Eric Bothorel to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u155	I have already mentioned a number of this subject: this is what is called having a sequel in ideas. The purpose of this amendment is to break with the logic of presumed consent in order to prefer it to that of effective consent, by allowing the user of a mobile terminal to freely choose his online communication service by a positive act. Today, application publishers can sign agreements with smartphone manufacturers, in order to benefit from a preferential exhibition of their application, which can include a default display. By this measure, it is not a question of prohibiting the conclusion of such agreements, but of protecting against cases where they are accompanied by an exclusivity clause which would prevent the manufacturer or operator from proposing alternatives to the default configured application. In concrete terms, this means that each application editor will be able to request that its application be configured by default, but without being able to prohibit competing alternatives being also offered to the user, some of which are more protective of personal data. This measure is not intended to infringe contractual freedom. It only seeks to ensure that this freedom is not exercised to the detriment of the objective of protecting personal data, which requires the free consent of the user, and therefore the free choice of his applications. The wording of this amendment, which I am presenting for the third time, has evolved. It now satisfies much of the ambitions set out at the first reading in this House. I thank those who, in a very tight timetable, contributed to the landing of this amendment, as we say in our jargon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u157	I thank Eric Bothorel for having had a lot of ideas and for being patient. We have led to a drafting that is more or less suitable for everyone. As I have already said in committee, this issue of fair competition in the digital sector is much broader than that. It will therefore be necessary to work in the coming months to update competition law in the light of digital issues. We will have to look at the interaction of this law with taxation, public order and data policy. Colleague, let us work together on these issues in the coming months. I encourage the Qwant search engine to register in the register of representatives of interests in the National Assembly of the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. In public opinion and among our colleagues, we began to call this amendment "the Qwant amendment". This actor has called us a lot and called us, and this type of dialogue must be transparent. This requirement does not apply only to the GAFAs, but also to those with whom we share positions. I am expressing a favourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u159	This amendment follows discussions that began at first reading, continued in the Senate and continued for a long time. They dealt with the freedom of choice of users, particularly for mobile terminals. As you have just pointed out, Mr Bothorel and the rapporteur, this subject is much broader than that of personal data, which is the subject of the text we are examining today. It feeds on much broader issues and the need for a discussion on the role of large digital companies, which combine several responsibilities in our lives, because of their size and activity. These large companies have an economic responsibility, and you have just mentioned, Madam rapporteur, the competitive subject; they have a social responsibility, since part of the income of an ever larger number of people depends on an activity on these platforms; They also have a societal responsibility, as we see on the specific subject of personal data and in the latest scandals that have taken place, because they play a role in our society. It is now time for our societies and our right to adapt to these new economic realities. That is why the discussions on these issues should continue. The Assembly and the Government will continue to lead them, as will the European Commission and Parliament. I was in Brussels yesterday to discuss these issues. However, the GDPR could only address the issue of consent. Thank you for taking the time, taking this point into account, and for proposing an amendment compatible with the GDPR and introducing this more general discussion. The Government is therefore in favour of this amendment in its new wording. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u160	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u161	[[Smile]] I welcome this happy outcome, which was not written in advance – like that, perseverare is not always diabolicum, or then the devil is in the GAFA. More seriously, it would be wrong to foster widespread mistrust of the GAFAs. Even though I am very careful about these major groups, we should not risk maintaining conspiracy theses, which I do not think are desirable in our societies. On the other hand, the question of fair competition and abuse of a dominant position arises. Such abuses may result from a specific legal framework, or simply be de facto – as is currently the case. Europe must take these questions very seriously: the current situation reminds us of the great fragility of our personal data. Free choice is part of the freedom of citizens. This subject is the subject of the European regulation on privacy and electronic communications, known as ePrivacy. It shows that things are moving forward. Without being of course naive, if France could have a somewhat more singular voice, as it often does on these issues in the context of European work, it would be a good thing. Even if the amendment does not offer a complete solution, it is a first step and one that we can share very broadly on all the benches of this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u162	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u163	I am pleased with the discussion we have had throughout the discussion of this text. In committee, I proposed to Mr Bothorel, two days ago, to withdraw this amendment, the wording of which was problematic, in order to make it more compliant. I am glad that this amendment, as amended, can be adopted. I agree with the rapporteur: Qwant should have registered as an interest representative. We ask the GAFAs, and it would make sense for everyone to apply this rule. It is also in the interest of the GDPR to open roads. France, in this context, opens a door, as Mr Gosselin said. This is a good thing, but we have to go further: I propose that we work together to open all the fields concerned. We will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u164	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u165	[[Smile]] I congratulate Mr Bothorel, as well as all the partners and stakeholders. I also thank the Government. For all of us, this is an important step forward. "O tempora, o mores," said Cicero. And if it's round... It was complex: it was about finding the quadrature of the circle, but we arrived at a good port. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the MODEM group]] Above all, we did not want to take back provisions from any lobby. This is what we do systematically, even if it is complicated and it takes time. We must find the right words and ensure the legal certainty of the provisions, but there is no question of listening to a bell sound and working under pressure from the lobby: it took time, but it was worth it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u166	The Commission has deleted Article 17b.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u167	The Commission has deleted Rule 19a.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u168	I have before me an amendment No 13, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 15. I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u169	We are right in the Senate: communities wishing to pool resources for the implementation of the GDPR must be able to do so in good conditions, based on inter-communities, but also – and this is the subject of the sub-amendment – within the groupings that the regions and departments in particular have been able to form. In this way, they will be able to act together, and in a mutualised way. This Senate proposal is interesting. Again, we had to find ways and means, but I think we did.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u170	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 15 and to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u171	It is a sub-amendment of precision. I am in favour of Mr Rebeyrotte's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u173	The Government supported the amendment tabled by Mr Rebeyrotte, as well as the sub-amendment tabled by the rapporteur. He therefore called for the following amendment, tabled by Mr Gosselin and Mrs Le Grip, to be withdrawn. This amendment seems to us to address the Senate's concerns about local and regional authorities, which have been the subject of a very long debate. In particular, it allows for the appointment of a personal data protection officer – DPO – and gives local and regional authorities the opportunity to share costs and responsibility, in some cases. In this respect, I would point out that the regulation already provides for the possibility of pooling the DPO.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u174	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u175	The GDPR has the merit of raising awareness about data protection, especially our local communities, which, with dematerialization, have to manage a large number of data: it is a very important job for them. Our small communes often start from scratch, but they are organized. They turn to trade unions. They even think that it is not only about managing open data, but also about completely reviewing the management of archiving. Secretary of State, I sent you an invitation letter for a congress to be held in the Jura in September. It is organized by an association called DECLIC – Development of exchanges between local authorities in the field of information and communications – and already includes 7,500 communities working on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u176	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u177	We support the amendment and the sub-amendment. As I said in the general discussion, we must ensure that local and regional authorities are fully integrated into the GDPR. Being able to pool resources with people who will thus be able to be much more specialized is a good way to raise everyone's awareness. After discussions in the Senate, the issue of mixed-economy unions remained to be resolved. The amendment makes it possible to answer that question. The GDPR applies to local and regional authorities, and we must ensure that they do so. Mutualization is a way of doing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u178	The committee maintained the Senate's deletion of Rule 23 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u179	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 24. Mr Bruno Bonnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u180	[[Smile]] We share, with my colleague Eric Bothorel, not only the first and last letters of our last name, but above all a determination. I said that I would mention again, in a new reading, without, however, tabling any amendments, the problem of data ownership, because it is important not to forget it. In the future, and in the light of recent scandals, we will have to address this concern. The issue of property, whether it be moral rights or property rights, will become a hot issue. As part of the study groups, consideration should be given to how to assist the Government in proposing regulatory mechanisms. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I simply wanted to point out that this issue goes beyond that of protection and arises at European level. France has an essential role to play: the war of intelligence being, in the end, the war of data, the subject of ownership of the latter must be put on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u181	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u182	I take advantage of a catch-up session, because I was a little disturbed, not by manipulation, but by the legal consequences of the adoption of Mr Rebeyrotte's amendment, which dropped my amendment No 8. If this amendment has fallen, then at least the interest in local and regional authorities has not fallen back. Ms. Le Grip said it in the general discussion, and we said it at first reading: it is important not only to focus on small businesses, not only because the paradigm is changing, but also to support communities. The mutualisation that we wanted, and as proposed by Mr Rebeyrotte's amendment, is good for me. It is useful to set up a system of conventions, which will enable local and regional authorities to structure themselves and pool resources in a well-intelligent manner, and thus to better deal with the new and important obligations imposed on them by the adoption of the regulation. I am taking a step in the wrong direction, since we are discussing article 24, but I have been a victim of the procedure – which is neither unfair nor unfair. This catch-up session allows me to explain my approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u184	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u185	The latter amendment is in line with Amendment No 10 to Article 14, which deals with nullity. You will have noted the efforts of the Government to reach consensus; They must now be translated into operational arrangements. It happens that I am also responsible for the state's information systems. In order to generalise, guarantee and assess the conditions of nullity, I ask you to accept this amendment, which aims to give the administration the time necessary to adapt: the deadline will be two years after the publication of this law, and the nullity of decisions taken solely on the basis of an algorithm will be operational, on a daily basis, in July 2020. By that date, we will have managed to generalize these devices in all of our information systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u187	We insisted on keeping this provision in the text, because the notifications seem to us to be very important. In committee, we proposed an additional period of time, because we were aware that the administrations need time to implement these provisions, and we wanted to avoid a legal vacuum in this area. We understand that the necessary time has to be extended. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u188	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u189	I am, of course, in favour of this amendment. As we conclude our examination of the text, I would simply like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the additional resources that CNIL needs. This subject has been mentioned several times in our hearings. In view of the ambitions of this bill, CNIL officials obviously need additional resources. The demand seems reasonable and legitimate to us. We were not asked for abracadabrant means. If the Secretary of State needs our support to support the request to Bercy, whose requirements we know, he will be able to count on many of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u190	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u191	This is no longer a catch-up session, but a support intervention by the majority. With an opposition, which you necessarily recognize, Secretary of State, rights and obligations, on the same line as the majority in this area, we should be able to find the right solution. Before the discussion of the text comes to an end, I would like to draw the attention of the majority, the national representation and the Government, in particular the Minister of Economy and Finance, who is increasingly difficult to convince, to the need to allow CNIL to assume its new functions. The agents and collaborators of the European supervisory authorities are twice, sometimes three times as many, for identical tasks. Of course, my point is not to call for alignment with the means of the European agencies, and that is not what the CNIL is asking for. It wouldn't make sense here, now and without a clear trajectory. On the other hand, in the short term, i.e. now and for next year, the needs are estimated at about 30 posts. It's not nothing: it's 10 per cent of the workforce, but the percentages don't matter. Unless we consider that the application of the GDPR in France can be neglected, which is not possible, it is imperative to accompany, possibly over two fiscal years, these CNIL requests, which are absolutely not super-fetivating: this is their only way of fulfilling new obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u192	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u193	I will not go back to the reasons that will lead us to abstain on the text, but take note of the very real progress that it entails. Some impasses, which I mentioned in the general discussion, will nevertheless lead us to choose abstention. As the debates conclude, I join the voice of our colleague Philippe Gosselin. In our country, we have passed many laws imposing controls and rules, without always giving ourselves the means to ensure that they are enforced, or at the very least that their compliance is verified and their absence punished if necessary. In a rule of law, not being able to ensure full application of the law weakens the power of the law. I therefore join the voice of our colleagues in recalling that, while strengthening the role of CNIL is a good thing, it is also necessary to strengthen the means at its disposal to exercise the powers conferred on it – failing which, as I said earlier, we pass a law that is a sword of wood, which weakens the credibility of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u194	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u195	Mr Philippe Gosselin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u196	Everyone will have understood, listening to the remarks made earlier by our colleague Constance Le Grip on behalf of our group and taking into account the stages of our reasoning set out at the first reading of the text, that it remains, in our view, faithful to the spirit of European law and is in the right direction. It allows the French law to adapt to the needs of our time, but also to have a somewhat more substantial armor than a simple French-French armor. It is, we hope, a model, and in any case participates in the development of a European environment for the protection of personal data, which is particularly important in a very competitive context, as is recalled by the hearings conducted by the US Congress in recent days. It is therefore important to adopt a collective approach at European level. Certain provisions may need to be revised in some time, and their assessment, including those relating to the place of local and regional authorities, will need to be reviewed. On this point, the Senate has had its hand a little heavy, and ours may have been a little light at times. We'll get back to it. In any event, we see this as a text that is globally up to the stakes, which will lead the members of the Republican Group, as at first reading, to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u198	The next speaker is Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u199	This is an important text, the European dimension of which has already been recalled. Parliamentary work – both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, although the CMP did not reach an agreement – has been rich and has made progress. That is why the members of the La République en marche group will vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u200	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u201	Unfortunately, despite the repeated mention of the issues, of which I have no doubt that everyone here is aware, the bill before us on re-reading falls short of what would have to be done, as I have already indicated, following several of our colleagues. Even taking into account the room for manoeuvre left by the European Directive of 27 April 2016, it seems to us that the Government and the majority do not take their responsibilities for the protection of personal data and the guarantee of the fundamental rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens. We regret it and regret it all the more because it is a field of action at the forefront of which our country could stand, which would make it a model at European level. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary of State, your majority preferred to stay behind and retain the market's priority in terms of personal data business. We will have the opportunity, I am sure, to debate it again and to defend our proposals, which are in the direction of a real revolution and new digital rights, as we propose them in our programme. That is not the case with the bill, which we will not be able to vote on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u202	The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u203	Since the text aims to transpose into our law, within a very short period of time, the new European requirements for the protection of personal data; Since it aims not only to strengthen the rights and protection of data for our citizens, but also to increase the accountability of the actors who exploit them; since the current situation reminds us that it is urgent for the legislator to act in this direction; Finally, since the failure of the CMP invites us to reach an agreement with the Senate, if not a consensus, on the provisions that remain under discussion, and since we will have to inform and accompany our fellow citizens, entrepreneurs and local and regional authorities in order to invite them to take full measure of the new rules that we have to lay down with responsibility and pragmatism, the members of the IUD, Act and Independent Group will naturally vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u204	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Latomb, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u205	We are pleased and proud to have participated in this trans-party work, which has provided an opportunity for detailed explanations and exchanges, both between us and with the Government and all stakeholders. Europe must play a leading role in the protection of personal data, as demonstrated in the current context. It is necessary that we vote on this balanced text, so that it can be exchanged with the Senate for rapid adoption and that we are at Europe's rendezvous on this subject. This is a first stone; As part of the review of the text, we have begun to open doors that open on many topics. The European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition began discussions with Google at the end of March. Several texts will be discussed on this subject. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We must show the unity of our assembly – unfortunately there will be a few abstentions and votes against the text, but the vast majority is in favour of it – and apply the same provisions throughout Europe, in order to create a common space that will allow us to weigh on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u206	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u207	[[Bill passed]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u208	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill for a new railway pact (No. 764, 851, 842).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u209	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with Amendment No. 63 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u210	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u211	Mr President, the Minister responsible for transport, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, in your proposal for a general privatisation of our common goods, no part of the public services cake to be shared should be forgotten. Article 4 therefore provides that stations can now be managed by private operators – delicious euphemism to designate the privatization of places that are often the economic lung of small cities where they act as motors, boosters of economic development. Of course, we oppose this logic of private operation of the stations and their sale by cutting. Once again, your policy serves the already forgotten territories of the Republic, because the management of small railway stations, which are not frequented, will never be carried out by private companies. They will therefore be left to abandonment, abandoned, even eradicated, for lack of public service. Therefore, a public railway hub managing the network, rolling stock and railway stations is essential to ensure that citizens are equal before the public service. By this amendment, we call for the maintenance of public management and operation of passenger stations. In short, no one should stay on the edge of the road. We therefore ask you, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u212	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u213	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. Amendment No 273, introducing an additional article before Article 1, which we adopted on Monday evening, entrusts the unified management of stations to SNCF Réseau. It is a public structure, a wholly owned subsidiary of SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u214	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u215	Mr President, we do not understand each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u216	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u217	The provisions of Article 4 relate to public service contracts. It seems to me very important that the organisation of the public service be placed under the control of the public authorities. The public service delegation is one of the modalities of public service to French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u218	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u219	...to which you do not seem to adhere, but which is dear to me. The Government's opinion on the amendment was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u220	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u221	The debates resume in a loud tone! Minister, we have a certain vision of public service. We are defending it, as we have shown on several occasions, through the amendments that we have tabled on this and many others. Maybe she's not yours. You, you make the interest of competition take precedence – your text only talks about it, page after page. We take precedence over the defence of a public service allowing everyone's access to rail transport and taking into account the general interest of citizens, but also the general ecological interest. It allows for the development of all territories as part of the ecological transition, a strategic dimension that you continue to refuse to integrate into the bill. We are therefore well in the presence of two visions: yours, rebuffed, inscribed in the twentieth century and late on the stakes of the twenty-first century, and ours, expansive and proposing a real development of public services that, you dislike, we will continue to defend. Unfortunately, you will continue to unblock them and challenge them. We will oppose this, all the more so as thousands of citizens, railway workers and railway workers agree with us on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u222	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u223	Several of our colleagues have criticized the previous texts, suggesting that if the SNCF is where it is, it is because it has not always been well managed because of the break-up of the structures that make up it. In this respect, there is verified information: stations which have belonged to several separate structures in recent decades are in fact very poorly managed. The reform that you are proposing, Madam Minister, will bring together all the infrastructures – road as well as railway stations – under one responsibility, that of the national company SNCF. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the railway station is also the brand image of rail transport; However, for years, small stations have been abandoned. It must be said firmly: SNCF Réseau must be responsible and maintain these stations and their surroundings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u224	On Article 4, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u225	The aim of this amendment is to provide for the maintenance of physical outlets in all stations in the national territory. It is becoming increasingly difficult for users to buy a ticket or obtain information at a ticket counter at a SNCF station or shop. Between 2011 and 2014, more than 2,000 jobs were eliminated in railway stations, shops, caisses and call centres. In 2014 alone, eighty outlets were closed; In addition to this, the reduction of hourly amplitudes and the closing of points of sale on weekends. Every effort is made to give up a distribution worthy of public service. We are opposed by this amendment to the policy of abolishing points of sale for the benefit of all-digital companies, which dehumanizes public service and eliminates jobs. On the contrary, smart use of digital technology should create jobs. We ask that the public service remain accessible to as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u227	We will discuss the vocation of the stations to become real multimodal exchange points during the discussion of the mobility policy bill. At present, it is the transport organizing authority which defines the level of services at the station, which is not reducible to the physical presence of people in the station. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u229	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u230	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Obono?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u231	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u232	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u233	I am somewhat concerned about this amendment. It is true that physical outlets are gradually disappearing; But if we were to add more, we would have to create jobs: who would pay? Would this not simply mean the price of the tickets for the users? Of course, I hope that users, especially elderly people who do not have a smartphone and who do not have access to the Internet, can find out and order a ticket, but the economic consequences of your proposal would be disproportionate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u234	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u235	We will not vote for section 4, which allows you to legislate by ordinance in a number of areas. This will not surprise you: we would have liked to be fully seized, to be able to debate or even decide. Our recent experience with prescriptions is inconclusive; Labour law orders have proved rather unfortunate, and in some way in line with the fears we expressed in the debate. We don't want to give you a blank check.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u236	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u237	In the same spirit, we will also oppose Article 4, which concentrates many of the problems we have raised about openness to competition, of which – despite the praises sung by the majority – we know the consequences. It is after all a trajectory of several decades that leads us to make this choice. On the form, I stress that the majority who claim to be open to social dialogue and ready for cooperation continue to use the ordinances. This is somewhat contradictory, since this method prevents any real dialogue with Parliament and any real parliamentary contribution: it is a blank-sing given to the Government. It is again the same hypocritical attitude: "We are for dialogue, but we have already decided everything, everything written; You can always talk, nothing will do. » We hope that the current mobilization, which is developing, will make you sound right and will force you to come back to these iniquitous provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u238	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u239	We come to a series of amendments with an additional article after Article 4. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u240	This amendment is Hulot-compatible. The minister of the ecological and solidarity transition is waging a war on diesel on the road, with a goal of eliminating these vehicles in 2040. I think we have to do the same for the rail. The small line debate raised the issue of diesel; It is true that the environmental argument does not work in their favour. Today, there are hydrogen locomotives, for example. I believe that a real investment plan is essential in order to put an end to diesel in rail transport too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u242	We debated in the Committee on Technological and Policy Options for Electrification of Lines; Indeed, the hypothesis of the hydrogen trains produced by Alstom and used in Germany is interesting. The Duron report addresses this issue. I refer you once again to the Mobility Orientation Bill, which will include a chapter on fleet greening. I understand your frustration, but I invite you to withdraw this amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u244	I confirm that we are working, as part of the preparation of the mobility orientation bill, on a systematic greening of fleets, and more broadly of all vehicles, whether land, river, sea or rail. There are now hybrid locomotives; However, they are relatively undeveloped. Hydrogen locomotive technology is emerging. I therefore propose that you, too, withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u245	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u246	Everyone here remembers the slogan: "It is up to us to make you prefer the train". Well, obviously, you want to make us prefer the LOM law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u247	She's gonna be fantastic, you'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u248	With everything you say you're going to put in there, we're gone to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u249	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u250	It would probably have been better to start with this: it would have given a general view.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u251	That's right, we should have put the locomotive before the cars!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u252	I fully subscribed to the very successful foundations of mobility, with a lot of contributions. Today, I can only feel a certain frustration. Having said that, I remember your words, and I hope that these promises will be kept; An action plan, or at least a very strong political will, is essential. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u253	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u254	[[Smile]] We all know, I imagine, the High Committee on the Rail Transport System. Otherwise, this amendment will be an opportunity to make it known. Created by the 2014 Act, it is intended to inform the Government and Parliament. You have, Madam Minister, spoken a lot about the performance of the railway system, and I agree with you on the importance of this subject. That is why I propose that this high committee give Parliament a report every year that would enable us to check where we are and whether the path is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u256	I will disappoint you again, Mr Bouillon, but our assembly has all the financial reports of the public railway group; We also have the right to audition the railway operators as often as we wish. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u258	In the 2014 law the principle of multi-annual contracts between the State and SNCF was enshrined. These contracts include specific performance indicators. This contract will of course have to be reviewed, but the principle of these indicators will be maintained. The Transport Code already provides, moreover, that the SNCF shall report annually on the performance of this contract in an activity report transmitted to Parliament. It therefore seems to me that your amendment is satisfactory. I suggest you remove it; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u259	Mr Bouillon, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u260	[[Smile]] I'm holding him, Mr. President. The High Committee on the Rail Transport System really deserves to be better known, and so it will go to posterity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u261	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u262	I would like to react briefly to this amendment. I welcome the work done by this High Committee, but this extra-parliamentary body itself sets the programme of its work each year and decides on the reports it wishes to make – I insist all the more on this point because I am myself a member of the High Committee for Quality of Service in Transport. There is no need for this amendment; the law does not have to define the work of this high committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u263	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u264	[[Smile]] I am saddened by these systematic requests for amendments to be withdrawn. I believe we will have almost no amendment tabled by the opposition, and that is a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u265	That's true, and for all the oppositions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u266	Of course, you probably feel that these amendments do not correspond to the way you imagined things, but this House should also allow us to meet: there were spaces for dialogue. Of course, this would not have changed our final vote, because these amendments are not enough to lead the rail revolution we need, but your attitude is regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u267	I call Mr Damien Adam, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to support Amendment No. 202.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u268	During the hearings on this bill, several interlocutors alerted us to a worrying situation: some of the assets in the stations are not affected. In other words, we are not in a position to know whether these heritage elements belong to SNCF Réseau, SNCF Mobilitys or Stations &am p; Connexions. The best example of this is the glass roof of Lyon railway station. This complex situation is first of all a source of economic difficulties, since it hinders development, renovation or simple maintenance projects. Secondly, it is likely to pose a legal problem in the event of an accident: who is responsible? It therefore seems more than necessary to simplify and clarify the distribution of unallocated assets in stations. To this end, through this amendment, I would like to request a report from the Government identifying all the difficulties, so as to respond to them on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u270	We all have in mind this sometimes upuesque situation in which SNCF Network owns the wharfs, SNCF Mobilitys of the roof, and Stations &am p; Connections of commercial surfaces. The adoption of Amendment No 273, which entrusts SNCF Réseau with the unified management of stations, satisfies your request. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u272	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u273	Mr Adam, do you agree to withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u274	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u275	I have before me an amendment, No 80, to delete Article 5. Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u276	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u277	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-12-O1187.u278	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill for a new railway pact. The meeting is adjourned.
