ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u1	The next item is the nuclear exit strategy. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. We begin with the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u2	For twenty-two days, the employees of Nuvia Support, of the Vinci group, have been on strike at the nuclear site of Romans-sur-Isère. They have been alerting us for twenty-two days about their working conditions, whose health is suffering, and which also pose a considerable risk to the surrounding populations. We know that the Government is accustomed to making little mention of suffering at work. Subcontractors do not have the same level of protection as their statutory colleagues, whether they are dependent on EDF, Orano, Framatome or the Commission on Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy, CEA. Understaffed, they cannot carry out their mission under the conditions normally required by the particularly dangerous use of this toxic energy. Exposure to ionizing radiation is not taken into account in civilian nuclear power, as it has already been, very imperfectly, in the case of the victims of military tests. They are not even invited to the safety day organized every year. Today, on the Romans site, they do not have the right – unlike statutory workers – to a medical examination with analysis of stools and urine that would detect possible internal contamination. How many thyroid and brain cancers for nuclear workers, and especially for the subcontracting workers we talk about so little? There are not just engineers, Minister of State, who work to keep our plants and other installations, which are becoming increasingly weak. We must think of those who, at times welders, radiation protectionists and scaffolders, are unjustly made invisible. In Romans, in contradiction to the protocol of the Nuclear Safety Authority, the ASN itself, the service has resumed, while it has been under increased surveillance for four years. This is all about breaking the strike, imposing silence. However, it is the workers who bear the heavy task of denouncing the questionable conditions of exploitation that put us at risk. They need to be better considered and more numerous. The strikers only ask for an increase of 50 euros gross. Would it be too much, in your opinion? Mr. Minister of State, will you join their call for reason? In the medium term, do you commit to re-internalizing subcontracting activities by operators under the authority of the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u3	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u4	Madam Member, I find it difficult to let you say that there would be double standards. But you are right on one point: we will never be too demanding in this area. The French nuclear industry generated a turnover of EUR 50 billion in 2016; It employs 220,000 people, grouped into 2600 companies, of which 98% are subcontractors. Subcontracting is therefore of a strategic nature. The Government's work in this area is twofold: it ensures the competitiveness of the sector and the strength of its structure; I would also like to point out that the conditions for the exercise of subcontractors meet the greatest safety and security requirements. As part of the national conference on industry, in 2011 public actors set up a strategic committee on the nuclear sector to support the efforts of SMEs and micro-enterprises in training, research, development and strategic direction. This committee enables all stakeholders to identify the needs and challenges of the sector and to provide common answers to the questions that arise. The Law on the Energy Transition for Green Growth has introduced an article in the Environmental Code which states that "because of the special importance of certain activities [...] a decree in the Council of State may regulate or limit the use of suppliers or subcontracting for their implementation". This decree was published on 28 June 2016; it provides in particular that the operator may not entrust to a provider the control of the work of the security and operation of its installation. In addition, the decree provides that "when the operator entrusts to an outside operator the performance, within the perimeter of its installation during the operation or dismantling of its installation, of services or important works" for the preservation of health, safety, environment... "these may be carried out by subcontractors of second rank at the most" unless expressly obtained from the ASN, which guarantees that all security conditions are met. In addition, the Act has sought to ensure that the working conditions and medical monitoring of nuclear workers, including subcontractors and contractors, are of the highest standard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u5	It's not applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u6	Of course, the objective of reducing the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix will lead to a dialogue with the representatives of these subcontractors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u7	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u8	Minister of State, in 2015 – against the background of controversy over the closure of Fessenheim – you had called to remind us how important it was that the share of nuclear power in French electricity generation should return to 50% by 2025. Two years later, you announce that, in the end, it will take another ten years – pushing the deadline until 2035. You justify this setback by an argument put forward by the proponents of nuclear power: to push back the share of nuclear power is, you say, to reopen thermal power plants, whose role in global warming is harmful. But it's taking the problem backwards! It is precisely the dependence of our country on nuclear energy that prevents the emergence of a pole of renewable energy. We are the most nuclear-weapon-free country in the world, with 58 reactors in operation. However, French and French people have never been given a debate worthy of this name, even in Parliament, while the safety of power plants, the protection of the environment and energy independence are subjects that concern us all. Between 11 and 18 March, insoubted France will carry out a campaign to propose a citizen vote on the release of nuclear power. It is open to all, political organizations, associations and citizens. Minister of State, we know you are committed to citizen initiatives, as indeed the President of the National Assembly, who had tabled in 2010 a bill on the citizens' legislative initiative. As part of the current reform of the Assembly, one of the seven working groups proposed "to unlock institutional barriers to participation in order to enable different initiatives and experiments to emerge and materialize". We invite you to take part in our citizens' initiative to vote on the exit from nuclear power. But whether or not you are taking part in this vote, do you undertake to take his result into account?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u10	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u11	Madam Member, I retain the objective set out in the 2015 Act; But unlike the previous government, I'm acting to reach it. I did not seize without thinking about the arguments of the nuclear defenders; I don't subscribe to it blindly. But when I arrived at the Government, I discovered that nothing had been planned to achieve the target. The social consequences of this transition are immense; If we act brutally, the energy transition will fail. The closure of the Fessenheim power plant will allow us to develop a transitional contract, with local authorities, employees and sectors; These contracts will have to be replicable. That is how we will be able to reduce the share of nuclear power. You are in favour of leaving nuclear power; Others believe that its share in electricity generation will have to be maintained at 50%. This 50% is the meeting point where everyone can agree: when we get there, we may have shown that it is possible to go further; We may have shown, on the other hand, that we need to take a little more time. But unless we used great social brutality and postponed the closure of coal-fired power stations, we could not meet the original deadlines. I hold you the language of truth; I'm just like you attached to this 50% nuclear limit. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The debate on multi-annual energy programming will not be confiscated by experts; Whatever form is chosen, we will involve the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u12	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u13	Nuclear power costs us a lot; It will cost us much more in the years to come, because in recent decades the necessary investments have not been made. The result of this mismanagement is that from now on, breakdowns and incidents are increasing in our power stations; A few months ago, eighteen reactors had to be shut down. Maintenance costs have exploded: from 800 million euros per year in the 2000s, they have increased to more than 4 billion euros. In the coming years, the addition of nuclear power will increase: by the end of the legislature, 17 reactors will reach the end of the expected lifespan. This will be the case for three-quarters of the park by 2027. If we choose to extend our dependence on nuclear energy, we will have to carry out huge works in these plants. It is worth EUR 100 billion – and these are all resources that cannot be used for the necessary energy transition. France is the most nuclearised country in the world. It is also the European country that is lagging the most behind in achieving its renewable energy production targets. There is still not a single wind turbine at sea in France, despite our 3000 kilometres of coastline – despite the presence in our country of competent companies, workers and technicians. The obstinacy to continue in the nuclear sense binds our hands; It prevents us from engaging in the ecological conversion of our production. Mr. Minister of State, why this obstinacy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u14	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u15	There's no obstinacy on my side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u16	What are you doing in this mess?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u17	We haven't been able to set up an offshore wind turbine yet, but I can assure you this has nothing to do with nuclear power. On the other hand, if we try to lead the development of new EPR and renewable energy reactors together, we will fail everywhere. The first step is to reduce the share of nuclear power – and that is the only goal that the Government has set itself with regard to nuclear power. As for the development of renewable energy, which faces regulatory problems or local opposition, we are in the process of putting it in order. We must, indeed, change our scale. Finally, there is a rule in the nuclear field: non-controlling costs! There is one point, Mr President, on which we fully agree: the economic argument is no longer valid, and the demonstration has been made that renewable energy can at least balance, and probably compete, nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u18	It's a sweet utopia!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u19	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u20	Minister of State, your Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu is going to Bure today, and it is the day that the Government chose for a violent expulsion from the Bois Lejuc as from the Maison de résistance. More than 500 mobile gendarmes were mobilized. Should we remind you that legal remedies are under way to challenge the legality of the occupation of the forest by the National Radioactive Waste Management Agency – ANDRA – and the start of work on the nuclear waste landfill project? The police before the judges, this is a strange idea of democracy. Emmanuel Macron's liberalism is exercised against our freedoms; Your ecology, Minister, is against environmentalists. You said only a few days ago that "we cannot impose such waste on local populations... without consultation, without transparency." You may have thought that the use of an impersonal pronoun would relieve you of your individual responsibility. That's not the case, minister. In fact of transparency, you are not studying any alternatives, as was the case in Notre-Dame-des-Landes for a long time. As a matter of fact, you are violently repressing. It is undoubtedly a pleasure for the Minister of the Interior, who so much likes to play fort with the weak. But beyond his person, it is the entire Government that is engaged, and you in particular. Look at this photograph. Bure's activists saw you when she was taken as I see you today. I don't recognize you anymore. You can't keep doing the ostrich, minister. You know the fire risks associated with the Cigeo project – an industrial geological storage centre – highlighted by the IRSN – Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety. The dangers of landfilling waste are known, if you pay attention to the work of particle physicists. My simple question is, where is Mr. Hulot? Minister, if you still have a bit of consistency, why don't you leave this government in which you act as a guarantor of violence against citizens who defend the general interest?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u22	It's caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u23	Mrs Panot, I would like to remind you that the regulation prohibits the branding of objects in the Chamber. I thank you for respecting this rule, which we all agree with. The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u24	I don't feel like I'm on the sidelines with my conscience. I would have preferred never to have to deal with this subject, I would have preferred not to come to this situation – the ultimate waste that no one wants, either in France or elsewhere. Now I'm in charge. The only thing that has changed is my function. I can't make this waste go away like by enchantment. We didn't burn the steps in Bure. Nothing is definitive, nothing is done. For now, a lab is looking. I am well aware of the dangers of the oil waste that has recently been revealed. As it stands, no authorization is given. That said, there must be a clear distinction among the citizens' oppositions, which are necessary, legitimate, relevant and whose concerns were often well founded, those which are within a legal framework and those which are outside the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u25	ANDRA is illegal too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u26	In this case, a question of public policy is raised. The debate will be all the more fruitful and rational as the participants will remain in lawfulness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u27	What about Notre-Dame-des-Landes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u28	We are now at a time of truth for the nuclear industry. This waste should have been dealt with earlier, since it poses a considerable philosophical problem, which goes far beyond the small concerns of each other. Should we bury them irreversibly for hundreds of thousands of years? It's not my idea of a civilization, but I can't make this waste go away by enchantment. Here too, we will look at the worst solution. No solution has been endorsed so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u29	What about the House of Resistance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u30	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u31	Nuclear is a sensitive subject – today's debate demonstrates this. Today, production from the atom occupies a prominent place in the energy mix of our country. We know that energy, and electricity in particular, plays a strategic role, both for users, in particular the 11 million people affected by energy insecurity, and for the economy. The place of electricity will be increasingly central to meeting the needs: reindustrialization, the fight against global warming, the massive arrival of new technologies – I am thinking in particular of the electric turn in the automobile. Nuclear energy does not produce greenhouse gases; It therefore has a role to play in the development of a long-term strategy as well as in the consolidation of the industrial sector within the framework of a public, balanced and agreed energy mix. At least that's my personal opinion. It is high time to have the courage to open this debate. Energy policy choices are structuring. We are faced with a choice of society. Citizens must be able to give their opinion. While it is illusory to think that everyone can have all the technical knowledge on such a subject, this is not a problem if the expression of citizens regains its meaning as a political act. No form of energy production alone can meet the current challenges of our societies. The responsibility of a government today is therefore to put in place democratic tools to provide a simple and synthetic analysis of the current state of affairs, the questions that arise, the choices that can be made and the consequences of the various scenarios envisaged, in particular in economic, social and environmental terms. Everyone must be able to take ownership of the various issues involved in this matter. It is the role of political power to organise a sincere and reasoned debate on the choices available to citizens. Are you ready, Minister, to engage in such a democratic process?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u32	Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u33	I feel that the year that begins will be an opportunity to discuss with all the players – and not just experts – in the context of the multi-annual energy programming and thus build a vision of the energy model we want. I hope that this debate will not be confiscated by pros and anti-nuclears.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u34	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u35	There's both of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u36	There is a point of convergence, I am convinced. I hear those who would like to leave nuclear power – I am not far from joining it, but I am not going to substitute my individual conscience for a national consciousness. Why am I attached to the 50% threshold? Because the demonstration can be done, in one way or another. It is an absolutely essential meeting point. I am not going to deprive myself here of displaying my reservation with regard to this sector. What's she got to do with? For me, if a society takes a risk and makes a mistake, it must be able to contain the consequences of this risk in time and space – this, in my view, is a clue of civilization. Unfortunately, the experiences of Fukushima and Chernobyl show us that our societies are not able to contain the consequences of the risk in time and space. It is a real philosophical problem that justifies my reservation, beyond the economic arguments. We have a transition to make, a roadmap to be developed together. The 50% target will allow us to find a meeting point and regain our freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u37	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u38	You have just reaffirmed the objective of rebalancing electricity production in France by reducing the share of nuclear power to 50% by 2035. Nuclear energy makes it possible to generate electricity without CO and at a competitive cost for our citizens. It gives France a lead over other European countries, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. It also offers, until proven otherwise, good security of supply. Reducing the share of nuclear energy will necessarily involve the development of renewable energies – we know that conflicts of use do not go without problems. It cannot be achieved by the construction of new thermal power plants, since climate agreements prohibit it. However, renewable energy has a cost, as shown in the case of Germany, where electricity is almost 80% more expensive than in France. The additional cost of renewable energy is already significant in France – 5 billion euros per year, which are paid by consumers. The reduction of the share of nuclear power by 2035 to 50% requires the shutdown of the first reactors around 2030. Given the dates of commissioning of French reactors, some 15 reactors could be closed between 2030 and 2035. It therefore seems necessary, in order to maintain the 50 per cent balance, to produce new reactors, which implies a proactive decision by the Government in order to actuate the site and the number of new reactors to be built around 2019-2020. Minister, what is the Government's strategy to preserve the French nuclear industry within the framework of a rebalanced energy mix, and its entire value chain – from the supply of fuel assemblies, to the operation of power plants, to the reprocessing of fuel – knowing that this sector exports, at the initiative of the Government, its know-how abroad?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u39	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u40	If we remain at 50 per cent, the share of nuclear energy will remain higher than in many countries. The expertise and know-how of the nuclear industry will therefore not be extinguished tomorrow. Moreover, as you know, the dismantling of reactors, unlike a coal-fired power plant, takes some time. There is therefore no danger in this respect of the preservation of competences.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u41	Flamanville has shown the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u42	Let us not preempt the work that begins on multi-annual energy programming. That would mean that the scenarios are already established. Today, no scenario is preferred. You say that the target of 50% will have to be achieved by 2035: I know it will not be achieved by 2025, but I don't know what we're going to do yet. Several scenarios are on the table; We do not intend to ignore the citizens' debates. We need to reduce our electricity consumption. In the field of energy efficiency, there is milling grain; There are jobs and economic competitiveness at the key, but above all support for those in situations of energy insecurity. We need to develop renewable energies. With regard to solar energy – this will come for wind energy – the price curves are crossing each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u43	200 euros to Dieppe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u44	It was unthinkable five or ten years ago, but see how costs fall. In the interim period, natural gas may need to be used. All these subjects are on the table. For the moment, excluding Flamanville, it is not necessary to consider the construction of other nuclear reactors – otherwise the failure of the energy transition is certain. Let us have faith in renewable energies. They are the ones who will eventually give us true sovereignty. Finally, to call nuclear energy clean does not seem appropriate to me when we see what is happening in Bure. I do not consider that energy producing waste for hundreds of thousands of years is clean energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u45	I was talking about CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u46	On this point, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u47	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u48	The Government has announced a package of measures to prepare for the release of nuclear power. In a context of exponential growth in global energy needs, we need to find and develop new sources of energy. My question concerns a little-known energy source, but one that is increasingly spoken of in the specialized media: thorium, and more specifically, its use in molten-salt nuclear reactors. Thorium has been known since the 19th century. Marie Curie had identified her radioactive properties in 1898. For various reasons, States and industrialists have favoured uranium reactors. But today, the nuclear risk and trauma of Chernobyl and Fukushima, as well as the complexity of nuclear waste management, prompt us to turn away from uranium. According to Daniel Heuer, research director at CNRS, molten salts reactors using thorium would be less dangerous and less dirty than current reactors, with greater efficiency. This technology, you will agree, is very promising. It is all the more so for France because our country has thorium in large quantities. A recent article, which I can transmit to you, says that we would have enough to cover our energy needs for two centuries. The Chinese government is currently funding a molten salt reactor project in the Gobi Desert, and the Netherlands has developed a research program on the subject in Petten. I therefore allow myself to move the debate from the exit of nuclear power to the use of cleaner nuclear technology – a green nuclear, in a way. Of course, the technology of molten salts reactors is not unanimous in the scientific community. This is why phases of research and experimentation are needed. My question is: Does the Government intend to strengthen research in this area in the medium or short term?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u49	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u50	To be very honest, I had heard about it, but I had not really looked at this technology, which you alerted me to well before this debate. If what you are saying is fully founded, then a new sector should be built, because the current sector cannot integrate this technology. As I believe that the diversity of renewable energies will make it possible to meet our energy needs to a large extent, I do not think it is worth taking this step. Beyond this, molten salts reactors using thorium for the production of nuclear electricity have, as you have said, certain advantages, notably because of the abundance of thorium resources, the ease of continuous reprocessing of liquid fuel and less waste generation. However, they also have disadvantages in terms of safety demonstration and the impossibility of starting a thorium cycle without uranium 235 or plutonium, since thorium is not a fissile material. In addition, the industrial feasibility of a power reactor is not demonstrated, and the studies have so far remained, and it must be acknowledged, very conceptual. As you mentioned, experiments took place in the 1950s in the United States, but the possibility of switching to a power reactor has never been established. Finally, there is no sufficiently substantiated comparative study to judge the economic attractiveness of such an energy source. In the absence of any identification of the decisive benefits that would be brought about by the thorium cycle, but also because France has, I repeat, a large reserve of depleted uranium which could, if necessary, supply fast neutron reactors with solid fuel, whose technological maturity is much higher than that of reactors operating on the thorium cycle, the opportunity to change the nuclear fuel cycle in the short term is, in my view, not demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u51	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u52	Minister of State, the Act of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth provides for a reduction of the share of nuclear power to 50% of electricity production. At the end of the year, the Government must establish multi-annual energy programming – EPP – for the period 2019-2028, i.e. the energy policy that will reflect the guidelines and priorities of the State for the management of all energy sectors. In this multi-annual energy programming, you plan to specify the number of nuclear reactors that will be closed, identify them and schedule them. The original lifespan of the nuclear reactors was forty years. Over the period covered by the EPP, 50% of the reactors in the nuclear power plant will spend their fourth 10-year visit. The operations of the big carenage launched by EDF will ensure the safety of the plants and these reactors. The Nuclear Safety Authority – ASN – will deliver its opinion on these extensions in 2020 or 2021, therefore after the adoption of the EPP. How does the Government intend to develop this programming without having the ASN report which will identify the reactors that can remain in operation and those that will have to be closed?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u53	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u54	Mrs Kerbarh, as you have said, and I will continue to repeat, the Government has confirmed its ambition to reduce the share of nuclear power and its desire to define a new, ambitious trajectory for the evolution of our energy mix, which will, I hope, enable us to achieve the objectives set by the law as quickly as possible. This path will be defined, as you pointed out, through the development of the next PPE, which is to be completed by the end of 2018. The EPP will set guidelines for reducing the existing nuclear stock. Of course, it will necessarily have to incorporate uncertainty about the NSA's future views on the extension of reactors. The general opinion of the ASN – which should not be confused with the previous ones – on the fourth ten-year visits to the 900 megawatt level reactors, the oldest, should be known by 2020. It will then be declined by reactor, on the horizon of their 10-year visit. Almost 30 opinions will therefore be delivered on the period covered by the PPE. I hope that the EPP for the years 2019 to 2028 will effectively define the number of reactors to be closed, the timetable and the criteria for selecting these reactors. I also believe that the EDF operator, who I have asked to participate in this work, will help us to do so. The nuclear safety imperative will remain the Government's priority, but other criteria must be taken into account when deciding which reactors will be closed. I am of course thinking of the economic criteria – not all reactors with the same profitability –, the social criteria and the balance of the network. All these elements are the subject of a discussion that we have started with EDF, which will have to adapt its industrial tool to the objectives we have set ourselves. With regard to the issue of security of supply, these decisions will have to incorporate the necessary margins of caution to take into account the possible consequences of the directions to be taken by the NSA. As such, the development of renewable energy, for which we have set ambitious targets, and the energy efficiency efforts to be defined by the EPP, will normally contribute to strengthening these security margins in terms of electricity supply.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u55	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u56	Minister of State, the French nuclear industry is recognized worldwide for its expertise. The question of the exit of nuclear reactors necessarily raises the question of the dismantling of nuclear reactors. Of the 150 shutdown reactors worldwide, only 17 have been completed. It is estimated that more than 200 reactors will be shut down in the next 15 years. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, more than 65% of the 448 power generating reactors operating worldwide at the end of 2017 have been operating for more than 30 years. These figures suggest interesting prospects for the dismantling market, particularly for the French sector. Nine first-generation reactors are being dismantled in France, allowing our companies to develop their expertise and know-how. The announced closure of the Fessenheim power plant will be a new opportunity to demonstrate French excellence in this area. Mr Minister of State, given that there are more nuclear reactors to be dismantled than to be built and that this trend is likely to increase in the years to come, could dismantling not become the new strategic direction of our nuclear industry? What could be the prospects of this market in terms of employment and the development of our export sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u57	Saving scrap metal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u58	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u59	As you mentioned, Mr Demoulin, the development of a decommissioning industry is, whether we like it or not, a strategic prospect for French industry, given its expertise in this field. Our three major leaders have considerable assets in this area. EDF has a strong industrial experience, with the dismantling of six large first-generation reactors with a wide range of technologies. Of course, EDF will necessarily have to enrich this experience in the coming years, as the second generation reactors are dismantled in series. For its part, Orano has a strong and continuously developing expertise in the areas of logistics, dismantling of cycle installations and the recovery, packaging and treatment of nuclear waste of all kinds. Finally, the CEA – the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – carries out a very sophisticated research and development in this field. The work of structuring an attractive offer, in particular with a view to valuing it internationally, can and should be addressed within the framework of the strategic committee of the nuclear sector. International partnerships are already developing in this area, particularly with the United Kingdom, as our two countries regularly face similar challenges and have very complementary skills. At a recent ministerial-level seminar attended by Secretary of State Brune Poirson, the two governments asked EDF, Orano and the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority – NDA –, the UK agency responsible for the dismantling and management of radioactive waste, to make concrete proposals to them very quickly, in particular on the dismantling of the first-generation reactors, the graphite-gas reactors, which the two countries have in common. I therefore confirm very clearly that the ministry of ecological and solidarity transition wishes to accompany the positioning of the actors on this topic, in France first, because it is an issue of responsibility for them and for the State, but also abroad, because our cooperation in the nuclear field must resolutely focus on the priority issues of sustainability and sustainability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u60	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u61	Minister of State, the forecast report published a few months ago by EDF's electricity transmission network confirmed that it was not possible to reduce the number of our reactors abruptly without at the same time increasing our greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u63	In order to compensate for this decline in electricity production, it would be necessary to open new gas-fired power plants and to extend the lives of our coal-fired power plants, against all logic. In this context, the development of renewable energy production must accelerate, which implies significant investments in view of France's delay in this area. At COP21, France committed to producing 27% of its electricity through renewable energies by 2030. To achieve this objective, the support of our European neighbours is essential: mutualisation of investment, harmonisation of market rules, removal of barriers and discriminatory measures within the framework of the European clean energy package. Mr Minister of State, can you tell us the timetable and the means used to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, knowing that the share of nuclear energy in the French energy mix will be reduced?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u64	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u65	Mrs Josso, the Energy Transition Act has set four objectives. If we fail in relation to one of them, we will fail in relation to the four. If we do not reduce our consumption or accelerate the development of renewable energies, we will not be able to achieve them. Given the climate challenges, we cannot sacrifice the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and, at the same time, we must reduce the share of nuclear energy. For, be it for or against nuclear power, it is never good to put all its eggs in the same basket – Brazilians have experienced this at their expense in terms of hydraulic energy. The President of the Republic has asked the Government to establish, by closely involving companies, employees, elected officials, territories and citizens, a new and ambitious path of evolution that will enable the objectives set by the law to be achieved as quickly as possible. Frankly, at this moment, we spend all our weeks there: we try to find the right levers, to identify the locks, to develop the right regulatory mechanisms to speed things up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u66	It's the least you can do when you're a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u67	For, as I have often said before this House, for the construction of offshore wind farms, there have sometimes been twelve years between the launch of the call for tenders and the installation of the first mast, and this has been done in economic circumstances that were not optimal. We're putting this all back on track.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u68	Except at the Tréport!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u69	We're going to look at things for wind and methanization. We are building a vision and, for once, a real strategy. This is the main – but not exclusive – purpose of my ministry's activity. This is part of a plan, called the "accelerator of the ecological transition", which aims to change scale, especially in the development of renewable energies, knowing that the mix will have to include, I repeat, offshore wind – with floating wind turbines –, terrestrial wind, solar, methanization and natural gas production. And let us not forget that we also have, in our palette, heat capture, geothermal energy or marine energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u70	And the hydrolines!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u71	We will present this acceleration plan, which will enable us to meet our objectives, by next spring. At the very least, it will be a realistic plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u72	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u73	Minister of State, in mid-January, you entrusted to your Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu the establishment of a steering committee on the closure of the Fessenheim plant in order to ensure the conversion of the site and to build an exemplary territory project there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u74	Communication tool!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u75	This committee is organised around six main working groups, dealing respectively with economic change, land development, infrastructure, local taxation, energy supply and impact assessment. As far as local taxation is concerned, you have envisaged the introduction of a specific tax for an area from Colmar to Mulhouse, in order to neutralise the closure losses, estimated at EUR 14.3 million. Nuclear power plants are subject to specific taxes such as flat-rate taxation on network companies – IFER – which provide local authorities with significant tax revenues. In order to maintain the target of a 50% reduction in the share of nuclear power generation, other power plants than the Fessenheim power plant will have to be closed in the years to come. The question of taxation is therefore of particular importance for the territories concerned. How do you work with local actors to implement this specific taxation? What are your first leads?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u76	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u77	Mr Schellenberger, I do not want to get into a polemic, but it is not a communication tool, sorry to tell you. I am fully aware that if we do not set up a model energy transition contract, we will not pursue our objectives. We will try to model things in Fessenheim, knowing that each territory has its own specificities. Let us also bear in mind that, regardless of our objectives, certain reactors or power plants would have arrived, at some point, at the end of their lives. In any case, such a model is, for me, an essential key if we are to succeed in the energy transition. As you know, Mrs Abba, we have embarked on this transition, which is based on sobriety, efficiency and – as I said at the moment – diversification of production sources. The closure of the Fessenheim plant is fully in line with this objective. As this will be the first closure of this type, we should be imaginative and efficient. Moreover, we will not be alone in Paris; We will be with all the local actors. I recall that for the first time, a representative of the Government came to meet with the Fessenheim employees as well as the actors of the territory. There is therefore no question of making communication, but of building together a solution. The preparation of this deadline, which should take place before the end of 2018 or at the beginning of 2019, should be given the highest priority. It will be held with the start of the European Pressurized Reactor (EPR) in Flamanville. The aim is to implement – with the support of local authorities and, of course, the active participation of EDF – an ambitious and exemplary strategy, which may be replicable, for the conversion of staff and territories. The post-Fessenheim steering committee was set up on 19 January in Colmar Prefecture by Sébastien Lecornu. Local taxation is one of the topics under discussion at both the local and central levels, in relation to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The State is therefore mobilised to identify the compensation routes at the close of Fessenheim on the horizon of April. At this time, we are likely to have greater visibility. The perspective of the evolution of the energy mix will of course be taken into account. A second meeting of the Steering Committee will be held on 12 and 13 April, which will provide us with an opportunity to take stock of the progress that has been made. In the meantime, six working groups meet very regularly to move forward on solid proposals, which will allow us to prepare for the closure announced in late 2018 or early 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u78	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u79	Minister, I'm going to force you to a repetitive exercise, but repetition can have educational virtues. We know in France a level of electrical energy production that can be described as a "high level". We owe this in particular to the fifty-eight reactors built in a relatively short period of time – ten years – between 1975 and 1985. This is the case for those in Nogent-sur-Seine, in my constituency, who are now in full production. In theory, EDF's fifty-eight pressurized water reactors – REP – built at the same time should be shut down for a short period of between ten and twenty years. One can wonder, even in the event of an extension, about the future of such an operation, about the methods of dismantling and about the actual costs – only partially apprehended. But the real needs of electricity on the horizon, from 2040-2050, in our country, are not addressed. 2040-2050 is tomorrow. Do you think that new renewable energy technologies will eventually be sufficient to meet needs? Do you feel that it will be essential to start setting up a new generation of reactors at existing sites?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u80	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u81	Member, once again: we are at the beginning of 2018, therefore the different scenarios are still on the table. However, for the time being, the Government has confirmed that we are in a phase of nuclear reduction. We will act in this direction as intelligently as possible, since we will add together the intelligences of each other to avoid any risk of disruption of supply. The reduction in the share of nuclear energy will occur as we reduce our consumption and develop our renewable energies, but not mechanically. This development needs to be planned. It is out of the question that we let it happen in disorder and that we take the risk of a supply disruption. As I told Mr Brun, we have embarked on an energy transition that is based on sobriety, efficiency, diversification of production and supply sources, in particular through the development of renewable energies. In order to implement this transition in an operational way, it will be necessary to define a path of reducing the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix from the development of the famous multi-annual energy programming – EPP – whose work will be completed by the end of 2018. I have said this on several occasions: I would like the PPE to specify the number of reactors to be closed, the timetable for their closure and the criteria for selecting these reactors. This schedule will include a date for achieving the 50% target for nuclear power generation, which must be as close as possible, but must also be realistically chosen. The TEN studies show that, by this time, the electrical system will be able to operate with a share of renewable energy ranging from 40% to 49%. In the longer term, the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix will depend on the evolution of electricity consumption, the pace of renewable energy development, the availability and cost of electricity storage solutions, and the control of consumption by 2035. My personal conviction is that we can reach the rate of 100% renewable energy. I didn't see him in a crystal ball. Before assuming my current duties, I toured all the world's research centres dedicated to renewable energies. Believe me, the future is already on. I hope I can convince you of this in the coming times. In any case, we must have one objective in mind: energy sovereignty, which means that the vast majority of the energy we consume will have to be produced within our borders. This will be good for employment, for our economy, and in a collateral way for the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u82	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u83	Minister of State, as a member of the Committee of Inquiry into the Safety and Security of Nuclear Facilities, I visited the Cruas-Meysse plant in Ardèche on Tuesday morning. The land, you know, it's all that's real! This visit allows me to point out that, contrary to what has been reported, the Greenpeace activists, during their intrusion into the power plant on 28 November, did not reach the fuel storage pool. We owe it to the reactivity of the PSPG, the specialist platoon for the protection of the gendarmerie, an elite unit installed, permanently, within the compound itself. Indeed, we cannot tolerate any concessions on the safety of the installations. This will be the subject of my first question: in view of the terrorist threat to our country, would it not be appropriate to classify nuclear power plants as "highly sensitive defence zones"? It is crucial, especially in the event of a terrorist attack, that the military be able to deploy the appropriate armed force after summons. My second question concerns the phasing out of nuclear power. Last November, you said to the national representative that it was not realistic to reduce the share of nuclear power generation to 50% by 2025. It is to your honour, Minister of State, to prefer sincerity rather than mystification. To achieve this 50% target, we must succeed in maintaining the current share of hydraulics – perhaps not enough is said – and increase the share of renewable energy production from 6% to 35%: wind, photovoltaic, biomass, geothermal, etc. Redondance is a mother of understanding. Do you now have the necessary setback to propose a new, more realistic, if not tenable deadline, integrating our nuclear fleet as an asset of the energy transition? To put it differently: Is the date of 2035 reasonable?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u84	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u85	Mr President, I shall begin by answering your second question with one word. The answer is not at this stage, since the answer must be through multi-annual energy programming. The next few months will allow us to validate the project, but I am unable to say at this stage whether the deadline, which, in any case, will not be possible in 2025, will be 2030 or 2035. These issues require an integral vision and a systemic approach. Without being able to answer you precisely, I am sure that we will be able to do so within a reasonable time. A few months ago, Mr. Claude de Ganay defended a bill aimed at strengthening the conditions for access to basic nuclear facilities, including strengthening their protection against malicious acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u86	It was an excellent bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u87	Your question reminds us that we will never be too careful. In a country that is economically and politically stable, citizens can sleep on both their ears, but how can we augurs for economic and political stability? Today, unfortunately, madness has no limit. This bill was introduced in addition to the creation – already decided by my services – of restricted access nuclear zones, resulting in heavy criminalization in the event of intrusion into nuclear sites. I would remind you that nuclear power stations are currently being protected by specialized platoons of the gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u88	We must pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u89	Personally, and I don't think I'm the only one, I have great confidence in our current physical protection of our nuclear facilities. However, you are right: the level of threat to which they may be exposed should not be underestimated. The classification into a highly sensitive defence zone would allow the gendarmes present on the nuclear facilities to engage, as you have said, an armed response against possible intruders after the use summons. Such a provision, which would certainly have an important deterrent effect on potentially malicious actors, still needs to be studied in depth. It seems to me necessary to define precisely the conditions for a supervised and proportionate implementation of such a measure. Your Assembly has dealt with the safety and security of nuclear installations, creating a commission of inquiry dedicated to the subject. I would find it appropriate that this and other equally sensitive issues should be freely debated within it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u90	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u91	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u92	Mr. Minister of State, I had planned to ask you about the need to build new, lighter or less expensive EPR-type reactors in the coming years, which EDF seems ready to do. But you have already answered, unfortunately by the negative, this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u93	That is not what the President of the Republic said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u94	I would therefore like to ask you about some of the inaccuracies raised by my colleague concerning the tax aspect of the Fessenheim file. The closure of this plant will deprive the territory of 15 million euros per year of taxation, which it would particularly need to put in place the tools of the transition. You know the Haut-Rhin department that is particularly involved in the development of renewable energies. How do you intend to compensate for this tax loss, beyond Mr. Lecornu's small commitment to extend the smoothing period for the loss of certain tax revenues from three to five years? What freedoms do you intend to grant to the territories to introduce cross-border free taxation with Germany? A free zone should be located, not between Mulhouse and Colmar, but on the banks of the Rhine, where certain areas of land are particularly attractive on a European scale. They could become not just a logistic hangar of German industrial activity, but the basis of a real activity with added value, which would create wealth in Alsace. Finally, what particular attention will you pay to the 2200 employees currently on strike at the Fessenheim nuclear power plant, to which I pay tribute, and to the 5000 jobs that will be affected by a wage reduction, as they have already been in 2012, as revealed by an INSEE survey?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u95	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u96	Mr President, I do not have any specific answers to give you on these sensitive questions, which concern a large number of employees. A visit by Sébastien Lecornu, whatever his intelligence, will not be enough to solve the problem. Moreover, the reflection must be carried out not individually, but collectively, with all the economic actors and the social partners. Not only have we engaged it, but we are working on the issue with all the departments involved. The energy transition, I am convinced, will not take place in great brutality. I said it for nuclear power. It's a little less true for coal, but we don't close a power plant in an instant. So we have a little time ahead of us. I hope that, in the long run, in addition to the transformation of jobs, there will be job creation. On the tax side, nothing is closed at this stage. You pleaded for the establishment of a free zone. This solution is neither actuated nor excluded. It was understood that we would probably have to cross the Rhine. That is to say, we have to think about it with our German friends. Therefore, everything is open. When the closure of Fessenheim was announced, I never considered it to be an energy or political strategy. In my opinion, that was not the way to proceed. I would have preferred to identify criteria, define a vision, set a timetable. For Fessenheim, the closing will take place. You can see it. Currently, a reactor is turned off. Will it turn on again?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u98	Perhaps you have information about the authorizations that I don't have. Whatever. No doubt I was slightly offended by what you said earlier. It is an insult to employees to imagine that they will be content with a simple communication tool. One cannot imagine for a moment that for the rest of the energy transition, one passes everywhere in force. You also asked me about the new EPR. No doors are permanently closed. The next government...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u99	[[Smile]] Are you announcing a reshuffle? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no no no no no no no no no
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u100	No, I wanted to talk about the next quinquennium! Don't make me say what I didn't say! In this quinquennium, the construction of a new RPD is not the priority. I say it sincerely, without political consideration. The priority is efficiency, the development of renewable energies and the reduction of the nuclear stock. The freedom of choice of our country will remain intact. I have my convictions, but I will not try to bring you any demonstration. The demonstration of the validity of this policy will be achieved through the achievement of the four objectives of the Energy Transition Law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u101	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u102	Minister of State, Alsace is located in the highly industrialized area of the Upper Rhine, which, with its 6 million inhabitants, consumes 22,000 megawatts at the peak. This territory has so far produced 15,000 megawatts, mainly through nuclear and coal-fired power plants. The situation is changing, since all German nuclear power plants will be shut down in 2022, and most Swiss power plants, older than the Fessenheim power plant, will also be shut down, limiting production to 4000 megawatts in the upper Rhine after 2023. In these circumstances, our neighbours are even seriously considering blackout possibilities. In the face of the realism of our neighbours, the document which has just been transmitted to us, at your request, TEN, far from reassuring us, only reinforces our concern. From the point of view of the method, RTE sent us a schematic to the ambiguous method of calculation, the assumptions of which are obscured: surprising lack of transparency to build a relationship of trust! On the bottom, the historical Alsatian consumption peak is greater than 3000 megawatts. However, with the power supply figures provided by the RTE model, 1500 megawatts of power is achieved. Where do the 1500 or so megawatts missing come from? Is it worth recalling that 50% of Alsatian electricity consumption is destined for industry? This is an atypical situation, which should be borne in mind. How can we compensate for the decline in production capacity, equivalent to half of Alsatian consumption, if our Swiss and German neighbours are no longer able to feed us? Do you consider that Alsace is doomed to an industrial and human decline justifying a division by two of its peak consumption? In short, our German and Swiss friends are working on models that include an increase in electricity consumption of almost 2% per year, while you are betting on a split by two of the Alsatian electricity consumption to reassure us about the impact of the Fessenheim closure on the Alsatian network. How can we justify, Mr. Minister of State, this worrying delay? And in this context, why persist, once again, in making Fessenheim the target of government nuclear policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u103	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u104	Mr President, why would what would be possible in Brittany, which does not have a nuclear power plant, not be possible in Alsace?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u105	Because the Britons import energy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u106	In Brittany, there's gas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u107	When the TEN scenarios – the electricity transmission network – indicate that it is likely to be necessary to postpone the date of the reduction of the share of nuclear energy in electricity production to 50%, we consider them to be justified. Why is it not the same when TEN says that Alsace will not face a supply problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u108	1500 megawatts are missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u109	There's a risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u110	TEN is refining its studies, but to date no major risks have been identified. It's obvious no one's better off knowing a blackout situation. We're going to study this data, and I'm committed to sharing it with you. Interconnections play an important role in this area, and we will strengthen them to build the Europe of energy, which is obviously fundamental. I am in favour of conflicting expertise, both in this area and in many others, which will validate concerns or erase fantasies. At this point, I have confidence in the TEN scenarios – it would be tricky for the political decision-maker I am not to refer to it. I suggest you share these elements and compare the expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u111	In Brittany, you build a gas power plant, which you refuse to do in Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u112	This plant was designed at a time when renewable energies were not expected to be so developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u113	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u114	Minister of State, the national guidelines for reaching the new French energy mix, which reduces the role of nuclear energy in favour of renewable electricity, are based on the consideration and comparison of different scenarios. These, based on assumptions of electricity generation and consumption, explore different trajectories. As attested by the very recent TEN balance sheet on electricity supply and demand in France, these trajectories are now precisely described in quantitative terms. Therefore, while it is possible to project in the future in terms of gigawatts and gigawatt hours, it is more difficult to do so by considering the economic and social dimensions, both direct and indirect. Existing studies and investigations seem to me to abandon this economic and social component of the transition to be initiated. I would also like to ask you how the economic and social dimensions will be integrated into decision-making. The postponement of nuclear energy to renewable energy will certainly lead to loss of values, but at the same time will create new economic opportunities at the national and global levels. In this context, and in order to project itself in a reasonable and reasoned perspective of anticipation, will an overall impact assessment be carried out? Indeed, we could only welcome a study extending the consideration of the different scenarios to that of all costs and associated revenues. It should therefore take into account changes in the number of jobs and the balance of wage contributions induced, lost or earned tax revenues, new territorial distributions of revenue and expenditure, or, to mention only those consequences, the impact on the French trade balance. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I would therefore like to hear from you on this subject and whether national representation will be able to take advantage of such an economic assessment of the French energy strategy for the coming decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u115	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u116	Mr President, the trajectories on the evolution of the energy mix, I repeat, are being drawn up within the framework of the work already under way on multi-annual energy programming. These guidelines will, of course, take into account all the objectives of energy policy, which is defined by national representation. These objectives include, inter alia, security of supply and, conversely, maintaining competitive energy prices. We are living in an era of low electricity prices, due in particular to a significant overcapacity of production in Europe and low CO prices, which must be recognised as encouraging industry players to use their coal-fired power plants to their full extent. We are also facing in France and Europe a strong need for investment to renew our electricity system, because many nuclear power plants, but also coal, built forty or fifty years ago, are coming to an end of life. The objective of energy policy is also, of course, to promote the emergence of a competitive and job-rich economy, thanks in particular to the mobilisation of all industrial sectors, in particular those of green growth. This must be done in compliance with our climate commitments, which for me are a priority, if not a priority. The ongoing work on the PPE is perfectly within this framework. They have identified the impacts in terms of costs to the community, employment and trade balance, sector by sector. On this basis, the EPP will be the subject of a comprehensive impact assessment which will quantify the economic, social and environmental impact of programming, as well as its impact on the sustainability of public finances – we are currently working on –, on the modalities of network development and on energy prices for all categories of consumers, in particular on the competitiveness of companies exposed to international competition. This impact assessment will be public and made available to national representation. In any case, changes in the energy mix that we will put in place will necessarily translate, everyone will understand, into job creation in certain sectors, and probably job losses in other sectors. It is therefore our duty to anticipate these developments, to accompany transfers, to anticipate the conversion of the sectors and territories which will be associated with the trajectories of the EPP. Let us bear in mind that the PPE will not be completed tomorrow morning and that we are largely anticipating these developments. The EPP will also have to carry out an assessment of the need for professional skills in the field of energy, in order to adapt training to these needs. That is why I have associated Muriel Pénicaud with our reflections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u117	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u118	Minister of State, last October, you announced to us that it would be difficult to keep the commitment to reduce the share of nuclear power to 50% of French electricity production in 2025. The decision to extend the closure of nuclear power plants is certainly justified by the need to gradually reduce the share of nuclear power in electricity production. However, if the lifespan of certain nuclear power plants is extended, particular attention should be paid to the safety and security of our infrastructure. The hearings conducted by the Committee on Sustainable Development, as well as several studies on the subject, highlight a large number of flaws and threats to the populations bordering these facilities. The Tricastin plant in Drôme seems to be particularly concerned: the cracks caused by hydrogen, which worsen as the tanks are used, do not give cause for concern. In addition, after demonstrating that it was possible to infiltrate a nuclear power plant in 2017, the NGO Greenpeace commissioned experts in terrorism and researchers to study the safety of our nuclear facilities, in particular with a view to identifying possibilities for incursion. Their findings were very worrying about the risk of infiltration. I myself questioned Mr Levy, CEO of the EDF Group, during his hearing before the committee of inquiry to examine the state's decisions on industrial policy on 17 January. Noting that the inquiry of Greenpeace's representatives in the Cattenom plant had taken place after eight minutes, he said: "This is such a way to reassure us [...]". [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Minister of State, if the lifespan of some of our nuclear power plants is to be extended, are we in a position to ensure their safety and security? Have we learned the lessons of the various alerts? What guarantees can you offer to riparian populations, who can legitimately worry about the state of our nuclear facilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u119	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u120	Madam Member, you are talking about two issues. One concerns the safety of nuclear installations, i.e. the prevention of accidents of natural or technological origin, the control of which has been entrusted to the Nuclear Safety Authority, which is an independent administrative authority. The other complementary issue concerns nuclear security, namely the protection of nuclear installations against malicious behaviour, which was mentioned earlier. With regard to the first question, the task of the Nuclear Safety Authority is to examine and monitor the safety conditions under which the facilities are operated. As you know, this institution acts independently. It never fails, whenever it considers that there is a safety risk, to ask EDF operations to carry out the necessary work – we have had a few examples recently. I think she's putting the bar high, even if she's never gonna do it enough in my eyes. It can go so far as to impose the shutdown of a reactor, the time of work – as is currently the case with a number of them – and must then authorize the return to service. The Tricastin nuclear power plant, like all 900-megawatt power plants, will soon begin its fourth 10-year periodic review, which will begin with reactor No. 1 in 2019. EDF will therefore have to demonstrate the safety and security of this plant and, probably, propose improvements to continue operating reactor No. 1 after 2020, and reactors No. 2, 3 and 4 respectively after 2021, 2023 and 2025. Personally, for having seen its teams at work, I have every confidence in the action of the ASN, in particular to ensure that the extension of the operating time of the plants proposed by EDF will not be at the expense of safety. In fact, we are not sure that authorizations will be granted. I will, of course, remain attentive to the full implementation of the improvements that the NSA is seeking in the field of nuclear safety. With regard to nuclear security, which concerns the protection of nuclear installations against malicious acts, it is now being implemented by the State and by the nuclear operators themselves to prevent, protect and respond to potential malicious acts against a nuclear facility. The State has a particularly important role to play in this area, as affirmed by the Law on Strengthening Internal Security and Combating Terrorism, which was promulgated by the President of the Republic on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u121	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u122	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, my question extends that of my colleague Demoulin. The nuclear exit strategy is an extremely broad subject, and I will focus on the issue of dismantling nuclear facilities. It is easy to identify the risks and challenges associated with dismantling our nuclear facilities, whether it be the radiation protection of workers, the management of radioactive waste, or the proper decontamination of the soil. In theory, the dismantling of a power plant is not easy. It becomes even less so when, in practice, legal hazards, technical problems and the expression of social concern are added to these difficulties. The examples are known, such as that of the Breton Brennilis plant, which ceased to operate in 1985 and which has not yet been dismantled. The estimated total cost of operations has increased in recent years to almost 500 million euros. A significant cost, which is certainly the responsibility of the operator, but which leaves a doubt as to the sustainability of the planned deadlines for the dismantling of the French nuclear fleet. The difficult dismantling of natural uranium gas reactors also illustrates the delays taken by operators. For example, EDF has recently preferred to change its strategy in the face of the technical difficulties encountered in dismantling reactors, which delays the end of operations. The information report on the technical and financial feasibility of dismantling basic nuclear facilities, tabled under the previous legislature, documents all these difficulties. The Nuclear Safety Authority's reports also point to errors, if not shortcomings, in the operator's strategy. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Mr Minister of State, in view of this fact, can you give us a detailed outline of your action plan for the development of the decommissioning of nuclear installations? How do you intend to accelerate the process of dismantling and make this new virtuous industry a French excellence?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u123	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u124	Mr President, I do not know if we need to speed up the process, because we need to do things calmly, rationally and not just how. Your question highlights the social and technical complexity of this subject. We put these difficulties aside, but they're catching up with us. Now, regardless of the decline in the share of nuclear power in electricity to 50%, it will be necessary to shut down power plants, because they will not pass all major visits. I don't know where the ultimate waste will be, but the other waste will be a huge volume – whether you think of any concrete or scrap material from a power plant you'll have to deal with. We are at a time of truth, and social acceptability is not the slightest problem. You rightly stress the difficulties I have just mentioned in dismantling first-generation power plants. First of all, the technical challenge of dismantling these plants, the very unique design of which, unfortunately, was, at least, not sufficiently taken into account in the life of the plants. These difficulties that the operator seems to be able to overcome – even if you have referred to this small Breton power plant that has not yet been dismantled – will not be extrapolable to the park of the fifty-eight pressurized water reactors, for which there is a fairly favourable international experience, as the parliamentary report to which you referred points out. Moreover, since many reactors are designed on the same model, EDF will be able to benefit from a pooling effect which should reduce the costs of dismantling – even if the operator considers them important – once that of the first reactors has been engaged. We will have to take this important challenge into account in the major nuclear choices we make during this quinquennium. As you know, dismantling is a very costly, lengthy and skill-intensive operation. That is why the deployment of a development sector is a paradoxically strategic prospect for French industry, given its expertise in this field. Work on structuring an attractive offer, including international exploitation, could be discussed within the framework of the Strategic Committee for the Nuclear Sector. International partnerships are already taking place in this area, particularly with the United Kingdom. The British and we face similar challenges and have complementary skills. Finally, the timetable for decommissioning work will be decided following the elaboration of the multi-annual energy programming – PPE – which will set out the guidelines for reducing the existing nuclear stock. You will have the elements when the EPP is completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u125	We come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u126	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the 2015 Royal Act planned to reduce the share of electricity produced by nuclear energy to 50% by 2025. The Government has announced the postponement of this target to 2030, or probably to 2035. While the deadline is extended, the issues remain, as the closure of some plants, in the medium or long term, remains inevitable. France is the first country in the world to have nuclear reactors in operation per capita, with 58 reactors per 67 million French. These reactors produce more than 70% of the electricity produced in our country. For example, the Gravelines power plant in our constituency, Christian Hutin, represents 9% of our nuclear capacity. With its six 900-megawatt reactors, which were put into operation between 1980 and 1985, it is the largest power plant in Western Europe, generating 2200 direct on-site jobs and about 2000 indirect jobs. The power plant's reactors will reach their 40th birthday in the second part of the 2020 decade, and this subject is therefore of particular concern to the inhabitants of Gravelines. French nuclear power plants have had a very significant impact on local territory, generating jobs, growth and thus wealth. The municipalities benefit from the tax benefits of nuclear power, which feed a large part of their budgetary revenues. If these plants were to close down, the economic and social consequences would obviously be very important. I would therefore like to ask you about the support of the territories in the post-central region. The State, together with the territorial authorities concerned, will have to work towards the economic transformation of the territory. This conversion will also have to be successful if history is not to repeat itself. The department of the North can bear witness to the crises that marked cities in the glorious past, when the major textile and mining industries were closed down. So what is the Government's road map to accompany the territories in the post-central? Are territorial contracts provided for? What could be the content of it? How to secure the activities that have developed nearby, especially those of electro-intensive or ultra-electro-intensive, and which present challenges of continuous energy supply and price?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u128	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u129	Mr President, I do not think that my answer is too brief, but I have already mentioned this subject earlier. This is an unprecedented situation, even though our history is, unfortunately, full of activities that have declined after prosperity. The advantage is that things will not be done abruptly, and we will be able to stagger them, I hope, and above all anticipate them. In fact, we are beginning to act, while, for Fessenheim and the 50% target, nothing had been anticipated, the social consequences as well as the possible economic potential. All this must be understood territory by territory, sector by sector and, I would say almost, employee by employee. This is what we are working on with several ministries, this mission being the principal of Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu. I wanted my ministry to be called the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, not to trim me with an extra ribbon, but because I consider that if the ecological transition is not in solidarity, it will not take place in a calm manner. We are modeling these transition contracts. There will be no reproducible boss in each territory, because sometimes a power plant will have to be shut down completely, sometimes simply shutting down a reactor. We are also wondering whether the current trades will be able to participate in the dismantling industry. These are all questions I didn't have an answer to. We take all these elements into account in order to make the energy transition socially and economically acceptable, if not desirable, as I hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u130	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to put his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u131	Madam President, the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear industry in France represents 200,000 jobs, making it the third industrial sector after aeronautics and automobiles. Many plants are located in the Hauts-de-France, where the inhabitants are concerned about their future. This industry provides France with security of supply, economic competitiveness and decades ahead of its European neighbours in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. It is also an export industry, whose President of the Republic supports development in the world's largest and fastest growing countries, such as China and India. As a first step, can you clarify the Government's strategy between diversification of the electricity mix, thanks to the development of renewable energies, of which we all want to see the share increase to 50%, and a nuclear exit strategy? On the day the Cigeo project cooled the chronicle in Bure, did you model the required storage volumes according to the options envisaged, between used fuels, retired fuels not usable, materials related to deconstruction and its modalities – i.e. underground storage, pool or dry storage? Finally, efforts to diversify production modes need to be accompanied by a mastery, or rather a reduction in electricity consumption, in order not to suffer the impact of the massive development of the electric vehicle, expected from the perspective of the end of the thermal motor vehicles. Are you considering new incentives for energy savings, or the implementation of a advisory mission to communities, economic actors and individuals, or even the strengthening of an existing agency?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u132	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u133	Mr Cigeo was conceived – if the project is successfully completed, the decision is not yet taken – for purely French waste, as the ultimate waste is not meant to remain at home, even though some countries are somewhat reluctant to recover the waste once we have packed it. This shows that a project that has not yet emerged somewhere in the world is perfectly linked and socially acceptable; Everyone's turning the ball back, and I hope we find the worst solution. In this area, as in others, problems have been hidden and we find ourselves at the foot of the wall, where solutions will have to be found. As I had the opportunity to tell your colleagues Nicolas Demoulin and Jimmy Pahun, we are well aware that the deployment of a waste management and development sector is a strategic perspective and a sector for the French industry, given our widely recognized expertise in this field. There are many French assets, and we must admit, whatever our positions on nuclear power, that French excellence is recognized in this field and that it offers many opportunities in terms of employment and skills, not for a few years, but for dozens. I hope that my ministry will be able to support the efforts to structure the sector, both in France and internationally. I also count on the Nuclear Sector Strategic Committee to help us work on this vital issue. ANDRA, the Ministry's public institution, carries out numerous international cooperation actions, because it is important, beyond our economic and industrial interests, to promote, as you mentioned, the responsible and safe management of waste from the nuclear industry to all countries in need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u134	We come to the question of the New Left Group. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u135	Minister of State, in the previous legislature, the Green Growth Energy Transition Act set the target of reducing the share of nuclear power from 75% to 50% by 2025. Last November, you announced that it would be difficult to meet this objective, because a too rapid reduction in the nuclear stock would force the four French coal-fired power plants to operate and to build about 20 gas-fired power plants. This increased use of fossil fuels would have the effect of doubling CO emissions from the electrical system, so that too fast a nuclear release could be at the expense of our climate targets. Thus, beyond the energy mix, the question of energy sobriety arises, the best energy being that which is not consumed. On this subject, much remains to be done! Today, there are almost 7 million "thermal colanders" in France. In addition to the environmental impact, they weigh on the purchasing power of the French; the energy bill is the second item of current expenditure of one household and one in five households is in a situation of energy insecurity. In the continuity of the previous government, you have set yourself the goal of eradicating energy insecurity in ten years, which must involve incentives for the poorest households. As you know, Minister, the question of the social acceptability of the energy transition is crucial. However, as part of the 2018 Finance Act, you have decided on a significant increase in ecological taxation. If we share your objectives, we regret these measures, which have a strong impact on the purchasing power of households, particularly in rural areas. In order to compensate for this increase, the Socialist Members had proposed a doubling of the energy check. Experienced since 2016 in four departments, including the Ardèche, this scheme for the most modest households has shown its effectiveness and will be generalized from 26 March in these departments. Unfortunately, this proposal for doubling the energy cheque was not accepted by the Government. What measures do you envisage in the 2019 budget to enable French people, especially the most modest ones, to reduce their energy consumption?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u136	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u137	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u138	Mrs Victory, the top priority in energy policy – whatever choices we make with regard to the energy mix – is indeed to reduce energy consumption. We all agree on this, because it will only be winners: businesses will gain more competitiveness and consumers will gain purchasing power with equal comfort. As for the state of the planet, this choice reduces greenhouse gas emissions. This is one of the main lessons learned from the forecast report published by the Electricity Transmission Network (TEN) last autumn. This shows that electricity consumption – it is important to bear in mind this observation, which gives some hope – is decreasing in our country, notwithstanding economic growth and the development of new uses, including the use of electric vehicles. This is a sign that the policies that have been in place for the last ten years – whatever the majority of governments – will bear fruit. The Government's objective is therefore to encourage our citizens to reduce their energy consumption by providing them with all the tools to facilitate their work. Thus, the change in the trajectory of the carbon component aims to introduce a competitive advantage to the carbon economy. However, people should not be stalemated. You are right to recall that the social acceptability of the energy transition is a decisive issue. In fact, it was included in my department's title, because I know that it is a condition of overall success. The Climate Plan, which I presented at least in July 2017, was complemented by a plan for the energy renovation of buildings, which will allow us to change our scale and to fight – I hope – effectively against energy insecurity. We chose to bring the Paris Agreement into the daily life of the French. Its implementation requires simple and visible measures to change the daily lives of our citizens, and to help them achieve energy savings to compensate for a possible increase in ecological taxation. Several measures provided for in the 2018 Finance Act have been in force since 1 January. Thus, the energy check was generalized after having been experimented in some territories. Its average amount of 150 euros will be increased from next year to 200 euros. If it has not been doubled, as you hoped, Mrs Victory, the device has nevertheless been generalized. All eligible French people will receive this cheque to pay their energy bill. On 1 January, the new conversion premium for replacement of an old vehicle came into effect. The amount is between 1000 and 2000 euros. It is intended for households that are not taxable, whether it encourages an old and polluting vehicle to be replaced by a new or less polluting second-hand vehicle. In some cases, it may cover 50% of the price of the purchased vehicle. It is therefore not an anomalous device. Finally, we decided – and this is not the least of our decisions – to continue the energy transition tax credit in 2019, which encourages housing renovations. We will transform it into a fast-paying premium, which will allow us to develop its use. In fact, a tax credit is available to a limited number of people, as it implies the possibility of advancing costs, while a fast-paying premium is much more incentive. These are the main measures we have put in place. They represent almost EUR 2 billion of aid and are accompanied by the issuance of energy saving certificates, which are very important in budgetary matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u139	Mrs Marine Le Pen, in the name of the non-attached Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u140	Mr Minister of State, France has developed, in response to the oil shock of the 1970s, driven by the legitimate concern to ensure its energy independence, a nuclear power plant that guarantees it the second place in the world in the production of such energy, after the United States. To do this, our country has developed a recognized technological competence of excellence, which has enabled it to export its know-how thanks to the talent of our researchers and engineers. This technological mastery has also enabled us to become a nuclear power, which is the guarantee of a prominent place in the concert of nations. This mastery was embodied in the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner and its subsidiary Areva. The strategic inconsistencies of successive governments under the responsibility of Presidents Sarkozy and Holland, as well as the risky industrial choices of the management of Areva, led to a near-bankruptcy and its dismantling in favour of EDF. Thus, one of the flagships of the French industry was destroyed by incuracy. Moreover, in order to satisfy the ideologies of political ecology, the law on the energy transition for green growth of 17 August 2015 set an arbitrary target of reducing the share of nuclear energy in the production of French electricity to 50% by 2025. On December 7, you yourself accepted the unrealistic nature of this target and postponed it to 2030 or 2035. Therefore, is it not time to return to reason and abandon an unrealistic and absurd objective – adopted only to satisfy a political party which then supported the socialist government – to relaunch the French nuclear industry – a path of excellence that has never failed in our country, where no major incident is to be deplored – and to pursue resolutely the research work with a view to building a fourth generation reactor?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u141	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u142	Mrs Le Pen, both nuclear energy and our agricultural model are at stake: welcome the service provided in a specific context and give an objective speech. Nevertheless, the parameters have changed. Nuclear had its virtues. As far as energy independence is concerned, we can discuss it, but that is not the subject of this question-and-answer session. Are we, moreover, certain, in the current geopolitical context, to be able to secure our supply of fissile materials on a sustainable basis? For a long time, it was ruled out that a major accident could occur in a politically and economically stable country. After Chernobyl, this possibility was limited to the USSR and then to the countries that came from it. After Fukushima, emphasis was placed on the tsunami that caused the accident. I remain reserved, but this is no longer a dogmatic debate. In any case, it is clear that we do not control much more in the nuclear sector in economic matters. As we speak, I do not know how many sarcophagi are covering the Chernobyl plant and how many hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of radioactive substances have been spilled into the Pacific Ocean from the coast of Japan, not to mention hundreds of thousands of people who have had to leave their homes permanently. Let us therefore adopt a more measured discourse. I am not going to any trial here: I say that minimum wisdom requires balancing the composition of the energy mix, particularly in terms of electricity generation. The nuclear industry is very technical and raises problems of social acceptability. She's very heavy. At a time when we are considering getting out of it, we are discovering the complexity of such an approach. It is also subject to new security requirements. So I will adopt a more cautious speech than yours, Mrs. Le Pen. The economic arguments are successively broken down, especially since we do not control the costs. As for renewable energies, they are now much more mature than they were before. Bringing their share of the energy mix to a 50% level will, I believe, allow me to demonstrate – because I cannot convince you only by words – that they will strengthen France's energy sovereignty, to which I know you very much. They will also provide one to countries that are less economically powerful than France, and will therefore be a factor of equity on a global scale. In particular, it is important that Africa – if you allow me this brief digression – produces the energy it consumes within its borders, from the free energy sources of wind, sun and biomass. It seems to me that we can all agree that we must not put all our eggs in the same basket, which in this case is to target the 50% target. I am absolutely convinced that this choice is valid socially, ecologically and economically. The cost of renewable energy is decreasing – this is already the case for solar energy, and wind, biomass and geothermal should follow. They employ much simpler technologies than the nuclear industry and their shutdown is much easier than that of a nuclear reactor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u143	Believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u144	The question-and-answer session on the nuclear exit strategy is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u145	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u146	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u147	The next item is the question of developments in the Middle East and recognition of the Palestinian State. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and answer at two minutes. We begin with the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u148	Madam President, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, as the situation in the Middle East is extremely worrying, as the armies of the major regional powers approach and begin to confront each other directly in Syria, as the right-wing Israeli government, supported by the extreme right-wing parties, radicalizes and intensifyes the colonization and construction of the wall, and as the United States pursues a policy of tension by recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and thereby decredible itself as actors in the negotiations for peace, France must become again, as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, but also with the support of the great European nations within the Union, a leading player in peace in the Middle East. France's recognition of the Palestinian State would undoubtedly give our diplomacy weight in resolving this conflict. Far from being unilateral, joining the 138 countries that already recognize that State would be a major diplomatic gesture. This recognition by France would be a positive signal to the UN prior to the establishment of the international conference that Mahmoud Abbas, the President of the Palestinian Authority, calls for. Paris could also apply to host this conference. This diplomatic gesture would finally send a strong signal to Israel that France, even if it was a friendly country, could be more firm in the face of Israeli military actions in Palestine. While a motion for a resolution was adopted here in December 2014, calling on the French Government to recognize the Palestinian State with a view to achieving a final settlement of the conflict, no French Government had the wisdom to follow this proposal of Parliament. President Macron, who wants to see the conditions for drawing up a roadmap for the resolution of the conflict in 2018 emerge, could start with this gesture, both courageous and concrete. This recognition would mark another step towards the two-State solution, advocated by France and the United Nations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Minister, how does France implement the motion resolution on the recognition of the Palestinian State? Could you also give us your timetable for action?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u149	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u150	Mr President, since the founding of Israel, France has been advocating for the creation, alongside Israel, of a viable and independent Palestinian state – I insist on these two adjectives, because the choice of words is important. The goal is to have two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security, within secure and recognized borders, with Jerusalem as the capital of the two States. That's our position. And if we plead for the creation of this Palestinian State, it is not for the sake of symmetry, but because our deep conviction, which is shared by the European Union and by the vast majority of the international community, is that the two-State solution is the only one that can secure peace. That is our objective. The way to achieve this is through negotiation, and the framework for achieving it is international law, and in particular Security Council resolutions. It is in this context that the question of the recognition of a Palestinian State arises. The request made by Mahmoud Abbas naturally gives special relevance to this question. The President of the Republic was clear on this point: he said that recognizing Palestine today would be a unilateral reaction to a unilateral decision that caused trouble in the region, and he added that he would do so at the time he deemed it appropriate. That is our course of action. That does not mean that nothing must be done. We support, through our diplomacy, the resumption of negotiations; We are strengthening Palestinian capabilities through our cooperation – I will probably have an opportunity to say a word about it a moment ago; Finally, as the President of the Republic has done, we ask for the freezing of colonization. We are therefore, as you can see, preparing the conditions for a future Palestinian State. Recognition will take place at the time when the President of the Republic decides, and at the time when international conditions will allow it in the most effective way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u151	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u152	Minister, in the infernal daily of the Palestinians, the most flagrant injustice is the Kafkai absurd dispute. In Gaza, the blockade, with its endless list of import-prohibited products, has implications for the nutrition and health of the people, including children. In East Jerusalem, annexed, it is the land policy that insecures the Palestinians. An exclusionary tool, it is a machine designed to impose the objective of Benjamin Netanyahu and his far-right allies: to make Jerusalem the capital of the Israeli state. In the West Bank, a map must be taken to understand the abyss of the population. You know this map. Published by a French monthly, it draws a territory which, from the Ramallah region in the north to the Bethlehem region in the south, has turned into an open-air prison. In the territories, where Israeli settlements are concerned, there is no fundamental freedom of movement: it takes five hours for a Palestinian to travel 50 kilometres. Characterized by a juxtaposition of areas under Israeli, mixed or Palestinian control, characterized by road segregation, its separation wall with its agricultural doors with random opening, this fragmented map shows that all geographical continuity is prohibited for Palestinians. It's a fragmentation map: today it produces hatred that will lead to explosions of violence for tomorrow. If yesterday, again, the Israeli power invoked its security to justify all these geographical, legal and administrative measures to prevent life, today the Netanyahu government and the far right have moved to another stage. It is a matter of making physically impossible a two-state peace solution and, worse, of making Palestinians second-class citizens on the sole ground that they are not Jews – it is the dream of the Israeli Minister of Justice. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Mr Minister, can France and the European Union continue to remain silent about the gradual establishment of an apartheid regime in the Palestinian territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u153	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u154	Mr President, I said earlier that the Palestinian state must be viable: I meant a state in which one can live.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u155	This is not the case today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u156	I have already had the opportunity to reiterate France's position on colonization on several occasions, and the President of the Republic presented it directly to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during his visit to Paris. France pays particular attention to the living conditions of the Palestinians. Today, we are concerned about the dire humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip. The Territory has been in a permanent humanitarian crisis for more than a decade, as a result of the Israeli blockade that began in 2007 and the three successive conflicts with Israel in 2009, 2012 and 2014. The situation has worsened further in recent months as a result of the deteriorating energy situation, and the population now has access to electricity reduced to two hours a day. The number of people living below the poverty line exceeds 40 per cent, and 60 per cent of young Gazans are unemployed. I want to reiterate that France is and will remain fully committed to helping the people of Gaza, either directly or through the European Union. It already provides significant assistance in many areas, including food aid, vocational training and health. The situation is also very difficult in the West Bank, where the impact of the occupation on the daily lives of Palestinians and on the prospects for economic development. I am thinking in particular of the travel restrictions that you mentioned, and of access to resources. Finally, I am thinking of the situation of the Palestinian communities living in zone C, who live in precarious conditions, and even of permanent suspension, as a result of Israeli colonization, the consequences of which I have already mentioned. In this context, France and the European Union call on the Israeli authorities to respect their commitments under international law and international humanitarian law. In particular, they call for the lifting of restrictions on access and movement, so that humanitarian assistance can reach the Gaza Strip, and that goods and people can move freely, especially between the West Bank and Gaza. This is France's position, it is also the European Union's position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u157	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u158	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in disregard of international law, the Israeli government, an extreme right-wing government, illegitimately holds hundreds of Palestinian political prisoners, including many children. For years, the Palestinians had demanded the rights conferred on them by the Fourth Geneva Convention: the possibility of visiting their relatives, the end of medical neglect, the end of isolation and administrative detention and the possibility of studying, especially for children. There were an increasing number of children in Israeli jails: in November, there were 313 Palestinian minors imprisoned. I am thinking in particular of the young Ahed Tamimi, who has been imprisoned for more than fifty days, who is subjected to aggressive interrogations, sometimes at night, in the cold. Today I wish to convey the voice of our compatriot Salah Hamouri, who has been imprisoned since 23 August 2017 on the orders of Avigdor Liberman, figure of the Israeli far right and Minister of Defence: the reasons for his arrest have not been communicated to him and his relatives do not know where he is illegally detained. The judge in charge of this case initially decided on an administrative detention of six months, before reconsidering this decision on 5 September 2017, condemning Salah Hamouri to serve the remainder of his previous sentence. The order for administrative detention dates from 29 August to 28 February. There are therefore six days left, Minister, to demand even more strongly the release of Salah Hamouri. To this political imprisonment, we need a political response, forcefully carried by France. In Elsa Lefort's words, his companion: "If his detention were renewed, it would be dramatic for Salah and his relatives, but it would also be a real affront to France. It is the honour of French diplomacy, respect for human rights. Minister, in the face of this arbitrary and unjust decision, what steps are France taking for the immediate release of the French citizen Salah Hamouri?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u159	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u160	Madam Member, the French authorities are following the situation of Mr Hamouri, who has been detained by the Israeli authorities since 23 August and who has been in administrative detention. Mr Hamouri, like all French prisoners in the world who request it, enjoys consular protection under the Vienna Convention. As such, he was able to receive regular visits from the French consular authorities, the last of which was dated 15 February. The French authorities were also represented at each of the public hearings in which Mr. Hamouri appeared. Furthermore, since Mr. Hamouri's arrest, we have continuously transmitted specific requests to the Israeli authorities to put an end to his administrative detention regime, which does not allow him access to the charges against him. We also ask that all his rights be respected and that his family, in particular his wife and son, visit him. Finally, following Mr. Hamouri's transfer to Megiddo prison on 31 December, we supported the request of his relatives to return to the Qeziot detention centre, where he was previously present and where he could more easily receive visits, especially from his family. This demand, which we strongly supported, was met at the end of January. Finally, with regard to administrative detention, we call on the Israeli authorities to respect the Fourth Geneva Convention on the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. In this regard, we emphasize that the abuse and systematic use of administrative detention undermines the right to a fair trial and the rights of the defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u161	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u162	I am surprised that a friendly country of France, like Israel, remains deaf to the diplomatic demands of our country, whether they come from the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the President of the Republic. I hope that this country's position will evolve in the next few hours, as the situation becomes untenable. I come to Syria, where the conflict is intensifying and becoming more complex. It seems that our diplomacy is losing its scope and coherence. The Turkish policy in Afrin has been too little condemned, France's calls for calm after the military tensions between Israel and Iran have been inaudible, and the necessary firmness following Israel's attacks in Gaza, which is non-existent. French diplomacy must go beyond its habits, it must evolve and be firmer on the observance of the international rules of the United Nations, which are violated every day. Turkey, for example, is no longer a democratic regime. It is one of the largest jailers in the world for journalists, with more than 160 of them locked up and 112 media closed since 2016. Worse still, our parliamentary colleagues from the HDP, the third strength in the Turkish Parliament, have seen their immunity lifted: eighteen have been arrested and eleven are still imprisoned – let alone hundreds of local elected officials. This process seems to continue without the international community expressing any concern at Ankara. France, although having strong bilateral relations from Head of State to Head of State, seems paralysed by the scale of the tragedy. When will we dare go further? I want to point out that the department is too little involved in condemning these abuses – but you are going to have an opportunity at the moment to catch up, minister. Recently, regional tension has continued to rise by a step, owing to a lack of diplomatic work. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Minister, you often refer me to state sovereignty to avoid talking about it, but this one is of varying geometry. Shouldn't we rather ask ourselves what you are doing to ensure that the international conventions signed by each other are respected? That is the meaning of diplomatic action. In all circumstances, we expect the Foreign Minister to take action to put an end to wars, to relaunch the various multilateral peace processes, and to condemn Turkey's intolerable actions in Syrian territory more firmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u163	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u164	With regard to the situation in Turkey itself, Mr President, we have had the opportunity to speak emphatically about what we thought of the main interested parties, starting with President Erdogan. I have repeated this to each of my trips to Turkey, which has sometimes borne fruit. We are trying to take the most effective position possible. I want to tell you, since you're asking for strong voices and I'm not worried about mine. When I go to Ankara, I also meet the opposition leaders, and I act very clearly. With regard to Afrin, which we have already mentioned, Turkey's operation to secure its border is a source of concern for us, for several reasons. First of all, the campaign against Daesh is not over. Secondly, it intervenes in a particularly degraded context in Syria, against the backdrop of humanitarian disaster in eastern Ghouta and Idlib province. Finally, this Turkish incursion carries a risk of escalation, in particular because the regime intervenes at the request of the Kurds and also seeks to deploy to Afrin, with Iranian militias. A lot of people are travelling in this small area right now, MP, to the detriment, alas, of the civilian population. Turkey is an ally, a member of NATO. The security of its border is a legitimate interest, but Turkish operations must remain proportionate to this objective, which the President of the Republic told President Erdogan directly. We are entitled to expect Turkey to respect the strictest rules of international law in the conduct of these operations, which must be carried out without prejudice to civilians. We are concerned about this situation, but since the opportunity has been given to me once again, I would like to reiterate the place that the Kurds played at various times in the fight against Daesh, whether it is in Kurdistan – I met the new Kurdish Prime Minister last week in Erbil – or in the north-eastern Syrian area, where, under the authority of General Massum, their role was decisive in the eradication of Daesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u165	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Delphine O has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u166	My question concerns the situation in Yemen. This conflict, which began more than three years ago as a tribal war, has now become a theatre of operations for neighbouring powers, which crystallises regional rivalries without summarizing them. On the one hand, the decisive Storm coalition, led by Saudi Arabia with some ten Arab countries, engaged in a major military operation and increased bombings to crush the Houthis rebels. On the other hand, Iran is accused, still recently by a United Nations report, of continuing to violate the arms embargo in Yemen. This war is now considered by the United Nations as "the most serious humanitarian crisis the world is currently experiencing". The numbers are cold in the back: more than 10,000 dead and several tens of thousands injured, 17 million people, or more than half of the Yemeni population, find it difficult to feed themselves every day, not to mention the cholera epidemic that affects more than 500,000 people. Mr. Minister, you know this humanitarian disaster. France has played its part in obtaining from Saudi Arabia, thanks to the action of the President of the Republic, a partial lifting of the blockade imposed by the coalition, which prevents the supply of basic necessities and medicines. But, above all, Emmanuel Macron recalled "that there was no military solution to the conflict in Yemen and that it was essential that both sides return to the negotiating table". What are France's diplomatic efforts to convince Saudi Arabia and the coalition that a military victory is impossible in the short and medium term, and to play a mediation role, alongside the new UN special envoy for Yemen, Martin Griffiths, appointed last week, in order to bring together the parties to the conflict – the coalition, the Houthis, and why not Iran, around the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u167	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u168	The situation in Yemen is catastrophic, and it has deteriorated again in recent weeks. A coalition of southernist groups opposed to President Hadi took control of most of the city of Aden, where the government was based. We are witnessing, in a way, a chain of conflict between President Hadi's government and the Houthis, between the Houthis and the Arab coalition, between the supporters of former President Saleh and the Houthis who murdered him, not to mention the active presence of groups linked to AQPA – Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula – or in Daesh, and now between the southernists and the government. The first victims are civilians and you are right to recall that the Yemeni people are facing a threefold crisis: humanitarian, health and food. In this critical context, France's demands are clear: a ceasefire, which allows unimpeded humanitarian access. Moreover, it is not an option, but an obligation of international law, which is binding on all parties. We have communicated this directly to the Emirian authorities and those of Saudi Arabia. There are elements of facilitation so that the port of Hodeida can be accessed, even partially, which is still insufficient. The Arab coalition has taken action, as it has announced €1.5 billion in humanitarian aid to Yemen. The whole problem is to make sure that this help comes. This is proof, in any case, that the voice of the international community, in particular that of France, has been heard. I have asked the director of the crisis centre and the director of multilateral affairs of the Quai d'Orsay to visit Riyadh as soon as possible, to study with the Saudi authorities how best to channel the aid that can be mobilised thanks to the €1.5 billion announced. However, there will be no lasting peace in Yemen without a political solution. That is why we fully support the initiatives that could be taken by the new UN Special Envoy for Yemen, Mr Martin Griffiths. We are counting on him for a political process to overcome this catastrophic impasse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u169	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u170	Mr Minister, in recent months we have seen a certain weakening of Daesh's forces in the Middle East. Since the symbolic takeover of the city of Kobane, in northern Syria, in 2015, the organisation of Daesh has been losing ground and is now located in only a few areas on the eastern shore of the Euphrates and in a few villages in the north-west. This long-term fight against Daesh was possible thanks to strong coordination of international action. While many thought that the Middle East could return to a relative balance, even if the north-western part of Syria and Ghouta remained affected by fighting, the situation is now quite different. The humanitarian situation in Syria is alarming, if not catastrophic. Just three days ago, attacks by Syrian regime forces killed nearly 100 civilians, including many children, in eastern Ghouta, a province in which 400,000 civilians are already besieged by the army of Bashar al-Assad, 750 of whom are awaiting an emergency medical evacuation that is denied to them. Syria is also in a state of flames in its northern region of Afrin, where several civilians were killed and injured as a result of Turkish air attacks aimed at dislodging Kurdish fighters from the area. In this context, France must take strong action, commensurate with the dramatic humanitarian situation in the Middle East. Providing humanitarian assistance in this region will be all the more complex as access to the most affected areas is limited. In a recent meeting with Recep Tayyip Erdogan, President of the Republic of Turkey, the President of the Republic recalled the absolute need to meet the humanitarian needs of the Syrian civilian population, in parallel with the fight against Daesh. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Faced with the very sharp deterioration of the humanitarian situation in Syria, what does France intend to do? What concrete measures can be envisaged and implemented in the coming days and weeks to help the Syrian people?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u171	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u172	Mr President, you mentioned the situation in Afrin: I will not go back to it, because I spoke about it earlier. Above all, I would like to convey to you the seriousness of the situation in the eastern Ghouta area, where 400,000 civilians are now locked up. Since January, there has been only one humanitarian convoy. Hospitals were destroyed by bombardments. Every day, about a hundred people die. At this moment, a land offensive is being prepared which, if carried out, could lead to what I called the day before yesterday in this House a humanitarian cataclysm. To avoid this, the President of the Republic strongly supports the resolution currently under discussion at the United Nations. If adopted, this resolution would allow for a 30-day truce in all areas, except in areas where Daesh and Al-Qaeda are combated, the delivery of humanitarian aid by the Red Cross and United Nations agencies, and the evacuation of people whose lives are in danger, since there are no more hospitals. This text, strongly supported by France, is on the table. It has also been discussed by the Russians and is to be voted on. I want everyone to be aware of their responsibility in this matter. If the text is adopted, we could enter a more positive phase and begin to address the issue of the political settlement of the crisis, but first of all, in order to avoid the forthcoming crisis, it is important that this resolution be voted on. The vote is taking place right now, and I really hope that the result will be positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u173	Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u174	Minister, France and Lebanon maintain the bonds of faithful, solid and old friendship. Since its independence in 1920, within the borders that had been defined by France, Lebanon has lived in diversity and multi-confessionalism, which have gradually forged its identity, its pluralistic and original model. The balance of this model, so specific, may seem threatened today. Indeed, the war in Syria has the effect of increasing population flows between the two neighbouring countries, so that the population of Lebanon has increased from 4 million to 6 million in three years. This massive influx of population, mostly Sunni, also destabilizes the country's demographic and religious balance. Hence, the priority now seems to be to facilitate the return of the populations of origin. The conditions for this return must be guaranteed and France must be the guarantor. At the same time, Lebanon has recently faced a renewed tension on its southern border with the State of Israel, following Lebanon's signing on 9 February of its first contracts for the operation of gas and oil sites off its coast. France's voice is particularly expected in Lebanon. It is, more broadly, to help pacify relations between the State of Israel and its Arab neighbours. Finally, it is so in order to guarantee the conditions for regional political stability. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, in view of this worrying and complex situation, what path does French diplomacy intend to take in order to meet all these challenges? How can Lebanon be allowed to control its territory and population and to exercise its full sovereignty, to which France is particularly committed?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u175	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u176	Mr President, you are right to stress the general situation in Lebanon, which must bear the heavy burden of the influx of refugees, particularly from Syria, but also from other countries: it has welcomed in particular Palestinians and Iraqis at various times in its history. You are right to mention the figures, even though there has never been a census in Lebanon since 1932, for political reasons in particular. So the assessments are a little wet, with the different confessions to be represented, but I am not in favour of a new census. However, this country receives, in proportion to its population, the most refugees in the world. On the other hand, you stressed the fragility of the political system. I will visit Lebanon after the May elections. Pending this deadline, Lebanon too often remains hostage to regional tensions. Hezbollah has emerged strengthened from its engagement in Syria alongside Bashar al-Assad and Iran, but it is weakening Lebanon: it is a source of tension with Israel, which is rightly concerned about the military potential of this organization. You also mentioned tensions in the border area, especially at sea, since gas was found around the exclusive economic zone. I have already had the opportunity to discuss this subject, including with Prime Minister Hariri: a solution must be found through dialogue. In the face of this crisis, we have taken several initiatives. First, a conference on Syria and refugees – which will therefore concern Lebanon – will be held in Brussels in April, in order to help Lebanon ensure this important burden. Secondly, we took the initiative of the Rome 2 Conference to be held in March and will aim at strengthening State institutions, including those of the Lebanese armed forces. Finally, in the economic field, we will examine, at the Cèdre conference to be held in Paris in early April, all ways to help Lebanon improve its public infrastructure, particularly in the areas of transport, electricity and water. As you can see, France is very attentive to the evolution of Lebanon. It gives it its full support and is aware of the difficulties and frailties. It trusts in the sense of the responsibilities of the Lebanese political leaders, which will enable them to overcome this difficult period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u177	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u178	Mr Minister, the agreement on Iran's nuclear power has been, after twelve years of bitter negotiations, an exceptional diplomatic victory, a huge step towards peace, just as much as the commitment to nuclear non-proliferation is a guarantee of security in the Middle East and in the world. In 2015, this agreement between France, the United Kingdom, Germany, the United States, Iran, China and Russia led to Iran's obtaining, on the one hand, the limitation of uranium enrichment and plutonium production, and, on the other hand, the increased controls carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency – IAEA. In return, Iran was able to benefit from the gradual lifting of sanctions applied by the United Nations, the European Union or the United States. The Iranian population has been able to escape its isolation. France has a historic link with Iran and has quickly become its fourth largest economic partner, thanks to companies such as Total, Vinci, Renault, PSA Peugeot-Citroën, or Airbus. The President of the United States wants to withdraw from the agreement, or at least amend it, while the IAEA has indicated that it is respected, as confirmed by António Gutteres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The United States invokes Iranian ballistic missile fire, but this subject is unrelated to the agreement. Donald Trump is supported by the Sunni monarchies of the Gulf, who denounce the financing of Hezbollah, as well as its ties to Syria. A period of one hundred and twenty days, which will expire on 12 May, has been given to Europeans to accede to its proposed amendments. In search of more political and social freedom, but also in anticipation of an economic recovery that benefits all, Iran's young and urban population is revolting today and aspires above all to new ties with the rest of the world, which this agreement opens to it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, what is the position of France and Europeans on the American proposals? Are the ongoing social movements in Iran perceived as an additional threat to the agreement? What would be the consequences of the United States withdrawal on multilateralism, knowing that the international agreement was being respected? Finally, what sanctions will be applicable to companies that will continue to maintain trade relations with Iran and that are also located on US soil or that release their transactions in dollars?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u179	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u180	Mr President, as you recalled, President Trump said that he would not renew the lifting of the US sanctions on 12 May if Congress and the US allies did not correct what he considers to be structural weaknesses of the agreement. I repeat, France considers that the Iranian nuclear agreement must be preserved. It is a robust agreement, which ensures that Iran's nuclear programme will not be diverted for military purposes. We do not want to renegotiate it, because it is a good agreement for the interests of Europe, the Middle East, the international community, and the non-proliferation regime. However, we are discussing with the United States how to address their concerns, while preserving the agreement. We continue these discussions in close cooperation with the guarantors of the agreement, since the signatories are not only the United States and France, but also Great Britain, Germany, China, Russia and the European Union. We share some concerns with the Americans: Iran's ballistics programme is a source of great concern and is contrary to resolution 2231. It is not because we are in favour of maintaining the nuclear agreement that we are not concerned with Iranian ballistic capabilities. We are also concerned about Iran's attempts at hegemony in the Middle East, particularly in Syria and Iraq, and we say so. We therefore have a demanding dialogue with Iran on respect for the agreement and on actions that threaten regional stability. In my reply to Mr Lecoq, I said that there were Iranian elements in the Afrin area, which is not part of Iranian territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u181	There are also French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u182	Iran must therefore answer those questions. I will travel to Tehran very soon to tell the Iranian authorities. With regard to sanctions, if the United States withdrew from the Vienna Agreement, Europe and France did not intend to do so. In this case, we will denounce the extraterritorial sanctions applied directly by the United States to French companies, as they will not be in conformity with international law. I'm telling you right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u183	Strongly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u184	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u185	Minister, I would like to ask you about the current situation in Palestine. Last Tuesday, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas called on the UN Security Council to hold an international conference in the coming months to advance the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. Today we must take into account the determination of Mr Abbas to favour multilateral and balanced discussions. More than ever, France must make its voice heard in this decisive negotiation. It is not desirable for the United States to be the exclusive voice of mediation in this dialogue. Be assured, Minister, that we are committed to a two-State solution that would be viable and sustainable for both Palestine and the State of Israel, and that would allow every citizen to live in freedom, security and equality. Minister, I will ask you three questions. Is this not a major challenge for stability and peace in the Middle East? What role does France intend to play in these international discussions? What position will it take with its interlocutors, particularly Israelis and Palestinians?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u186	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u187	Mr President, I have already recalled France's constant position on resolving the conflict between Israel and Palestine, stressing that our country wants the political settlement of the situation. The objective, which has been repeated by the international community, is to reach two States that live in security within recognized borders and have both Jerusalem as their capital; the framework is that of international law; As for the method, it is that of negotiation. We are now following these guidelines, which we are repeating to each other. When President Macron received Prime Minister Netanyahu or President Abbas, he said the same thing to both, and this thing we publicly say. We are, it is true, in a particular phase, primarily because of President Abbas' initiative in the Security Council to hold an international conference in 2018 on the basis of the Arab peace initiative of 2002. Why not? We have already stressed that this method is of interest to us and that we are ready to consider such a development. At the same time, mention is made of the announcement, which is said to be imminent, of a proposal for an American peace plan. I had the opportunity to meet in Washington, D.C., Mr. Kushner, who is responsible for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u188	That's not reassuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u189	I have no particular element in this respect, which is supposed to be made public. When it is, we will appreciate the initiatives France can take in line with its constant position, which you know. Our dearest hope is that a peace initiative will gradually achieve the goals we have set ourselves and that the Security Council has repeated – a Council that, in our view, has the strength of international law, which must be respected by both.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u190	We turn to the questions of the Republican Group. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u191	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and European Affairs, France has strong historical, cultural and human ties with Israel. It was one of the first countries to recognize the new State and establish diplomatic relations with it as early as 1949. There is a strong French and French-speaking community in Israel, and France counts on its territory the first Jewish community in Europe. Israel's security and its right to exist and live in peace is a central pillar of French politics in this region of the world. France is also a long-standing advocate for the establishment of a Palestinian State. For our country, the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict requires the coexistence of two States living in peace and security along secure and recognized borders. I read with great attention and interest the speech of our Ambassador to the United Nations, Mr. François Delattre, at the recent Security Council meeting on the Middle East, at which the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, called for an international conference in mid-2018, with a view to creating a "multilateral mechanism" for peace and the creation of a Palestinian State. The National Assembly, in December 2014, had itself called on the Government to recognize the State of Palestine for a final settlement of the conflict, in the context of a resolution that had defrayed the chronicle and which our parliamentary group had not voted for. For the Republicans, recognizing the Palestinian state unilaterally, without a comprehensive European strategy, is inappropriate, unwelcome and at least ineffective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u193	To quote the precise words of our Permanent Representative in New York, France is open to "the idea of studying an evolution of the international support formats for the peace process". In concrete terms, Mr. Secretary of State, what part does France intend to take in this matter? Does she intend to revive a past conference? Will it take the initiative for a new international conference? Mr Le Drian has, at the moment, recalled the great constants of the position of the Quai d'Orsay, which I support, and stressed that he is awaiting the announcement of an American plan. How can we decipher the words of our Permanent Representative and what active and concrete part will France take in this next arrangement?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u194	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u195	We subscribe to the philosophy of the "at the same time", which you mentioned: the existence of strong ties with the State of Israel and, at the same time, the strong will of France to obtain the creation of the Palestinian State. You have referred to the latest developments, in particular President Abbas' proposal to the UN Security Council, which outlines a Palestinian strategy based on three pillars with a view to reaching a final settlement. The first of these pillars is the holding of an international conference bringing together Israelis, Palestinians, a large part of the international community, including the countries of the region, the quartet – the United Nations, the European Union, the United States and Russia – as well as the permanent members of the Security Council. He hoped that this conference would lead to an international mechanism to accompany the negotiations. The second pillar consists, for each of the parties, of refraining from unilateral measures, such as, on the one hand, the extension of Israeli settlements or, on the other, the multiple candidatures of Palestine to various international organizations. The idea is to refrain from taking such measures. Finally – third and final pillar – Mr Abbas called for the implementation of the Arab peace initiative, which, as early as 2002, offered Israel recognition from all Arab countries after the signing of a peace agreement. The point made by the Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations is that our country welcomes these proposals with interest and is ready to consider them in conjunction with all stakeholders, including Israelis and Palestinians. Under the previous quinquennium, France has activated an international conference, which has enabled several elements to be consolidated, without, however, the results having been prolonged. It is important to observe how the mechanism proposed by President Abbas can be put in place. France will then notify, without deviating from its conviction of reaching two states.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u196	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for her second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u197	Secretary of State, ravaged since the 1980s by repeated wars and a long embargo, Iraq has to face the enormous challenge of its reconstruction. The international conference that took place in Kuwait ten days ago provided an estimate of the amount needed for the reconstruction of Iraq, which is in the order of 72 billion euros. On this occasion, Le Drian said that France "must now be there to rebuild the country and first of all the regions taken over by the jihadists". In a country where communities are fragmented and which faces, among other challenges, the fight against corruption, France's role must be both active and closely monitored over time. We will have to pay particular attention to what will happen in certain regions, I am thinking of Mosul – you will allow the Vice-President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs that I am to think about the University and libraries of Mosul – or the Nineveh plain. This area is in fact heavily disputed, as you know, some Christians in Iraq are worried about a temptation to "get a hold" on the plain of Nineveh, the true home of Eastern Christianity. Important sites need to be rebuilt, including the archaeological site of Nimroud, destroyed by Daesh, or the tomb of Jonas. I also have a thought for the Dominican Seminary of Mosul, founded in 1750. The Dominicans, together with the Digital Center for Oriental Manuscripts, have literally saved 8,000 Syriac, Chaldean and Armenian manuscripts. Can you, Mr Secretary of State, give us the outline of our country's action, particularly for the reconstruction of the University of Mosul? Moreover, this heritage must also be protected from the various traffickings that have contributed and continue to contribute to the financing of terrorism. While the existence of a French legislative arsenal makes it possible to combat the import of trafficked goods, there is also a draft European regulation on the control of the import of cultural goods: it offers an opportunity to work on a strengthened European dimension. Can you confirm that France supports this draft European regulation, in particular the double level of control, based on an import licence and on a self-certification device? Do you also think that France will be able to bring our European partners together towards a system in which the provisions on customs controls provided for in this draft regulation will be aligned with those of the European Union Customs Code? Although technical, this is a major issue in order to have a truly harmonised European framework for the control of cultural property.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u198	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u199	It is clear that France will stand alongside the Iraqis in rebuilding their country, as it was in the battle against Daesh. I visited Iraq last December: I had the opportunity to meet with your counterpart, the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs of the Iraqi Parliament, with whom I was able to talk at length about the situation in Mosul, through, in particular, the safeguarding of elements that participate in the heritage and wealth of this city. As you know, France is particularly committed in Mosul to the reconstruction of the Faculty of Medicine: €2.5 million have already been earmarked for this purpose. The first studies are under way. In addition, France will sign a general framework with Iraq in the coming weeks to address all reconstruction-related issues. It should be noted that our country announced a few months ago an exceptional loan of €430 million to Iraq, which will finance infrastructure projects in the water and energy sectors, particularly in the governorates affected by Daesh. Our companies must play their full part. This is why Jean-Yves Le Drian decided to create a task force, as they say in good French, which will bring together all French public and private actors in the reconstruction: it will take stock very regularly. With regard to cultural property, France has taken the initiative, alongside the United Arab Emirates, to create the ALIPH – Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas – fund, which aims to safeguard and restore heritage in conflict areas in coordination with UNESCO. France's new representative on the board of ALIPH, Bariza Khiari, was received at the Quai d'Orsay. An ambitious roadmap has been established to finalize the implementation of the fund and to clarify the methodology for selecting projects. In short, France, which has a long tradition in safeguarding the world's heritage, will continue to play this role. With regard to the European regulation you mentioned, the answer is yes: we support it, since it is compatible with our national framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u200	We continue with the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u201	Mr Secretary of State, the Palestinian people want to live in a sustainable, free and peaceful way. The right of peoples to self-determination must also concern the Palestinian people, within the framework of a recognized and independent State; This principle was the subject of an agreement adopted by the United Nations seventy years ago and has since been governed by international law. Reaffirming and assuming this conviction and historical reference is not incompatible with the will to lead and pursue, between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples, the necessary rapprochements for an organized cohabitation in peace, harmony and duration. Indeed, these two peoples are not doomed to fight each other forever and ever. On the other hand, recent initiatives have gone against this approach. The continuation of Israeli colonization in the West Bank to impede territorial continuity and the US President's stance contribute to abhorring this conflict, which continues to provoke exasperation, anger, violence and new tragedies that weigh heavily on the regional context that does not need this, as it is fragile and uncertain. President Mahmoud Abbas, on his way to New York last Tuesday, called for an international conference to create a multilateral mechanism to relaunch the peace negotiations. Does France share this will and is it prepared to put itself in practice in this perspective in line with its history and vocation? Does France intend to define a strategy to join in this objective of respect for international law and the creation of a Palestinian State? Mr. Secretary of State, elements have already been given in response to previous questions, but this is an essential subject, which justifies the Government's position being formulated on several occasions, in so far as it concerns a shared concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u202	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u203	You are right, honourable Member, a number of positions have created trouble in the region. There is no question for us to respond to the disorder by another disorder and therefore to a unilateral decision by another unilateral reaction. We are in a careful phase of study of the proposals put on the table. We are indeed studying the three-pillar plan proposed by President Abbas, which I referred to earlier. As Jean-Yves Le Drian has said, we are also waiting for American proposals which we are told could be put on the table very soon. It is in the light of all these elements that we will see how it is possible to act. In any case, it is very clear that France will do everything possible and will naturally use its force of conviction to contribute to any solution that might be outlined or to any process that might reasonably be expected to finally resolve these problems for too long. So we are at a very special moment. A number of other proposals need to be made. When the time comes, of course, we will notify. In any event, we will live up to France's duty and the voice of France in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u204	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u205	Mr Secretary of State, while diplomacy is similar to the art of reconciling the ideas and interests that separate peoples, French diplomacy, it seems to me, has this particular responsibility to bear the humanist principles that are those of France. With the war that has ravaged Syria for seven years, French diplomacy passes a major test. Through its support, from the outset, for the Syrian democratic revolution and the denunciation of the crimes of Bashar al-Assad, our diplomacy has brought its values high. The Syrians will not forget it. But, as the conflict got bogged down, it too found itself in a stalemate. In 2013, she had to follow, despite her, the US President's decision not to intervene in Syria despite the marked crossing of the famous red lines. In 2015, she watched the Russians intervene to re-establish a weakened Syrian regime and regain diplomatic power. Today, it is still watching the Turks bomb Afrin and the regime of Bashar al-Assad crush eastern Ghouta. The failure of the de-escalation zones and the recent Sochi fiasco have only confirmed one observation: Russia no longer controls the diplomatic and military game, but it retains the ability to block it by using its veto power at the UN. Mr Secretary of State, I think you will agree with me: our country has an obligation to act. From this perspective, can you tell us what France's strategy is on this issue, within the framework of the United Nations and beyond? What are our means of action in this crisis? Finally, what are your objectives for the forthcoming discussions in Moscow and Tehran?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u206	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u207	Member, like you, for many years we have seen these terrible images of destruction and constant wars. We have never resolved to do so. The last few days show that the situation has deteriorated considerably. Indeed, it was a real alarm signal that was fired. As you know, Jean-Yves Le Drian met yesterday with António Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, while the Security Council is called to meet today at 18.00 French time, that is, in a few moments. In this Security Council, France acts to ensure that a humanitarian truce is decreed – it is the most urgent. After the failure of the Sochi conference, which you have just mentioned, we wish to relaunch the legitimate United Nations process in Geneva as soon as possible. To that end, and to answer your question about our objectives, we have proposed a text that combines the ideas of Constitution, elections and conditions aimed at ensuring an impartial political transition process that includes all minorities. These principles are endorsed by our closest partners. It is now necessary to extend this base to all the influential countries in Syria: it is the object of the displacement of Jean-Yves Le Drian to Moscow on 27 February. The President of the Republic, Jean-Yves Le Drian and all those involved in French diplomacy maintain a dialogue with all actors in the region. The Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs will also visit Tehran on 5 March. As you can see, France always wants to be at the initiative, at the action, despite the complexity of the situation you know. Once again, we have the fervent desire to try to unravel the tangle and make a positive contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u208	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u209	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of recognition is essential since it is through this unilateral act that an existing State officially takes note of the existence of a new State on the international stage, which has many consequences for the rights of that State, such as the consecration of its sovereignty. Sovereignty implies the control, by a government, of its territory and therefore of its resources, including water. However, while the region of the Middle East is experiencing a shortage of water, it turns out that Israel controls all water resources in the region of Palestine and chooses the share of water delivered to the Palestinian territories. If the 1995 Oslo agreements were to govern this management for a period of five years, they have not been updated. In addition, Israel's strict safety rules prevent the construction of water treatment or sanitation plants. Yet the issue of water appears to be one of the key points of the peace process. France is already working towards a rebalancing of the network through the Agence française de développement, which has committed €282 million since 2001 for structural and emergency projects. Does France intend to step up its action in the Palestinian territories in order to enable more people to access drinking water? In conclusion, I wish to take up President Chirac's words of 13 November 2008 at an international conference entitled "Water for Peace, Peace for Water". "Water fertilizes life. It allows to grow, to quench, to eat, to wash. The forms of its use and its sharing are confused with those of civilization. All cultures, from the Sahel to China, from Mesopotamia to the Indians of America, from Gaul to India, celebrated it and maintained an intimate, special and yet universal relationship with it. » [[Applause on several benches of MODEM and REM groups]] On this issue, and more specifically in the territory of Palestine, our nation, which has universal values, must be at the forefront for water and life to flow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u210	Excellent original question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u211	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u212	I am happy to answer this "excellent original question" to repeat what has been said on your benches. Indeed, water resources are scarce in Palestine: they depend in part on the Jordan, which flows 360 kilometres from Mount Hermon to the Dead Sea, and on groundwaters, which are heavily sought after. The issue of water is a key issue; This is one of the five outstanding issues for a final agreement, with the status of Jerusalem, borders, refugees and security. It should therefore be the subject of a negotiated agreement between Israelis and Palestinians, based on international law. We hope that a just agreement can be reached, with an equitable distribution of resources. France is doing everything to try to provide an acceptable answer to this question, but we can never live up to the problem! It should be borne in mind that 90 per cent of groundwater does not meet the health standards set by the World Health Organization, WHO. In the West Bank, Palestinians consume an average of 70 litres of water per capita per day when their neighbours consume 300 litres. Therefore, water is a priority of French bilateral cooperation. The French Development Agency has financed 13 water and sanitation projects in the Palestinian territories, amounting to almost €106 million; These projects have enabled 800,000 people to access drinking water. It is also that, preparing for peace! Another project would be structuring in the medium and long term: I want to talk about the famous link between the Red Sea and the Dead Sea. It would also be a response to the water problem. France has contributed to the financing of the studies of this project, but in order to go further, an agreement between Israel and Jordan is necessary, and we are working on this point for the time being. Undeniably, the implementation of this project would be an important response. In any case, we don't give up. You have seen that by encouraging projects, we are trying to provide answers, which unfortunately are just palliatives. You're right, MP, about the issues that you brought forward. We will be committed to conveying your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u213	The following two questions are asked by the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr Meyer Habib has the floor for a first question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u214	Mr Secretary of State, we could have expected the Communist Group to propose to us today a debate on the torment of the Syrian people, who have been martyred for seven years by a tyrant for Iran, responsible for 500,000 deaths, 320 of which since Sunday alone in Ghouta, where children have been gassed by chemical weapons – yes, by chemical weapons, Mr Secretary of State. We could have hoped for a debate on the Islamic Republic of Iran, the matrix of global jihadism, based militarily in Syria, that dreams of a new Shoah and wants to remove Israel from the map. Or a debate on the dramatic situation of Eastern Christians, some of whom were crucified in the literal sense of the term in 2015, on the 40 million Kurds without a state, on one of the 200 territorial conflicts around the world – Ukraine, Northern Cyprus, Tibet, Western Sahara – or on authoritarian and even Islamist drift in Turkey. No, still no! The friends of Chavez and Maduro have one and only obsession: Israel. The detestation of the Jewish state has become the political marker of Islamo-leftism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u215	You were not in the Chamber when we asked our questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u216	As I keep hearing today, between communists and unsubstantiated, even REM and MODEM, it is the overbidding to which will attack and strike the strongest on Israel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u217	We can see that you weren't here earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u218	These same deputies received as heroes here in the National Assembly the son of hyper-terrorist Barghouti, responsible for the assassination of dozens of civilians in Israel, and called for the release of Salah Hamouri, a member of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, who was condemned for an anti-Semitic attack on the great rabbi of Israel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u219	He didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u220	Colonies, apartheid, occupation: they only have these words in their mouths! Never, Mr. Secretary of State, will a Jew settle in Judea, in Samaria, or in Jerusalem. What apartheid are we talking about when the Arab minority is represented at all levels in Israel – in the Knesset, with fifteen deputies, in the Supreme Court or in the assistance of Miss Israel? Mahmoud Abbas, on the other hand, calls for a Jewish Palestinian state, without any Jew in Judea and Samaria. Secretary of State, Israel is our friend, our precious ally in the war against this terrorism that has killed 250 of us in the last three years. Israel is not the problem, but the solution. He is – listen carefully! – the last bulwark against Islamism and its movement towards Europe. Let us open our eyes: the Middle East is on fire and blood, and not on account of Israel. The "red line" drawn by the President of the Republic – chemical weapons – has been crossed, and you know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u221	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u222	Mr Secretary of State, rather than putting Israel on the bench of the accused, will France assume its responsibilities and intervene militarily in Syria?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u223	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u224	Mr President, our debate is not about Israel, but about the situation in the Middle East and the recognition of a Palestinian State. This afternoon we were able to discuss a broad spectrum of issues ranging from Yemen, to mention Delphine O's speech, to Syria, which was mentioned by several speakers, including Lebanon and Iraq, mentioned by Constance Le Grip. The exercise therefore tended to dezoomize. The Palestinian State and the State of Israel were mentioned. There was no scoop: the traditional elements of French doctrine were again recalled. I don't think we have to see a will to carry iron against anyone. Parliament is in its role when it asks the Government about very broad elements of foreign policy, about a very large area that is experiencing very volatile situations. In any event, I reaffirm France's total commitment to trying to work for peace in these various conflicts. You are referring to the role that certain States, including Iran, can play. France expressed concern about the development of ballistics and the Iranian presence in some territories. This is very clearly the subject of a dialogue with Iran and, just as we managed to reach an agreement on nuclear in 2015, we must continue to engage in dialogue on these issues in order to make the Iranian authorities aware of certain elements. This is also the subject of Jean-Yves Le Drian's move to Iran on March 5. As you can see, we have all of this in mind and are working, with discretion and, hopefully, with efficiency, by making statements that are perhaps more flat than yours, but that have at least the ambition to contribute to a response in the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u225	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u226	Secretary of State, this question will deal with Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u227	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u228	On Tuesday, before the UN Security Council, France reiterated its position in favour of a divided Jerusalem, the capital of two states. Always the same ideological posture...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u229	Islamo-leftism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u230	This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u231	Suffer to hear me, ladies and gentlemen, communists and unsubstantiated. At least respect...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u232	He's a little insulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u233	We listened to your hatred with great difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u234	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u235	Only Mr Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u236	I repeat, Madam President: always the same ideological posture, sheltered behind this so-called international consensus that has led our country to vote on outrageous UNESCO resolutions Islamizing the Temple Mount, the Western Wall, the Cave of the Patriarchs or Rachel's tomb, which are the most sacred places of Judaism. Still the same concept of colonization, held by the Quai d'Orsay for fifty years, while the Palestinian leaders are corrupt, as we have seen most recently with the misappropriation of European funds,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u237	And Ehud Olmert, he's never been tried?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u238	...and take their people hostage. Secretary of State, it is our entire Middle Eastern policy that suffers from outdated software. Albert Einstein said that madness is always to do the same thing and to expect a different result. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not a territorial conflict, but a war of civilization. On 6 December, the historic decision of the President of the United States to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel broke a status quo. A lasting peace cannot be built on the falsification of history. Last December, I reminded the President of the Republic of these magnificent lines of Chateaubriand, one of your illustrious predecessors at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the Itinerary of Paris in Jerusalem: "The Jewish people have witnessed the destruction of Jerusalem seventeen times, and nothing can discourage it, nothing can prevent it from turning its gaze towards Zion. Even in the darkest periods of its history, from the massacres of the Crusaders to the stakes of the Inquisition, from Cossack pogroms to the uprising of the Warsaw ghetto, Jerusalem never left the hearts and prayers of the Jewish people. Do you feel it? I do not live in Jerusalem, but I vibrate for Jerusalem – it is not mine, it is Elias Wiesel. I recall that, under Jordanian rule, from 1948 to 1967, synagogues were destroyed dozens in Jerusalem, the Western Wall was transformed into a dump and its access forbidden to Jews: Jerusalem outraged, Jerusalem broken, Jerusalem martyred, but Jerusalem finally liberated in 1967! Secretary of State, we are dreaming of a just peace in the Middle East. The President of the Republic, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and you can move the lines: when did the transfer of the French Embassy to Israel take place in Jerusalem?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u239	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u240	[[Smile]] Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u241	I recall that this issue of the status of Jerusalem should be resolved within the framework of a final peace agreement between Israelis and Palestinians allowing the establishment of two States living side by side in peace and security, with Jerusalem as the capital of those two States. Pending a negotiated settlement and under international law – we all bear in mind UN Security Council Resolution 478 of 1980 – France, like the international community as a whole, with a few exceptions, does not recognize any sovereignty over Jerusalem. As you know, France did not approve the American decision and the President of the Republic made a clear statement in this regard on the very day of this decision, which does not change France's position or that of the international community and does not change international law. The question is whether it is likely to contribute to the resolution of the conflict.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u242	We have to make an embassy on each side, as long as we recognize the Palestinian state!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u243	For us, the answer is negative, in the sense that it prejudiced the political process even before it started and somehow reinforced the asymmetry between the parties by preempting one of the final status issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u244	Two embassies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u245	As for your last question, you will understand that no positive answer can be given to it, because France wishes to defend respect for international law and allow negotiation and dialogue with all parties, while respecting these principles. That is all at stake, and these are our wishes for the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u246	Mr Christian Hutin, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u247	I have a great deal of respect for the Israeli people and the Palestinian people, as well as for the Secretary of State. All the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs present here have felt for some time that the current period is one of the most difficult that has weighed on our country and on the world. International tensions have never been so terrible. However, this is not a reason to forget the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is sometimes forgotten a little, especially because of the nearby Syria or Korea. It can become a powder box, for several reasons. The first is – let's be clear! – the strict colonization policy of the Netanyahu government, which is sometimes outside international law. The second is that we observe a paradigm shift – which you will no doubt confirm, Mr. Secretary of State – with, if not collusion, at least some kind of tacit agreement between Saudi Arabia and Israel against the absolute enemy of Iran. The third is that we do not have a bowl, with the arrival of an arsonist who, at the time when it was certainly not necessary to do so, decided to move the American embassy. [[Smile]] I very much like Mahmoud Abbas's statement that there is not one too many states in the Middle East, but one that is missing: that of Palestine. As a Gaullist I am – of the left, of course, but a Gaullist – I very much believe in the Arab politics of France. I remember Jacques Chirac saying, "Do you want me to go back to my plane? " Forgive my English: I'm not annoyed and am a very modest polyglot – if I understand Arafat's English and Chirac's English, the rest is more complicated! There was something there! Wealth, a symbol, an empathy for people who wanted to see the French president and a kind of resistance to violence that was not supposed to exist in these contacts – I say it kindly, Mr Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u248	There were 300,000 deaths in Syria!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u249	I hope that France will resume this balanced Arab policy that seemed right to me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u250	A balanced Arab policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u251	...for the defence of the Palestinian people and for the respect of the law of the State of Israel. Secretary of State, when are we going to resume the plane – but in the other direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u252	Everything is said in the question: "A balanced Arab policy"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u253	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u254	You have drawn up a picture of the forces at work. France's policy in the region seems to me to be "balanced" all at once. We take great care to be firefighters rather than arsonists, a role that is sometimes not obvious, given the sensitivity of the issues, but we do not give up. You also evoke, in the background, the growing rivalry between some of the region's great powers – Saudi Arabia and Iran. It is true that the positions have evolved a little over time and we see, through the theatres of operations interposed, this rise of rivalry. What we want is, over and over again, negotiation – talking to all stakeholders. The Head of State also showed this by stopping in Saudi Arabia a few months ago and obtaining some results, particularly in relation to Lebanese domestic policy. We continue tirelessly. Thus Jean-Yves Le Drian will, in the coming days, go to Iran, where I visited myself in July and September, to convey various messages. We want to establish channels of discussion, in order to help, perhaps, to loosen some vices. The ultimate objective, as you said, is, of course, that a French president can return under the best conditions, but know that France intends to be, once again, up to its responsibilities, whatever the difficulty of the task.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u255	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor on a second question. Dear colleague, thank you for respecting the time allotted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u256	I'm the only one in my group!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u257	He only exceeded his time by sixteen seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u258	Sixteen seconds isn't much! What's more, Mr. Habib said a little word that cost me ten seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u259	The difference is, I was interrupted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u260	I leave it to everyone to develop their arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u261	Madam President, you have presided beautifully! The problem was Mr. Meyer Habib's tone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u262	Only Mr Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u263	Forgive me, Madam Chair: my English is not perfect and that's why I dragged a little bit. My second question will be more technical, but I do not think it will be of any interest. Since the Oslo agreements, there has been a decentralized cooperation network for Palestine, which has worked very well and in which many French communities have invested. Then happened what happened: time is passing, community endowments are shrinking, and this cooperation is the first thing to cut or reduce. Seventy-five per cent of the Palestinian population is under the age of thirty. Pierre Viansson-Ponté warned, a few months before May 1968, of which it is soon the anniversary: the young people are bored. Young Palestinians, for their part, are not bored: they are precarised, sometimes humiliated, in difficulty; These are the soldiers of the intifada. Much of this decentralized cooperation has been used for culture and has helped young people. I have a proposal to make: the state will soon propose major agreements for large communities regarding their budgets. Why not include in these budget agreements a share of decentralised cooperation? It would seem to me quite a good idea, even if it is minimal. We could thus start back on a good basis, where France is still trying to be ahead of the events. You said earlier, Secretary of State: we can be firefighters, even as a preventive. If we could provide, with the Ministry of Economy, a bonus for large communities willing to continue decentralized cooperation, for Palestine as well as for other areas, particularly Africa, it would be a great thing. It's a technical question, I'm sorry, but it's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u264	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u265	You recall the commitment of a number of local authorities to decentralised cooperation. It has indeed grown considerably since the establishment of the Palestinian Authority in 1994: seventy French local authorities are engaged, with so many Palestinian partners, on very concrete projects in the areas of sustainable development, human exchange and culture. Every year, several million euros are mobilised by French local authorities for projects in the Palestinian territories. Adding the share of official development assistance that directly benefits Palestinian communities, the total amounts to almost EUR 10 million. Beyond this subject related to the Palestinian territory, an inter-ministerial committee on international cooperation and development, known as CICID, met on 8 February around the Prime Minister. In addition, this morning I convened the expanded CNDSI – the International Committee for Development and International Solidarity; Hubert-Julien Laferrière represented the National Assembly. We reaffirmed that the Government would increase the resources allocated to decentralized cooperation and contribute to it. This is really an important area. I don't think the tool you're advocating is the best. Contracts will be negotiated with the 319 largest French communities; We're in another logic. I encourage you to look at the conclusions of CICID, which, to a large extent, go in the direction you indicate. We are also working regularly with the National Commission for Decentralised Cooperation – CNCD – where we can see the significant mobilisation of local elected representatives. They know how to carry out concrete projects and thus contribute to the improvement of well-being and the living environment in situations that are sometimes alarming. This increases the number of merit and results.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u266	Thank you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u267	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u268	The conflict in Syria is taking place regionally and the civilian population is already paying a heavy toll. Eastern Ghouta is under the heavy fire of the Assad regime, which has announced its will to win back the entire country at any price. As I speak to you, there are already 400 dead and nearly 1,700 wounded. The city of Afrin is besieged by the Turkish army and Daesh ex-combatants recruited by Ankara. Erdogan wants to prevent the reunification of the Kurdish territories of Syria. The southern part of the country is the scene of renewed tensions between Iran and Israel. In this major conflict in the Middle East, France is now marginalized. It has abandoned its Kurdish allies to protect an unworthy and ineffective agreement to detain migrants in Turkey. It has remained crunched on the alliance with the Gulf petromonarchies, while the diplomacy of the Rafale conflicts with our fundamental values and contradicts the fight against international terrorism. Foreign interventions provoke a logic of deadly war and massive exiles, fuelling destruction and suffocating the democratic aspirations of all the peoples living in Syria. Today, the urgent need is for this violence to cease. We must therefore discuss with all parties, responding positively to the Russian proposal for a meeting of the United Nations Security Council. France must commit itself now to the cessation of the fighting and the establishment of a humanitarian corridor, which is indispensable for any political solution. Let us not reproduce a new Srebrenica, which would lead the region to the explosion. Let's not turn our eyes away: the world is looking at us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u270	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u271	We share the same acute concern – the term is weak – about the announced humanitarian cataclysm, which unfortunately began. We do not turn a blind eye because, at the very moment I am speaking to you, the representatives of France are participating in the meeting that is taking place in New York. Very clearly, we are pushing a resolution in the Security Council calling for a one-month humanitarian truce – that is the minimum. Beyond that, with our partners, we are working on the concrete modalities of a constitutional, electoral and credible process acceptable to all parties. No, France is not absent; it is not isolated or excluded from the enclosures. We can see that the Sochi process has made a flop, the credibility of the people who have gone there is rather weak. Today we are in a stalemate on this side. On the other hand, the time has come to broaden the group of countries that share our views and to set up the contact group that the President of the Republic called for a few months ago. This justifies the future travel of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to Moscow and Tehran. We will also have a meeting, certainly a little further away, with the European Union in Brussels in April on the future of Syria. The idea will be to strengthen our assistance to refugees and to recall that international financing for reconstruction is conditional on a credible political perspective. The current situation seems very difficult and will necessarily require answers that are all the more urgent and imperative. Perhaps things will move on that occasion; In any case, we wish, because we cannot resolve this humanitarian tragedy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u272	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u273	I would like to ask you about the situation in Palestine, which is extremely alarming. The Gaza Strip is on the brink of the humanitarian crisis. The geographical unity of the West Bank is more threatened than ever by the presence of 700000 settlers in these occupied territories. There have never been so many political prisoners in Palestine, including many children; allow me to quote Salah Hamouri and Ahed Tamimi. The far-right government in power in Israel blocks any attempt at peace, systematically burying the possibility of a two-state solution. On 6 February 2017, the Knesset adopted a law extending Israel's sovereignty to the whole of Palestine. Mr. Netanyahu, who is preparing a new text extending Israel's sovereignty to the five blocks of settlements east of Jerusalem, is now supported by President Trump, who recognized Jerusalem as the capital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u275	The objective is simple: to prepare for the annexation of Palestine and to bury any two-State solution for the benefit of an apartheid State. Only the Palestinian people continue to respect the rules of international law, renewing their commitment to a two-State solution and to United Nations resolutions. Mahmoud Abbas reminded the Security Council on Tuesday, calling for an international and multilateral peace conference. One hundred and thirty-seven countries recognize the existence of the Palestinian State. France cannot wait any longer. Recognizing the Palestinian State is not a position for either people: it is the simple application of law, justice, humanity, and it is the only way to guarantee the peace and stability of a region that is now at great risk. Mr Secretary of State, I ask the question frankly, and I confess that we are somewhat tired of asking it: when will the Government finally recognize the State of Palestine?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u277	The Secretary of State has the floor for the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u278	Madam President, we would like that to be the end word, with a happy end, as they say in English. Unfortunately, we still have a great deal of work to do to bring the word of the end to these multiple conflicts that are bloody the area. Your question has a lot to do with it, Mrs. Autain. In particular, you refer to the situation in Ahed Tamimi, which concerns the situation of a number of Palestinian minors detained by Israel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u279	Who slaps a soldier! Provoking! I wish this would happen in Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u280	There were 181 at the end of November 2017. Of course, we hope that the conditions of detention of Palestinian prisoners, regardless of their age, will be in conformity with the obligations laid down in international conventions and that, in the case of minors, the international convention protecting the rights of the child and its three additional protocols, to which Israel is a party, will apply. With regard to Gaza, the humanitarian situation is of great concern. France, for its part, continues to provide assistance in many areas – food aid, vocational training and health. It also ensures the presence of a French institute, the only foreign centre present in the band; the report published a few days ago in a great evening daily cannot fail to question us in this regard. With regard to the recognition of the Palestinian State and simply international law, we have repeatedly reaffirmed today that the objective is the two-State solution; the method is negotiation and not the response by a unilateral act to another unilateral act; The framework is international law. It may be tiresome to hear the same elements, but, outside this framework, no salvation! It is to be hoped that the proposals put on the table by President Abbas and the reactions they will generate will help to revive the sons of a dialogue that is so indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u281	The question-and-answer session is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-22-O1151.u282	Next sitting, Tuesday, 6 March, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government, Proposal for a European resolution on the prohibition of electric fishing, Motion for a European resolution on the first mobility package. The meeting is adjourned.
