ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law for a State serving a society of trust (No. 1222).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u3	Madam President, the chairman of the special committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the conclusion of the examination of the bill for a State serving a society of trust. After more than a hundred hours of parliamentary debate, the time has come for the National Assembly to take a final decision on this bill, which aims to create the conditions for a new relationship of trust between the French – be they individual, business leaders, presidents of associations – and their administrations. As I noted a few days ago to Senators and Senators, there is no need for too much detail on the content of a text that you are familiar with. One measure is enough to sum it up: the right to error, which was a strong commitment of the President of the Republic during the election campaign. Thanks to the important work done by both assemblies, the promise is being kept. We have avoided the trap of the multiplicity of exceptions, which would have emptied the measure of its substance, since this principle will number only six. The administration will have to radically change its position, since it will now have to make benevolence the rule vis-à-vis the user in good faith. Yes, we do, the administration must advise before sanctioning. However, I would like to reassure those of you who are concerned about a possible relaxation of the state's vigilance with regard to fraudulent behaviour, since at the same time I am defending, together with Gérald Darmanin who presented it to the Finance Committee last week, a bill to strengthen the fight against those who violate tax legislation. Against them, the State cannot be weak or tolerant. I would like to take this last opportunity to remind you of the four initial commitments made by the Government in the development of this bill. The first was to make the text, the first submitted by the Government to transform public action, an example of co-construction with parliamentarians. This commitment is, I believe, fulfilled. You were involved before the bill was drafted, during its consideration, but you will also be involved later in its implementation. Before, since many of you have participated in the preparatory work conducted with the support of a State adviser, Mr Thierry Tuot, whom I thank once again for his essential contribution. During this time, as evidenced by the richness of our discussions and the importance of the proposals that bear your imprint – the tax guarantee, the free call numbers, the extension of the mediation and the single contact person. Finally, since thanks to you the Government will support the Reform Council, which you have proposed to put in place to monitor the implementation of the law. We wager transparency, collective intelligence, by sharing with you the draft regulations, ordinances, and the results of the numerous experiments planned by the text. On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank Sophie Errante, the chairman of the special commission, Stanislas Guerini, rapporteur of the text, Laurent Saint-Martin and Mohamed Laqhila, who were the votes of the majority in your assembly. Beyond that, I would like to thank each and every one of you for whatever benches you sit on, our discussions were respectful and constructive. The second commitment was to leave much room for experimentation, which allows us to design the law more boldly and to be more effective, since it allows us to ensure that the aims pursued are well achieved before considering a generalization across the country. The fulfilment of this commitment can be found both in the many experiments contained in this text – I am thinking of the framework of the duration of the controls for SMEs – but also in the method we have chosen for the deployment of the whole text, once it has been voted on. The third commitment was not to make an umpteenth simplification law. We managed to hold it collectively, because the temptation was strong, both for the Government and for parliamentarians, to add to a law on the transformation of relations between citizens and the administration a multitude of provisions that were not directly related to the text. However, while this text contains simplification measures, such as the dematerialisation of certain procedures or the abandonment of certain over-transpositions, it is not a simplification text comparable to others that Parliament has seen in recent years. Our final commitment is that this text is only a beginning. The Bill for a Trusted Society is one of the bricks of a broader dynamic of public transformation. This dynamic is reflected in the Government's efforts to train our public officials. Changing texts is necessary but not enough. Above all, we must change our culture. As you know, the transition from a sanction administration to a consultancy administration is one of the priorities of the master plan for vocational training for the years 2018 to 2020. In 2018, 250 million euros have already been directed towards the transformation of public action. At the mandate level, €1.5 billion will be spent on the training of government officials. We must wage a real cultural battle, not against the agents, who ask only to have the necessary levers to always better meet the expectations of our fellow citizens, but against an administrative system forged by decades of habit. This system, which has established procedures and circulars as a basic law, leaves too little room for the taking of initiatives by agents, particularly in the area of transactions or mediation. We will continue these discussions during the review of the Public Service Transformation Bill in the first half of 2019, and we must welcome this. This dynamic is also reflected in our ability to invest in public transformation. Little has been said about the Public Action Transformation Fund, but it is at the heart of our strategy. By funding concrete projects that help us to better meet the expectations of users, notably through digital technology – whether it is dematerialization of approaches or the use of artificial intelligence – we are giving ourselves the means to keep the promise of a trustworthy society. The fund, with €700 million, which was first allocated a few weeks ago, will be completed by the end of the year for a total of €200 million in support of government investments during 2018. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, here we are. The last word is for you – unless it is the first, the beginning of the movement that will open the transformation of public action, the transformation of our administration into a benevolent and advisory administration. It is our collective responsibility to move from intent to action, to the service of all the French. Thank you for your work and attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u4	Mr Stanislas Guerini, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u5	Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Special Committee, there are many of us this evening – although not as many as to consider a motion of censure (Sorry) – to complete the legislative work started a few months ago. We come to the end of the process and we have the mission to guide the boat to a good port tonight. We will go back to the text as it was adopted for new reading in the National Assembly, and we will decide whether or not to adopt the few amendments adopted for new reading in the Senate. There's only three of them. I will propose that you adopt two of them, because they tend to improve the text. On the other hand, I will give an unfavorable opinion on the third. I would like us to take the time to measure the revolutions brought about by this text, which will apply immediately and produce very concrete effects for all our citizens. I will mention a few of them, which have made less noise than certain political positions, but which will change the lives of our fellow citizens more concretely. I am thinking first of all of the heads of companies running a TPE with a turnover of less than EUR 8 million. So far, they had to report annually on their management, which took them between two and three whole days. It's over. Now, once this text has been adopted, they will no longer have to do this work. We will thus return no less than 200 to 300 million euros to the TPEs of our country. I am thinking of a company manager, in Occitanie or elsewhere in France. Yesterday, when a dispute opposed it to the local USSRAFs, he could not access a mediation service. Thanks to this text, all the USSRAFs will have a mediation service and this head of company will be able to find solutions that will avoid litigation. I am thinking of this company that will have undergone a tax check in 2018 and another in 2022. As the law was designed, different conclusions could be opposed to it in 2022, which was likely to lead to tax relief. It's over. Thanks to the improvements made by our house to this bill, the findings of the tax controls will become effective against third parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u6	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u7	I am thinking of this entrepreneur who would like to launch an innovative transport activity on the Seine. Yesterday, he faced a very high degree of legislative uncertainty. Tomorrow, thanks to the information certificate that we wanted to adopt, it will be able to secure the launch of its activity, which will allow us to multiply and release the energies in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u8	Ah! Free the energies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u9	But yes, dear colleague: we assume to release the energies. Let's think about this public service officer – I'm sure you think about it every day, Mr. Bernalicis –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u10	What I think about every day is freeing up the energies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u11	... that has to solve a complex, uncertain case. Yesterday, he had to wait for the decision of an administrative tribunal. Tomorrow, thanks to this text, he will be able to propose to the user a solution of transaction, concerted, negotiated. Let us think of this mother who, by making a unique appointment to her family allowance fund, will be able to meet the rights, dealing not only with matters of family allowances, but also with matters relating to her health and employment. Thanks to the principle of the single referent that you have adopted, it will be referred to these administrations. All these changes will become a reality for our citizens. Let us be proud of this text. I am the rapporteur. Thanks to this text, we introduce the right to error, this second chance which was a promise of the presidential campaign. If we want this revolution, we must have the spirit of revolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u12	Oh, there! The Revolution is a bad memory: it's brought down heads!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u13	To do this, the proper enforcement of this law must become our obsession. That is why we will use all our energy, involving all the political groups that will agree to participate in our work, to make the Reform Council work, which we discussed with the Bureau of the Special Committee earlier. It will follow, in a very concrete way, the implementation of the text: decrees, ordinances and the launching of experiments. In the next phase, it will focus on the cultural change we need to make in our administrations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know that this objective is shared. You have again indicated, Mr. Secretary of State, your intentions in this regard. You recalled the efforts you are going to make by allocating EUR 1.5 billion to the Public Action Transformation Fund, the aim of which will be, in particular, the training of public service personnel on the right to error. We must all join forces to ensure that this formal right, which we are going to adopt this evening, becomes a real right for our fellow citizens, of which we can be proud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u14	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u15	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the right to error is reflected in the strategy for the direction of public action that you are proposing in this bill. This one takes on a lexical field that has been tried for forty years: like every time, there is a question of improving the functioning of the administrations, even if you add a light varnish to "release the energies", I understand well. I don't know what this expression means yet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u16	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u17	...but I see what the spirit is. This may be another way of saying that you want to be disruptive or even more disruptive. Yet, in reality, like all successive governments, you are about to increasingly undermine the role of the State and civil servants in the development of public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u18	Of course! We think about it every morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u19	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What is your definition of right to error? I dare not imagine that your conception of the right to error is the one that may have applied to Mr. Benalla.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u20	We missed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u21	That would have been a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u22	We thought it was a little nonsense, and he was laid off for two weeks. But I can see that you've been thinking about it, that he was finally fired and that we were able to move on. I therefore warn you about the right to error: sometimes public opinion is not so favourable to the fact that this is the case with serious facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u23	You're a monomaniac!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u24	In reality, like the RGPP – general review of public policies – by Nicolas Sarkozy and the MAP – modernisation of public action – by François Hollande, your "right to error in a society of trust" will lead to the drastic elimination of thousands of jobs, to the maintenance of public officials under pressure and to a senseless number policy. But the great forgotten is the user, now regarded as a consumer of public service tasks and services of general interest. Indeed, you want to reduce the action of the State by questioning the role of civil servants. Article 1, as I recall, tends to endorse the "Public Action 2022" strategy. What is this strategy? As you know, every time I go up to this gallery to talk about this bill, I say to you: "Here, we read in the press that there were new elements! Now we know more, because the "secret report" has fled. I read in the press that it had been cut into pieces because it was too disruptive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u25	You're the one writing what's in the press!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u26	Thirty billion: That is the amount of savings you intend to make on public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u27	There's nothing like that in the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u28	This is the horse medicine you want to administer. I would remind you, however, that your budget forecasts are not up to date, as regards both the reduction of unemployment and growth. If you continue to reduce public spending, you should expect that the indicators of growth and unemployment will not improve. This will even be the opposite, since you do not encourage the revival of popular consumption or public investment, which is the basis, the b.a.-ba. But let's move on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u29	We don't believe in magic solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u30	With "Public Action 2022", it is 120,000 jobs that you want to remove – one part in the state civil service, another part in the territorial civil service – while our fellow citizens are aware of the exhaustion of public services at all levels, as attested by the citizen mobilizations to defend here a public hospital, there a post office, elsewhere still a police station – because all public services are requested. For us, the mistake comes, on the contrary, from the liberal governments, whose policies have led relentlessly to the dilapidation of public services and the ever-increasing withdrawal of the state. As we say, France no longer has the right to error, because trust in our public services and in our administrations is at stake. But you want to break the status of civil servants...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u31	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u32	...not by attacking status as such – of course, you're not stupid enough to do it;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u33	Let's see! That would be too frank!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u34	...I think you're much smarter than that – but by multiplying the contracting and precarisation of public officials. You may know, Mr Secretary of State, that the rate of contract workers in our administrations is already alarming: more than a fifth of the agents working in the administrations are contract workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u35	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u36	When you defended your labour law reforms, you yourself explained that it was necessary to limit the precariousness and use of short contracts in companies. But for the State, obviously, there is no limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u37	You still haven't talked about the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u38	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] As far as contract workers are concerned, perhaps you would like to set as an example the status which Mr Benalla was able to have? Here, another private contractor who comes to perform public service missions! Benallism is perhaps what sleeps in each of you and can be found in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u39	What's the connection?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u40	This has nothing to do with the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u41	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You increase the contracting and, finally, the precarisation of public officials. With the widespread use of contractors, these are guarantees that will no longer be offered to users of public services. When there is a public status, it changes the way it is, one can see it, in particular the way in which agents view their mission, their involvement and the meaning they find in their profession. We cannot find that meaning, in the same way, when we are under a contractual status.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u42	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u43	Who do you think convince when you say that a better service will be offered, when never so many public services have closed for reasons, in particular, of mutualization – another term in line with the "liberation of energies"? If you do not want to be transparent, you entrust to others the task of identifying, in a report, the departments that will be the target of budget cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u44	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u45	This has nothing to do with the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u46	Secretary of State, we have had several discussions about the list of departments in which you intend to reduce the number of public servants. I have even asked you a little heavily, repeatedly, by reviewing all the departments, by asking you – as I have told you of my incomprehension – how you were going to reduce the number of public servants in such a department to which you intended to entrust new missions. I shot them one by one: the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture... Finally, you told me that it was not true, that you did not want to abolish public servants' positions, that we would see, that we should first establish a finding, conduct an analysis and discuss it. Clearly, however, the findings, analysis and discussion are contained in a report that you did not want to publish. What do we find in this report? That the budget cuts will concern the Ministry of Economy and Finance – let's see! –, the ministry of ecological and solidarity transition – it's not like it's an issue! – the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation – everything is fine, of course, there are enough people in this ministry! –, the Ministry of Culture – finally, this may not be the priority, we will see later... – and the Ministry of Sports.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u47	What a logorhoea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u48	With regard to the latter, as you know, I asked the Government a question and I was given a reply from the Prime Minister, who was completely beside the plaque, knowing that I had noted a 27 per cent reduction in the subsidies allocated to the National Centre for Sport Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u49	In fact, you didn't read the text: you had to settle for a press article!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u50	There is no link between CAP 2022 and the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u51	The same report undermines the laws of public service, known as "Rolland's laws", thus completing the transformation imposed by the European Union; You speak of "public service offer", you speak of breaking the guarantees offered by civil servants to resort to an ever-increasing number of contractors. In reality, public servants have constantly reinvented themselves, always doing better with less – I know for having been subjected to this kind of regime myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u52	When are you planning to talk about the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u53	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u54	By this law, however, your government continues to target those who are the workers' ankles of the general interest. Yes, public services are the lever of social cohesion in which we must reinvest, and it is not through disengagement that we will achieve this. The user-citizen is absent from the famous report "Public Action 2022" or "CAP 2022", which has been endorsed. This report is an additional stone in the denigration of civil servants and the role of the State. The strategy is now well known. The world is changing, but the methods remain. Management has been lacking for too long. You want a "state a service of a trust society", you want to improve the advice to users, whether they are mere citizens who benefit from public service services or entrepreneurs who need security to plan their investment. But as you look at the status, we say that it is, on the contrary, the foundation necessary to ensure equality and neutrality of treatment, to combat the vicissitudes of profitability, which does not have to be in the field of public service. For us, public action must focus on its primary mission, which is to serve the population, not to generate budgetary surpluses through disengagement. The digital revolution you want is in fact a chimera, because the digital divide will make access to public services even more unequal, for lack of substantial investment and lack of recruitment of at least an equivalent number of agents. The plans for the deployment of ADSL or fibre are still, as you know, five or ten years behind schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u55	So have we not done anything about broadband? Perhaps you weren't there when we debated it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u56	From this point of view, the same thing happens with respect to the standards of accessibility for people with reduced mobility: the deadline is constantly being extended. Yet this is the central argument that you use to move on to the next step. For the deployment of digital technology, again, you rely on competition between operators. It is well known that the state is obliged to overcome difficulties, in particular by sending the historic operator, Orange, to fill the holes in the racket – this is the case in my department. Your bill says "right to error" will lead to a significant decrease in the quality of public service, both in the countryside and in the city, and thus to an even greater distrust of the state, which will be more and more absent, a fortiori for the most fragile of us. You seem to forget too easily that our fellow citizens express important needs in terms of education, health, justice, integration and so many other public services. You have referred, Mr rapporteur, to the establishment of unique reference points in the CAF. All this is already at work within the state: there are public service houses, created in accordance with the proposals made by the previous government, with unique references. When you find it difficult to benefit from such assistance or device, you go there and get a clear answer. In any case, when a hospitality officer receives you to take stock with you, there is, behind it, an administration and agents that must be organized to meet the needs, because there is, in each area of expertise, a certain technicality. In short, you can welcome the setting up of unique referents, but you only endorse in the law something that is already at work. The principle of mutability, which is one of the fundamental principles of the public service, does not date from today; You didn't make it up. Forgive me, but you didn't invent the liberation of energies in the administration. It is a corollary of the status of the public service – I say well: of its status. Ultimately, with your law, the role of the state will be re-founded in a lagging structure, running constantly after the few human and financial resources that will be given to it. With this law, you are pursuing ideological liberalism, I would even say dogmatic, which allows private structures to replace the state, to the detriment of users, now consumers of your new world. Remember that public services are the true guarantor of our social cohesion and the heritage of those who have nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u57	It's from Jaurès...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u58	Why did I talk about CAP 2022 with so much application? Because this bill for a state in the service of a trust society is the first in a series of texts that seek to implement this "CAP 2022" strategy – you know as I do and you said it yourself, Secretary of State. So I'm not wrong when I'm politically making it a central matter; It is a matter of reshaping the public service and, ultimately, its role. For us, however, it is not acceptable for the state to break down, because it is then the rule of law and the republican order that will eventually disintegrate. No, it's not possible to entrust everything to the private sector. No, we can't be in a transactional relationship all the time, as is the case in the private sector. There is a need for stability, standards, and I will not repeat to you the verse on the legal uncertainty that this text will entail for civil servants: they will be obliged to engage with a company on the interpretation of a law, which will be enforceable against them, as civil servants and as individuals. Believe me, this legal uncertainty, pointed out by all civil servants' unions, may destabilize the state rather than strengthen it in its role. I am thinking in particular of the advisory role already provided by the State and the officials. [["Ah! Jaures! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'll end with a quote. "Abundance is the fruit of good administration. » [[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Yes! While the government and the majority are advocating a shortage of public services, as a driving force for disruption, mutualisation, innovation and finally the liberation of energies, we repeat the words of Jaurès, who must resonate again in this House: "Abundance is the fruit of good administration. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u59	Jaurès was a reformer, not a revolutionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u60	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] My Rules of Procedure are based on Rule 91(5). Mr Bernalicis has just devoted a quarter of an hour to defending a rejection motion that does not deal with the text. In the course of his speech, he did not utter a single sentence in connection with the bill for a State serving a trust society. I will be brief, even if after ten days of institutional blockage, we are no longer within fifteen minutes. I'll give you some advice, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u62	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u63	Do you want to talk about the finance bill? He'll be in discussion soon. You will be able to defend a motion of rejection. Do you want to talk about the public service? You will have the right to intervene on a text that will be defended by the same Secretary of State. Here again, you will be able to defend a motion of rejection. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] But please respect those who want to debate the text under discussion, which is important for the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u64	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Since we are in Jaurès, allow me to quote it in my turn. I will say about him that "We have taken the flame, you have kept only the ashes."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u66	What a ignorance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u67	[[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Bernalicis, since I appreciate you and know that sometimes your words go beyond your thought, I will put your motion of rejection on the right to error account and will not apply penalties to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u68	Be careful: I am a multi-recidivist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u69	However, you have understood this well: the right to error does not exempt adjustments. As a remedy, I express an unfavorable opinion on the motion to reject the motion, although it is not my responsibility to give notice of the motion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The right to error also does not exempt from late penalties. These penalties, I'll let the French apply them to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u70	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u71	The Government is not in favour of the adoption of the previous rejection motion currently defended by the group La France insoumée. Since everyone's allowed a quote, I'll make it one in my turn. Seneca said: "It is easier to contain yourself than to withdraw from a quarrel. So I will not go back to some words that have been spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u72	Keep your moral lessons! From a traitor and a fake token, they're displaced!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u73	Perhaps it would have been better to speak of the text than of a report, and not to succumb to the intellectual laziness of confusing the report with recommendations, on the one hand, and the decisions of the Government, on the other. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] We're only hired by the second. What binds us is this text and what it will bring to the daily lives of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u74	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u75	Definitely, Mr. Bernalicis, we do not have the same way of looking at things, nor the same way of putting forward the motions for rejection. During your speech, you did not mention the bill under discussion once – but that is your problem, not mine. The motion to reject is defended after a lengthy process. You could have taken that into account. Complete and enriched by the important work of parliamentarians from all political groups, the new wording is the result of a compromise between senators and MPs who have invested in this bill. We must preserve their investment because it has enabled us to reach a balanced text. The right to error and the right to control are reforms expected by the French. You know better than anyone. They would not understand our hindsight on this text which they call their wishes...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u76	Do you really believe that those who are on the street to protest call the text of their vows?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u77	... because its purpose is to facilitate their daily lives. He repeats a promise of campaigning by the President of the Republic, but that is not the most important. The essential thing is that, for too long, the French have been struggling with difficulties, and that this text will solve them. We must move forward as quickly as possible on the subject, in order to restore trust between citizens and their administration. Instead of condemning, what we have observed too often, it must become an actor who advises, accompanies and dialogues. The bill also contains a component dedicated to simplification in different sectors, in order to lighten the steps taken by our citizens in all the activities they undertake. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] You will understand this: the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote on the motion to reject beforehand, in order to complete the important work begun several months ago to restore a society of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u78	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Naegelen, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u79	We will not vote on the motion for three reasons. As a matter of principle, it is here, in this House, that we must discuss the various texts, rather than waiting and delaying. For consistency, because this text, Mr Bernalicis, you did not address it at all. So we cannot agree with a statement that does not deal with a bill that we are considering for the third time. Everything has been said about him, and all the arguments, whether favourable or not, have already been developed. It makes sense at last. The text is not perfect. We'll have an opportunity to discuss it later. Nevertheless, it brings something to our fellow citizens. In particular, I welcome the progress made under Article 2. We assume that we will improve the lives of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is true, dear colleague, that you are faithful to your usual position, which is to say that we must not move, maintain the gains and not move forward. It is easier to stay back and not see that the world is changing, like mentalities, and that our administration needs to change. But that is not our choice. Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u80	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u81	We will vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u82	So she has nothing to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u83	Suffer us to intervene, Mr. Millienne! I know the last two weeks have been hard for the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u84	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u85	...but don't take your revenge, now that you're in a group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u86	We listen to you religiously!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u87	Religion has nothing to do here, but when it comes to listening, I think you have lessons to take. We find that the trust society you are talking about – it's in connection with some of the topics of recent news – is a society of distrust of everything that can be assimilated to the state: civil servants, the public service... You are actually proposing, on a constant basis, to always increase the workload of the administrations, after having recently shown all the affection you have for them, or rather all the mistrust you have against them. The problem is that the administration cannot be asked to do ever more, while abolishing 120,000 civil servants. Do you remember the Lactalis case? In the administration, there is a decrease in the number of supervisory staff. Those of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – increased from 3,600 people in 2008 to 3,000 in 2012. Emmanuel Macron and your majority still remove 45 in 2018. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] As you increasingly ask the administration, you weaken its ability to control and react to scandals that everyone agrees to denounce. The bill only worsens the situation: you continue to lose the means of the state, which you hate in everything that it represents, whether it be the police or prefectural hierarchy, or the officials, as has recently been shown by some of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is our observation. That is why, more than ever, we are calling for the rejection of the bill for a state in the service of a trustworthy society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u88	Mrs Cendra Motin, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u89	Since it is appropriate today to honor the memory of Jaurès, I too will go from my quote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u90	Don't do too much! It seems to me that he was sitting on this side of the House rather than on your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u91	"History teaches men the difficulty of the great tasks and the slowness of the achievements, but it justifies the invincible hope. For us, this text on the right to error gives us the right to keep this hope and to find in the State, which represents our collective strength to all, the help and advice that we are entitled to seek when we need to rise. With every mistake, every failure, thanks to this text, we will have the opportunity or hope to have someone on our side – not a person, let us despise. On the contrary: our collective strength, because the state is that. The officials represent us all. They're us. They are the social bond. They are what builds our lives together, and they are the ones who will carry out this noble task of enabling us to rise up, whenever we fail.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u92	Why do you want to delete 120,000? That's the problem. The rest is
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u93	Failure is not an end in itself. What the text brings again in our culture, in our society, is the possibility of knowing that an error is only a step in a path. Together, with the help of each of us, we can get up, continue and succeed. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] That is what the bill for a State is about to do in the service of a trustworthy society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u94	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u95	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u96	Not during explanations of vote, my dear colleague. The next speaker is Mr Arnaud Viala, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u97	The Republicans' position is quite far from Mrs. Motin's lyrical embard,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u99	... who would like to make the French believe that the text will revolutionize their daily lives. The disappointment of those who listen to us tonight may be immense. But we'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. To return to the motion to reject it, I must admit that we were surprised to have it tabled at this stage, because we have been dealing with the text for months. I would add that we do not find ourselves in the arguments put forward by Mr Bernalicis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] For these two reasons, we will not vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u100	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u101	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] My point of order is based on Rule 58(1) for personal reasons, since I was directly questioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u102	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u103	Perhaps you have misread the bill, colleagues, particularly clause 1. It is true that I have mainly talked about this article and the structure of the text, as well as the context in which it fits. Perhaps it bothers you. Your thing is more technocratic. You want us to believe that the text is just a technical adjustment so that people have easier access to administration. But what is the point of facilitating this access if there are 120,000 fewer civil servants, if not to subject those who will remain to more pressure? I said that the number of litigations would increase for civil servants. Does not your text provide for the liability of administrations towards third parties? I could also have talked about the fact that the cultural associations will no longer be on the register of representatives of interests. Do you want us to discuss this for a quarter of an hour?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u104	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u105	More seriously, when you question me by complaining that I did not speak of the text when I defended the motion, you misunderstand me. We have the strength of coherence for ourselves. I have defended several motions and have spoken several times in the general debate, remaining faithful to the same political axis. That we still disagree, I do not dispute it. That's normal. But when you bring me this false trial,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u106	You're the one who's trying them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u107	...I think you're the one standing next to the plate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u108	Your point of order is also a little near the plate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u109	As for the way in which you capture the memory of Jean Jaurès, I prefer not to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u110	In the general debate, Mr. Mohamed Laqhila spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u111	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, finally! We are finally at the end of a legislative process that began a few months ago. The bill proposed by the Government has been greatly enriched and is the result of different balances between our political groups. The stakes are great because the bill implements a real evolution – rather than a revolution – in the actions of the administration and in its relations with households and businesses through two founding pillars: benevolence and trust. Benevolence, on the one hand, towards the one who makes a mistake in good faith and trust, on the other hand, based on dialogue and a sense of responsibility. Trust is also expressed in our local and regional authorities, to which there are several possibilities for experimentation, as well as in our fellow citizens – households, but also companies – to whom there is a right to error and a right to control. Let us rejoice in laying the first stones of a new society, long awaited by the French, where the administration, above all, accompanies. While our fellow citizens, as all the studies show, are strongly attached to their public services, they feel, just as strongly, that they are alienated from them, which is due to a lack of understanding of the administration, a lack of dialogue and a significant delay, particularly in the digital field. It was our duty to re-establish the indispensable link between each other. Very concretely, this goes through proximity, like the experiment of the referents in the service houses to the public, as well as through the protective support of the State, by means of the right to error. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made this transformation the driving force behind our political project. It is a question of reviving the desire of our citizens to undertake and believe in our economy, and of opening them up again to success. As you know, the weight of standards in our country is an obstacle to the freedom to undertake and a hindrance to growth. A new stage in this transformation is coming, as the PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation – will be discussed next fall. The bill that we complete reduces administrative delays, puts in place rescripts and controls, terminates the suspension of the examination of a claim file when a non-essential piece of evidence is missing, removes financial penalties in the event of a formal error, and opens a remedy against any formal position. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has supported these measures – it has even been at the origin of some of them – which will allow simplified, fluidised and soothing approaches and exchanges between the public administration and the French. I also welcome the progress made in other areas, including the protection of the environment and the safety of our citizens. Allow me, on behalf of my group, to welcome the important work of our colleagues Sophie Errante, the Chairman of the Special Committee, and Stanislas Guerini, our rapporteur, who have worked to ensure the consistency of the text while always being committed to maintaining the balances found during our many exchanges. Let me also pay tribute to the representatives of the Government, Gérald Darmanin and Olivier Dussopt, for their availability and their always accurate answers to our multiple questions. We were all looking forward to this bill, because it is about the future of our society, but it is only a first step; We now look forward to the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation mechanisms that we have voted on in the text. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Democratic and Related Group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u112	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u113	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with this text, we had a high ambition: to instil a change of culture in the relations of citizens with the administration. We were starting from the evidence of excessive rigidity, the need for an administration that advises rather than a sanctioning administration. After three readings, have we come to a perfect text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u114	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u115	No, far from it. If we look in detail, the account is not quite there. We still have doubts; uncertainties remain. It would have been interesting to retain certain contributions from the Senate; Perhaps we could have reached an agreement in the CMP. Nevertheless, this text contains a number of positive provisions, such as Article 2, on the right to error, which I referred to earlier. At the same time, we must pay attention to the exceptions that have been made. The demands of farmers should also have been taken into account. We would have preferred to introduce provisions on them in the legislation, which would have been part of the common agricultural policy, rather than to hear us say, as was the case each time we mentioned the issue, that their requests would be taken into account. On the other hand, interesting experiments will be carried out, whether they involve the setting up of a single reference, a mediator in the collection of contributions, or the extension of the rescript. I would also like to refer to the future reform council, which we will probably call differently. Our group is in favour of these very interesting provisions. We have received careful attention from both the Government and the rapporteur on specific issues. I am thinking in particular of the national strategy for the direction of public action, according to which the administration will also have to be assessed on its ability to satisfy users. I am also thinking about the termination of the use of overtaxed numbers to contact administrations, or the removal of the brakes on the device "tell us once" for individuals. All these measures were proposals from our group. I now turn to the negative points in the text. First of all, article 10 gives rise to serious concern among individuals. Under this provision, a formal position of the administration will cease to have effect from the day on which the administrative authority notifies the applicant of the modification of its assessment. That provision should have been clarified. In the same way, we need to go further on the overtransposition of European standards. On the other hand, you are telling us that, thanks to the text, we are going to simplify relations with the administration and move us towards an administration that advises and reassures rather than punishes, which clarifies things for individuals. However, with regard to the controls of the USSRAF, you are re-establishing a threshold of twenty employees that, within a few months – and this is known to the public – the PACTE bill should be abolished. I have already raised the question of the merits of this measure. I am also thinking of the Senate's contributions, which constituted a casus belli at the CMP when they were reasonable, whether it was the right to regularize local authorities in case of error, or the temporary exemption of a tax fine in favour of small businesses when the levy was introduced at source. The latter is anxiogenic for entrepreneurs and the accounting and administrative services of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have to set up it by next year. It would have been interesting to include those provisions in the present text. Our group therefore believes that this text is only a first step in establishing new relations with the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u116	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will vote in favour of it, hoping that our remarks will be taken into account and that, when we set up the reform council, we can go further, look more closely at certain details, for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u118	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u119	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the special committee – dear Sophie Errante – and the rapporteur – dear Stanislas Guerini, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the bill for a state in the service of a society of trust. The term "trust society" is not new. Some, more than twenty years ago, used it to call for an expanding society, a society of solidarity, common projects, openness, exchanges and communication. Does this text correspond to this ambition? No, I certainly don't. What law, moreover, could be sufficient to establish or restore confidence? Nevertheless, the text sets out a path, in particular through the right to error, which must constitute the normal mark of indulgence of the administration in view of the complexity and the number of administrative burdens on individuals or undertakings. It is a vision of the "benevolent and open" state, as the explanatory statement suggests. The objective of this text is twofold, as you know. On the one hand, it is a question of restoring trust between users and their administrations. Many of them did not wait for this text to establish a kind dialogue. On the other hand, the Members we are involved in every day in denouncing rigidities and promoting decisions that are fairer than those that would result from the strict application of a regulation. But we all know that this exercise has its limits. The text we are going to vote on will facilitate this pragmatic approach based on good faith, which will apply to everyone. On the other hand, it is a matter of simplifying administrative procedures – the rapporteur has given us a number of examples – on the basis of a general principle: to empower actors under a declaratory regime rather than forcing them to apply for prior authorisation. We say yes to this approach, which places the administration in the need to respond within a certain period of time, as long as it wants to act. On the other hand, in order for this to work satisfactorily, it is necessary for the actors to have an interest in doing well, to live up to the trust given to them. The strengthening of sanctions and the lack of indulgence in the event of recidivism contribute to this objective. On the other hand, simplification in environmental matters must not be at the expense of a level of demand that the world expects from us. I will make three remarks. First, I would like to express our satisfaction with the withdrawal of Article 30, which, in our view, posed a risk to land policy by questioning the proper control of agricultural structures. Secondly – as has already been said – we regret that, despite our many attempts, we have only been able to get the mistakes made when drawing up the CAP dossiers – the common agricultural policy – to have their place in the text. The complexity, on the one hand, and good faith, on the other, are attested to in this area, but we have not been able to correct provisions with serious financial consequences for farmers. It was upstream of European regulation that we called for the expression of a right to error. We must not give up on this matter. In addition, it is unfortunately not uncommon for administrative control on a farm to become rough and to end dramatically. It is necessary to take into account very fragile particular situations, by setting up a mediation mechanism – which is likely to fall within the regulatory field – while at the same time promoting a right to error for CAP cases. Thirdly, as you said, we must ensure effective control of the implementation of the text as soon as it is promulgated, as we have done with regard to the implementation of the law for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities. It is, in a way, a matter of establishing a follow-up mission, which will allow us to assess the application of the text over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u121	We will appreciate how the right to error, which introduces a change of mindset, settles in our administrative lives, whether we are an individual or an actor in the economic, cultural or social world. Moreover, the ordinances – which, as you know, we still find too many – also oblige us, it seems to me, to act in this direction. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] This text places the benevolence of the administration at the heart of relations with citizens. The expected results should be linked to the quality of public servants, those professionals who make the duty of reserve, impartiality, probity, the primary qualities of their actions. Let us be aware of these demands, to which we all attach, in future reforms. At the end of the long journey that has taken us so far, the New Left Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u122	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u123	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk to you tonight about Alexandre Benalla, either Gérard Collomb or Olivier Dussopt, or even Emmanuel Macron. I'll talk to you about the right to make a mistake. In this text, you add to the work of the administration, while at the same time you cut off the food. You are pushing an open door by pretending to introduce a new principle, that of the first mistake in good faith, which does not give rise to sanctions. However, each taxpayer already knows him if he has dealt, in good faith, with the administration. Everyone knows that, when writing to the administration for tax problems, this right to error can be enjoyed, which may result in penalty remissions. Your position is very contradictory, because you say that you are inventing a right to effective control, which would allow the administration to ask the administration to position itself on a matter concerning it, but if this principle may seem interesting, you impose on the State, at the same time, a rationing of its resources. By weakening the state, you create an incentive for malicious taxpayers to abstract themselves from the rules, which are not just constraints and which guarantee freedoms. You are in charge of the administration – inversion of the burden of proof, accompaniment and advice – and all the unions are observing it and, at the same time, as my colleague Ugo Bernalicis said, you are abolishing 120,000 posts of civil servants. I don't see how you can always demand more people to whom you remove human and material means. In any case, this is in line with your vision of the state. The most serious thing in this text is that you transform the control and sanction administration into an accompanying and advisory administration, which will benefit large companies and wealthy taxpayers far more than others. The reason is simple: those who have the means to have legal advice will be greatly favoured and will be able to make use of the right to effective control and to the multiplication of the tax rescripts that you put in place. This is the second unequal aspect of this law. We are told that the law against tax evasion can counterbalance all this. Quite frankly, we are far from it, and we will talk about it again in September, but the text on tax fraud is far from meeting this movement that is undermining the state's revenue. In addition, in the text on tax fraud, you introduce the notion of "advocate-coupling" for tax fraud. Ending your actions, your actions thus give big companies the error in good faith, the legal advice of the administration and, if they still decide to fraud, the "advocate-guilty", which will avoid them a trial. We will have this debate again from 15 September. In conclusion, we will vote against the bill. You are giving more work to an administration whose means you otherwise suppress. You've drafted a bill that increases laxity towards big fraudsters. You put the administration at the service of big companies and the wealthiest, focusing, in particular, on accompaniment and advice rather than control and sanction – from this point of view, you are faithful to your very neoliberal vision, in which the state accompanies the market, while we know that if it is not regulated, it is capable of the worst mistakes and the worst economic disasters. You are consistent with the project you have been carrying out for a year,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u124	It's not bad already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...that you are ever more tender, lax and generous with the richest, and ever harder with the vast majority of our fellow citizens. Contrary to what I heard earlier about the verdict of the ballot box, more and more of our fellow citizens are becoming aware of what you are doing and will punish you quite quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u126	It's a pious wish!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u127	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u128	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the bill for a State serving a trustworthy society on a final reading. We want confidence – the key word of the text – to be reborn between users and the administration, but also, Mr. Secretary of State, between public officials and their own administration – we will have the opportunity to return in the coming months. I would like to take advantage of my speech in the general discussion to talk about the chronology of the drafting of this text and the method we have followed, with the chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteur and all my colleagues. Upstream, there was more than a year of work, led with some of you. It was a genuine legislative co-construction with the Government and State Councillor Thierry Tuot. This work has fed into the original bill and the amendments that have improved it over the course of the various readings. We have also worked in our constituencies since last summer, which is extremely important. We met with the regional branches of companies, competition, consumption, labour and employment – DIRECCTE –, the municipal treasury and the departmental branches of public finance – DDFIP – in order to better understand the relationship between users and these administrations, and try to improve it. All this work has fed into the discussion of the text, which has been very long – as noted – and has enabled significant progress, which has been cited. I am thinking in particular of the right to error, provided for in Article 2, the possibility for the labour inspectorate to issue a warning before the sanction so that the company understands what it must do to bring itself into conformity, the single reference to allow – finally – the individual to have a single door of entry for all public services, and the extension of the rescript beyond the scope of taxation. During the examination of the text, we also had the will, very early on, to adopt a trans-partisan text. The figures are as follows: 405 Members voted in favour of the text at first reading and 30% of the amendments adopted at first reading were by all the oppositions – in this respect, I will mention the work carried out with the Republicans, in Article 19, on the departmental and regional chambers of agriculture,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u129	It then deteriorated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u130	... or the one led with the New Left group on article 25. Important amendments proposed by our majority have also been adopted, in particular the one defended by Gaël Le Bohec on the end of the overtaxation of calls to public services and that of my colleague Véronique Hammerer, who devoted the rest periods for carers in Article 29. As you said, Secretary of State, not everything ends today with the vote on the text. I'd even say, as for me, it all starts tonight. We will set up, as we promised, the reform council. To echo a question to the Government that I asked Gérald Darmanin exactly six months ago, this council will certainly follow the implementing decrees, the ratifications of orders and the evaluations of experiments, but it will also have to serve our work of evaluating public policies, which – as I recall systematically – we must encourage in Parliament, all of us here, I believe, a stronger Parliament. The Council will have to feed into the work of the "Public Action 2022" project, Mr Secretary of State, in the Public Action Transformation Fund, for which I am Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, and which you have rightly mentioned. I would also like to appeal to all the special rapporteurs and rapporteurs for budget opinions: the work done by the reform council will have to be fed on. Indeed, these experiments will concern administrations, therefore budgetary missions, and therefore also special rapporteurs and opinion rapporteurs. We will have to deploy all these gateways in Parliament, in order to carry out, together, more effective evaluation work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u132	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have done a long job, one year for some and six months for most of us. He often went under the media radar, but he proved to be terribly effective. When we manage to work in a trans-partisan way, it is not perfect – I hear what Christophe Naegelen and our colleagues in the Republican Group say – but we were able to agree on a number of points. This contrasts with what we heard this afternoon. This is the real parliamentary work, which concerns the French and allows us to vote for real progress for all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u133	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u134	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u135	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore reached the end of this work, which lasted several months and on which everyone – you, the Government and the majority, we, the opposition, and especially the French – had great hopes. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On arrival, it must be noted that the account is not there. It is not in the form: you are speaking of trust, you have failed to testify to the parliamentarians who have mobilized with you in order to make the text a real step forward for the French. The atmosphere in the Special Committee, which was rather placed under constructive auspices at the beginning of its work, has deteriorated considerably as we move through the stages of the examination of the text. I repeat to you, the Group of the Republicans, which I represent here and whose members are numerous here this evening, was firmly committed to supporting the bill and to voting on its provisions, as we know how much the French call for more fluidity in their daily relations with the various strata of the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u137	It is in this capacity that we have made every effort to allow you to accept our common sense proposals. First, we wanted to align the administrative response time with the time required by the administration to provide the elements of a file to the administration. Then we defended beak and nails the famous rule that silence is acceptable, which you did not want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u138	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u139	Furthermore, we have defended the right to error in the CAP dossiers, previously referred to by Mr Naegelen, as well as the easing of a number of outdated and unnecessarily complex procedures which today make France the champion of the world of administrative complexity and which, as a result, create mistrust in the relations between many of our fellow citizens and the administrations – but also, it must be said, the fatigue of a number of agents, forced to apply these provisions. You did not want these proposals either.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u140	Very important speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u141	Finally, we wanted you to take advantage of the opportunity offered by this text to correct the perverse effects of reforms carried out in haste by your predecessors, who did not measure the impact on the inhabitants of the territories furthest from the metropolises, which we know very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u142	Very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u143	I am thinking, for example, of the abolition of the capacity of town halls, everywhere in France, to issue identity cards, on the grounds that it is necessary to dematerialize and rationalise, which in fact creates a two-speed administration: one for the French in densely populated areas, the other for the rest of our fellow citizens, who have no right, except to travel long distances, whether or not they have the necessary means of locomotion and whether or not they have a connection to the Internet. You did not want this proposal and preferred to ignore the distress calls of that France. Therefore, we understood that, on the form, this law would be small in scope,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u145	... without ambition, too diffuse for anyone to perceive the benefits, and too imprecise to bring any substantial improvement to the French. Despite this, we have continued our collaborative work with our fellow senators, who, in turn, have done everything possible to enrich the text, but whose contributions you have swept away almost all, by irremediably blocking the Joint Joint Committee, while they have made every effort to achieve it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u146	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u147	... and returning point by point, in new reading, to the text produced by the National Assembly. You have taken away all hope of finding common ground between us by refusing our proposals on two points, which you knew from the beginning were hard points for us. The first, Mr. Saint-Martin, concerns the regionalization of the chambers of agriculture, which you improperly presented as an experiment and which, moreover, had nothing to do with this text, as we were examining the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, called "EGALIM". You have reintroduced this provision at the last moment for the entire territory, while in many regions no one is asking for it. This will erase the proximity relationship between farmers and these establishments, which provide them with advice and, above all, the representativeness of the diversity of agriculture in France. I think you'll regret it. The second relates to wind energy, of which it is not understood what it comes to do in this text either. Your attempt to camouflage the relaxation of measurements on the Earth's wind by a falsely racoling title on the sea's wind exploded in full flight during the first reading. Nevertheless, we have not been able to push you back. [[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So you will understand that, ladies and gentlemen, I have reluctantly said this. It is reluctantly the members of the Republican Group will vote against the text. It is reluctantly that we find that you have chosen, on potentially consensual subjects, to neglect – and finally to crush – the expression of our nuances. It is also reluctant to see you adopt a text that will in fact serve nothing for the French. Finally, I am reluctant to tell you this evening not to deceive you: your numerical superiority in the Chamber allows you everything, including all the misappropriations, but your assessment will not be measured by the number of texts adopted by forceps.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u148	Indeed: it will be the results that will count!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It will be assessed on the basis of the satisfaction of the French. You constantly make the mistake of thinking, a little too quickly, that being the most numerous here means that you are right about everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u150	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u151	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u152	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have gathered here for a final reading of a bill that was intended to be consensual with regard to its stated objectives. Indeed, who would not want to improve the relations of our fellow citizens with the administration, encourage dialogue between them and ensure that it advises and accompanies more than it punishes? However, improving the relations of our fellow citizens with the administration did not, in our view, require the writing of legislation, not even of this bill, which we consider to be a catch-all piece of legislation. In reality, the ambition of your reform is to change the framework of public action in the broad sense, to the detriment of the powers of control and sanction guaranteeing respect for the law. Moreover, the provisions on labour law are indicative of your state of mind. Indeed, you propose to reduce the penalties that employers incur in the event of a serious breach of their obligations with consequences for the health of employees. On this subject, we will shortly be debating a bill tabled by our colleague Pierre Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u153	That's right! Thank you for reminding him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u154	Penalties for negligent employers judged in good faith will not be replaced by a mere reminder of the law. Your text is perclusive of such measures: companies will be able to make the positions, even erroneous, of the administration counter-oppositions; building managers will be able to compromise with construction standards; the promoters of large-scale projects will be able to provide more protection against litigation by environmental protection associations and citizens. In fact, with this text, one thing concerns you: to satisfy the expectations of pressure groups and interest groups wishing to benefit from the anointing of the law in order to prolong their action, to gain competitiveness – as you say – and to reduce costs. Respect for the rules and equality of citizens before the law are relegated to secondary concerns. That's the new concept you're working on. Although the Council of State and the Economic, Social and Environmental Council have made it possible to curb your liberal ardour, we remain opposed to this text, which also seriously undermines the powers of control and sanction of public administration. Indeed, you do this, in small touches, under the cover of various experiments – of which you are fond – to reduce the normative value of the law, by allowing the administration to compromise on a case-by-case basis on the application of the rules that are necessary to all. The right to error and the right to control, which you place without any caution as a general principle, can serve as an alibi for fraudulent behaviour and guilty negligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u155	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u156	In order to impose sanctions, the administration will first have to prove the offender's bad faith, thus conducting an investigation and gathering evidence. However, we know that the administration, which has been subject to severe austerity policies for years, no longer has the material and human resources to carry out such a work. It will have them tomorrow all the less as you entrust it with the task of carrying out new advisory and accompanying missions, while continuing the policy of downsizing – 20,000 jobs only in the tax administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u157	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u158	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u159	So you send companies a clear signal: they can more easily violate certain rules they have to comply with without the risk of sanction. The aim is to meet the expectations of the industrial and financial groups by relaxing compliance with minimum social, economic, administrative or accounting standards. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] What, then, is this State at the service of a society of trust which forsakes the means to pursue the great crime, whether financial, economic or social? At the end of this debate, ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that we will reiterate our vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u160	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u161	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u162	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. I call Mr Stanislas Guerini to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u163	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u164	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u165	Through this amendment to the Additional Article after Article 28, we propose to extend the eligibility conditions to the status of a large institution. I recall that the Court of Auditors issued an explicit opinion on this subject in March 2018. It recommended that "enlarge the possibility of using the formula of the large institution to house groups of institutions (universities and schools) whose nature and quality warrant it." [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Such a provision would meet the expectations of our higher education institutions. The aim is to allow the establishment of large establishments without the use of the experiments provided for in Article 28 or at the end of the experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u167	Unfavorable opinion. In the Senate, the rapporteur of the text initially opposed the amendment, before relying on the wisdom of the High Assembly. On the substance, it presents several difficulties. First, it would give definitive status to experimental establishments. The proposed provisions would therefore be rather difficult to implement. In addition, the eligibility criteria for large establishment status are twofold. These are either institutions with specific characteristics related to their history, such as the Collège de France, or institutions whose offer of training does not involve the awarding of diplomas. The establishments resulting from the experiments provided for in Article 28 of this text shall not satisfy any of these conditions. For these reasons, the permanent status of a large establishment does not correspond to their expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u169	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u170	I call Mr Stanislas Guerini to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u171	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u172	I put the bill as a whole to the vote in the National Assembly on a new reading, as amended by the amendments that have just been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u173	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u174	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u175	The next item is the final reading of the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u176	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u177	Madam President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting for the last time to discuss the transfer of water and sanitation to inter-communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u178	For the last time? I don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u179	I would like to thank all parliamentarians, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, who, through their interventions and work, have been involved in the drafting of this text. I thank you, Madam rapporteur, for the energy and pugnacity that you have deployed to convince and find ways and means to succeed. This text is necessary and expected. The compromise we have collectively built and defended makes it possible to find solutions to today's difficulties and to anticipate the modernisation of our networks of tomorrow. We thus demonstrate the effectiveness of a shared work between Parliament and the Government. All the provisions proposed by the majority groups to the National Assembly were the result of a long process of consultation with all elected associations and professionals in the sector. It enabled the Government to measure the diversity of situations on the ground, which required differentiated solutions. We have therefore reconciled the necessary transfer of water and sanitation skills to intercommunities with the legitimate adaptation to certain local realities. This is the meaning of the mission entrusted to me by the Prime Minister and which led to the proposal for a clause to safeguard communal freedoms. These provisions constitute a balanced position, adopted by the National Conference of Territories held on 14 December in Cahors, which constituted the intangible line that the Government held during the consideration of the text. However, as you know, since the beginning of the legislative process, I have been animated by a spirit of compromise. The parliamentary debate has raised new issues, and I have committed myself in both assemblies to providing answers during the parliamentary shuttle. This is what I did in the National Assembly on two subjects: storm water management and the modalities of the blocking minority for municipalities that have already transferred non-collective sanitation to their community of communes. That is also what I have done in the Senate with respect to the multi-service boards that you have brought to my attention here. The Government's amendment, which was adopted in the Senate and which we will be considering earlier, seeks, on the one hand, to reconcile the objectives of pooling resources and personnel within the same structure responsible for the management of public water, sanitation and wastewater services, and, on the other hand, to individualize the costs of each of these services in separate supplementary budgets. As you know, the challenges ahead are major. Global warming, the evolution of our farming patterns, but also of our consumption and production system make it urgent to modernize our networks. The outdated nature of some of our facilities, the alarming leakage rates, the low quality of water and the unequal access to our territory are major obstacles that we have to remove. To do so, I have seen that local elected officials need to know more about the state of the networks and to find the appropriate tools for each of the territories. It is also the ambition of the water assemblages, which have opened up and which will continue in the fall. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, after the hours of debate with the associations of elected representatives, and then in each of the two chambers of Parliament, it is time, I believe, to vote on this much-awaited text from the local elected representatives and from our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u180	But can all this be done without money?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u181	Mrs Emilie Chalas, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u182	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, for more than twenty years, a dynamic of transfer of powers from municipalities to inter-communities has begun. It is legitimate and necessary: it responds to technical and budgetary challenges that can no longer be ignored. Improving the quality and efficiency of our public services is not just a challenge of today; It's also a commitment for tomorrow. The transfer of water and sanitation is in line with this, as provided for in the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the "NOTRE Act", of 7 August 2015, i.e. almost three years ago to the day. Over the past three years, a shift in the transfer of these skills has rapidly developed, particularly with regard to agglomeration communities, half of which already have water competence and almost two thirds have sanitation competence. However, concerns were also expressed. The compulsory transfer of these powers on 1 January 2020 may have seemed insurmountable to some rural communes, faced with too close a deadline which did not allow them to prepare for these transfers under optimal conditions. We have heard these difficulties; We understood them. It is also with a view to resolving them that a trans-party working group, convened last autumn on the initiative of the Minister, has managed to draw up a compromise text on which is based the bill that we are considering this evening for final reading. I will not go into detail on the provisions contained in the bill; We have had the opportunity to debate it extensively since January, during the first reading, and then at the next reading just a month ago. I would just like to recall that the text provides the necessary flexibility to meet the expectations of local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u183	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u184	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It introduces an easily usable blocking minority mechanism, in order to give the municipalities members of communes wishing to postpone the transfer of water and sanitation skills between 2020 and 1 January 2026. The draft law also relaxes the rules for the representation-substitution of municipalities, in order to simplify and clarify the situation of territorial cooperation structures bringing together several communities of communes and agglomeration within them. Finally, it secures the law in force by enshrining the management of stormwaters as a compulsory competence for intercommunities. In a new reading, we have brought two additional flexibilities. The first is the extension of the blocking minority mechanism, now applicable to partial transfers of competence for sanitation. The second exempts communities of communes from the compulsory management of stormwater, because of the peculiarities of these territories. In addition, following the Government's proposal made during the Senate's re-reading and legitimate reflection, we will support an amendment to make possible the creation of a single multi-service governance at the inter-municipal level. This is a concrete step forward, motivated by a desire to simplify and pool resources, while respecting the fundamental principle of budgetary individualisation of water and sanitation services. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached a balance here, thanks to the parliamentary exchanges over the last six months. Unfortunately, our honourable senators have again altered this balance, going so far as to repeal the provisions of the NOTRe Act by which the transfer of water and sanitation skills at the inter-municipal level becomes mandatory. Far from respecting the spirit of compromise that drives this text, the Senate has, unfortunately, locked itself in a position that I regret, as much as the stakes we face go beyond the usual political divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u185	The Senate has simply shown ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u186	The final reading of this bill will close almost a year of intense work, at the end of which the text that we are about to vote may have emerged. It is in compliance with the NOTRE law, while being adapted to the realities of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u187	Thanks to the proposals of the Republican Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u188	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] By refusing both the status quo and an unlikely reversal, this bill remains true to our ambition, which is more than ever to strengthen the efficiency and sustainability of our community-based public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u189	In the general debate, Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u190	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been several months – almost a year if we take into account the bill that was defended by our colleagues in the Republicans Group – that we are discussing the harmful consequences of the NOTRe law with regard to the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. This debate is necessary: it is a matter of responding to the concerns of local communities and elected representatives in the face of this profound reorganization of local water and sanitation management, which, by 2020, provides for the transformation of these competences – previously optional for communities of communes and agglomeration communities – into compulsory competence. Of course, there was a need to streamline the 35,000 water and sanitation services that are managed by more than 24,000 communities. Nevertheless, forcing communities to make such transfers at such a pace, without support, was totally unreasonable. Evidence of this is that only half of the municipalities have already transferred, for many under the pressure of the law, and that others desperately expect the executive and the legislator to revert to this obligation which, in essence, runs counter to the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u191	Yes, that's the scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u192	Such an obligation could of course be agreed if it was of unquestionable local and general interest. The pooling of these skills can, of course, lead to economies of scale, increase investment capacity and harmonize prices from the bottom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u193	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u194	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] But it is not automatic: everything depends on the territory and its geographical, topographic and demographic specificities. A device that, for example, works for a large city in a dense and urban area will not necessarily work for a village in a rural or mountainous area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u195	That is the very principle of subsidiarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u196	Many of us, all political sensitivities combined, fear – and this certainly demonstrates common sense – that the mandatory nature of the transfer of skills will not only lead to major difficulties for thousands of small municipalities in terms of human and logistical resources, investment and work, but also additional costs and thus price harmonisation from the top, to the detriment of our fellow citizens. The extension of the deadline to 2026 and the latest changes are a back-up solution, but we remain deeply convinced that it is necessary to restore the optional nature of the transfer of these powers and to give local elected officials freedom of choice. The election gives them the legitimacy they need, and they are the only ones who know the ground well enough to determine the best option to choose. I believe, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that even the majority have been made aware of these issues, since we have all been asked by local elected representatives in our electoral districts. Since the issue and the necessary solutions appear to be consensual, responsibility required us to go beyond political postures and transcend divisions. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened. You began by sweeping the bill that had been defended by our colleague Fabrice Brun and the group Les Républicains in October 2017. You then set up a trans-party working group to draft a consensus text – I was part of it – but you could not help but rid yourself of all those who had participated but did not bear the label of your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u197	It was a smokescreen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u198	Finally, during the various readings of this bill, you rejected all the contributions of our honourable senators as a whole, a priori and as a matter of principle, yet those most able to respond to the concerns of the territories and local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u199	That's right, they didn't take any account of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u200	Even the Joint Joint Committee, which presented itself as a conciliation body, was doomed to failure from the outset, since the parties present had remained open to their positions, without seeking to truly understand each other's views. This meeting was only a mockery of dialogue, with the majority refusing the debate. What a waste of time and energy! Nearly a year of parliamentary debates to reach this point, a text which, for fear of having to take on the demands of the opposition, has distorted, misappropriated them, to the point that they will satisfy no one or almost anyone. The IDU, Act and Independent Group therefore regrets not only the method employed by the Government and the majority, which has led to a consensual issue becoming a confrontational masquerade, but above all the lack of a complete response, up to the situation. Therefore, in view of all these elements, our group will not support the adoption of this text and calls for a reorganization of local water and sanitation management, which is genuinely respectful of the territories and their specificities, the communities and their administration,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u201	Their free administration!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u202	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on many benches of the LR group]] ... as elected officials and their legitimacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u203	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u204	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the rejection of the Senate bill tabled by the Republican Group in committee last October, after the first and new readings of this bill in the National Assembly and the Senate, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, we have again been mobilised on the transfer of water and sanitation skills to intercommunalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u205	It's beautiful, the parliamentary shuttle!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u206	Although it attracts neither the general public nor the media and does not unleash passions more than crowds, this subject is essential. Indeed, it concerns a daily and permanent concern of the inhabitants and elected representatives of our rural and mountain territories. It is also essential because it questions our relationship to the common norm, our right to experiment and our ability, in a diverse Republic, to take into account local realities. In this third statement, allow me to defend, over and over again, the ambitious and constructive vision that I believe in. Let me reiterate the need for our Assembly to draw on the expertise of local elected officials, their knowledge of the geographical realities of their territory of life and to trust their sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u207	It is indeed a matter of trust!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u208	[["Congratulation! »on the benches of the LR group]] In this spirit, we would have liked to see the optionality of acquiring competence in the field of water and sanitation. The solution proposed in this bill is at the halfway point between the compulsory transfer for all municipalities on 1 January 2020, enshrined in the NOTRE law, and the motion adopted by the steering committee of the National Association of Mountain Elected Persons, which I chair, in favour of maintaining the optional nature of the jurisdiction. The blocking minority, which is the chosen solution, continues to worry local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u209	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u210	Indeed, what will happen when certain rural or mountain communes, a minority in an urban or plain intercommunality, are not in sufficient number to reach this minority? The transfer will be carried out by force, and implementation problems will begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u211	Another recentralization by the prefect's hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u212	In a spirit of mutual trust, we would also have liked the date of 1 January 2026 to disappear from the text. Of course, we gain some time – precious time – here, but isn't it to postpone the difficult consequences of a decision taken today to tomorrow? The minister praised this blocking minority in the Palais du Luxembourg as a " clause to safeguard communal freedoms". No one can imagine that, in your mind, the safeguarding of these fundamental freedoms is not thought beyond this deadline. Finally, we would have liked all intercommunalities, including agglomeration communities, to be affected by the possibility of derogation and opposition to the transfer of water and sanitation competence. Finally, what about intercommunalities in which only some municipalities have de facto transferred water and sanitation competence through fusion? Will they have the possibility of derogation? On this subject, I would like to receive a specific reply from you, Madam Minister, and the rapporteur. However, we are aware of the realities and relations of political forces that exist. We are also sensitive, as we must say, to the compromises and concessions that you have been willing to make, Madam Minister. Be aware that we are measuring the progress we have made and the battles we have won since our first discussions. We have talked about the blocking minority, but let me also welcome the recent progress that has been discussed with our honourable senators on the issue of sequestration of competencies. In particular, I welcome the wisdom of the amendment which introduces the principle of secability, allowing communes that are members of communities of communes or agglomeration communities to transfer or not competence in the management of urban rainwater to intercommunality. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that, without fully satisfying us with the wording proposed today, we consider it a minimum compromise. You will allow me to conclude my remarks with a collective question about our ability to adapt the norm to the diversity of our local realities. We know the weight of our jacobine design and the tenacity of the centralizing and unifying reflexes that we collectively retain. Without calling into question the unity and uniqueness of our republican ideal, I would like to invite us once again to take into account local specificities and to encourage the right to experiment. In our assembly, who could imagine that a mountain village could be treated in the same way as coastal ports, a metropolis or a peri-urban town? I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to use the right to adaptation, which is recognised in particular by the mountain law, and to apply the right to the difference given by the law. Let us uphold the principle of adapting public policies to the specificities of the territories. We have the tools to do this: let us affirm a common policy. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] At the congress of the mayors of France, the President of the Republic recalled his vision and his willingness to give "an unprecedented capacity for differentiation, an ability to adapt rules to the territories". Shit! Let us make the slogan a doctrine and a speech, an action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u214	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u215	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, we are here at the end of the parliamentary shuttle of this bill by the Republic Group on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to the communities of communes. As at the first reading, we wish first of all to express our disapproval of the particularly dubious methods of the majority which, after rejecting last October the draft law of our colleagues, The Republicans on an identical subject, took it back to propose a much less ambitious version. Like that, the old world and its political maneuvers still have beautiful remains with this majority. This gesture, however inelegant it may be, has at least the merit of confirming, on the one hand, that the transfer of water and sanitation powers provided for by the NOTRe Act poses certain problems and, on the other hand, that the majority has sinned out of pride, opportunism and lack of seriousness by refusing to amend the original bill of the Republicans Group, thus wasting valuable time both for parliamentarians and for local elected officials, who warned about the harmful nature of the measure. On the substance, we deplore the timid nature of this text, which only relaxes the law by delaying the period of compulsory transfer only for the communes that are members of a community of communes that have not yet carried out this transfer, but obtained a blocking minority allowing the transfer to be postponed to 2026. Here again, we find the mark of your majority: forced to go to the arguments of the opposition, you find the way to do as little as possible, by refusing all other contributions, to end up producing a well-repressed text, on a subject which is nevertheless major. Our position is in line with our opposition to the NOTRE Act of 2015. The latter constituted a major historical break in terms of the place of the commune in the French territorial organization and that of the public water service. It is, under the guise of greater autonomy and adaptability, a process that opens up essential public services to the interests of large companies. However, consideration of the issue of the appropriate level to exercise jurisdiction over water and sanitation should not be limited to defending territorial privileges or an electoral law. The challenge is quite different: it is the preservation of water as a common good and the organization by the public authorities of uniform and sufficient access to this resource throughout the country. Today, this access is not guaranteed in the short or medium term. In the short term, the question of water insecurity arises. There is no uninterrupted access to drinking water, neither for households nor for individuals living in France. In the medium term, and this is only one way to speak so urgently about ecology, the necessary measures are not taken either. The case of Guadeloupe shows the impact of water management regulation on the quality of water distribution in households. The situation has long been deplorable: the Guadeloupeans and Guadeloupeans are subjected to a random distribution of water, with frequent cuts and, in some places, brackish water coming out of the tap. In June 2015, the Regional Economic, Social and Environmental Council noted in its report that 85 per cent of subscribers were served by a private operator and that only 60 per cent of treated water production was used by users and users because of the deplorable quality of the networks. Until 2013, water and sanitation management was managed by seven groups and five municipalities. Since August 2016, it has only been provided by public inter-municipal cooperation institutions – EPCI. This change is the result of the successive entry into force of the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the "MAPTAM law", and the NOTRE law. The entry into force of these laws has thus required a complex reorganisation of water management, without, however, solving the serious deficiencies that existed. The Government has announced a €71 million plan to renovate the networks. If this plan is necessary, it does not address the glaring structural problems, linked to the current legal framework, which makes them possible. The State is no longer a substitute for local authorities, but rather for private actors, who benefit from long-term contracts, on a sector of common necessity. These actors are disengaging themselves from the regular and necessary renovation of the networks. Why not better control, if not prohibit the management of water and sanitation when it is not done in direct control? In this way, we have tabled a bill to constitutionalize the right to water, which would have allowed for better management supervision. With regard to sanitation, again in Guadeloupe, traces of chlordecone, this insecticide at the heart of a health and ecological scandal, have been detected in tap water. Water management cannot be separated from the ecological issue. The products used, whether in upstream soils, or used to clean up downstream water, as well as the losses caused by poor network quality, affect the quality of water available for consumption, not only for us but for the whole of life. In this way, we need to rethink our public management of water as quickly as possible in socio-ecological terms. This bill, which could have been an opportunity to open this great debate, misses the essential. By rejecting all of our amendments, you have chosen not to have this debate. In this, as usual, private interests are given priority, the ecosystem and the general interest will wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u216	Very bad habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u217	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will continue to advocate another vision of water management and sanitation, for the common good rather than individual and private interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u218	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u219	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we will take a decision on the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes. The current provision is the result of a dogmatic vision of the NOTRE law, which consists of concentrating powers, without considering the appropriateness or feasibility of such a transfer. It dispossesses local elected officials of all choice, while they have deployed so many solutions adapted to the geography and morphology of the territories. It is when they have deemed it necessary, in all conscience and in all intelligence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u220	Free!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u221	...that they themselves have decided to regroup themselves into inter-communal trade unions. This has never been a problem in our communes. Mayor for twenty-seven years, I myself decided to join an intermunicipal water supply union, as this was the best solution. Other municipalities did not make this choice because they could manage their water supply without having to regroup. It was therefore a question of going back to the compulsory transfer, which had been adopted under conditions which should have led you to question this inappropriate choice completely. Articles 64 and 66 of the NOTRE Act, which organize the transfer of powers on 1 January 2020, should be reviewed, rather than simply extending the deadline to 2026. The aim was to restore decision-making power and accountability to local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u222	In the name of the free administration of local and regional authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u223	The ideology of stripping the municipalities of their powers to attribute them to the intercommunalities is confronted with a concrete reality: the scope of the new EPCIs does not necessarily correspond to that of the trade unions or management authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u224	This is rarely the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u225	The river basins must be taken into account!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u226	Moreover, these EPCIs do not always have the necessary financial resources. They are already facing multiple difficulties, in particular in managing the various budgets, without the need to add this compulsory transfer carried out in an authoritarian way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u227	Yes! This is stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u228	The appointment is missed. However, the text has given rise to many statements, the deliberations of communes, reactions from associations – I am thinking in particular of the Association of Rural Mayors of France. Almost everything has been said, either during the parliamentary debate or on the ground. Each time the demonstration was made that the transfer was not a good thing. However, you did not come back to this decision taken by the previous majority, a decision that was very disastrous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u229	It is the NOTRE law that is disastrous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u230	However, the technical debate highlighted the difficulties that would arise from the transfer obligation. Despite this, the Government and the parliamentary majority have remained deaf to common-sense remarks. We therefore understand the political dimension of the choice that the majority is about to make: either you confirm the impasse of the NOTRE law, and you question the free administration of local authorities by maintaining the deadline of 2026, or we are going back to work to draft a new law – it would be much simpler. We could agree on a provision providing for an optional, not mandatory, transfer, even if the deadline is extended to 2026 and the possibility for a minority to oppose the transfer is maintained until 2026. Of course, we have noted some progress: the blocking minority made up of at least 25% of the municipalities representing at least 20% of the total population of the community; Sequestration of water and sanitation skills for commune communities, with the possibility of separating storm water sanitation; the maintenance of the inter-communal unions until 2026 if their perimeter overlaps two communities of communes and not three. Madam Minister, you have made a commitment, I hope you will hold it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u231	I always keep my commitments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u232	I do not know if you know that, ladies and gentlemen, but from 1 January 2020, the vice-presidents of the inter-municipal trade unions will no longer be able to receive compensation – from 2020 to 2026, their activities, which will be very important, will not give rise to compensation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] For all these reasons, and despite some progress, in the name of the principle of free administration of communities, I will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u233	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u234	Madam Chair, Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again – this is the third time – to consider a proposal to adapt the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the "NOTRE Act", promulgated on August 7, 2015.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u235	"Ruralicide" law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u236	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The NOTRE Act followed the recommendations of the Balladur report in particular. In 2012, the observation was as follows:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u237	You're talking about a very old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u238	[[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] ...24_162 different local authorities managed 35160 drinking water and sanitation services. It's always a pleasure to see you again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u239	We didn't move. We're loyal to the post office!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u240	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u241	The management of drinking water was more than 70 per cent owned by municipalities, but this affected less than 30 per cent of the population; 56% of the services served less than 1000 inhabitants. Drinking water leaks were estimated at 30%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u242	It is not the intercommunities that will solve the problem of leaks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u243	The NOTRE Act provides that, as of 1 January 2020, water and sanitation skills will be transferred automatically to communities of communes and agglomeration communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u244	It is the law of the Directorate General of Local Authorities of the Ministry of the Interior that is behind!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u245	Aware of the difficulties encountered by certain intercommunalities in making this transfer effective – this issue had been raised by the Senate as early as October 2017 – the minister wished to set up a working group bringing together Members of Parliament and Senators of various trends in order to reach a compromise solution. It is on the basis of this consensus, and with full respect for its elements, that the Republic on the move and MODEM groups have tabled a bill. In the absence of an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee, and after further consideration by our Assembly in early July, the Senate reviewed this bill on July 26, 2018. This new reading has led to some progress, including a clarification of the distribution of responsibilities in the management of urban rainwater. Senators support the solution adopted by the Assembly that stormwater remains a separate responsibility from sanitation. However, it is now expected that stormwater will become a compulsory jurisdiction of agglomeration communities from 1 January 2020, while it remains an optional jurisdiction for communities of communes. On the other hand, the Senate refuses the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and agglomeration communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u246	And for good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u247	They are representatives of local authorities. You have to listen to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u248	I propose that you remain consistent with our previous proposals by providing for the eventual transfer of water and sanitation skills, while allowing the communes that are members of a community of municipalities to postpone the transfer to 2026. On the other hand, for the agglomeration communities, the transfer would remain effective as of 1 January 2020, as foreseen by the NOTRe Act and as the majority of them have already done – studies prove. Let us recall that on 5 July we unanimously decided to allow the municipalities that have already transferred the non-collective sanitation to postpone the transfer of collective sanitation to 2026 for the benefit of the communities of communes. Let us also recall our desire to relax the mechanism of representation-substitution – for we are well aware, contrary to what you claim, that, throughout the territory, there are well-functioning unions and networks that elected officials know and maintain perfectly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u249	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u250	I have already had the opportunity to say this: we are very many, if not unanimous, to appreciate the professionalism and dedication of elected officials and municipal agents, who are ready to travel at any time in case of problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u251	It's beautiful, but it takes action!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u252	This is why there is a need to stop the confusion between the transfer of skills and the mode of management. The legislation in force, specified in two instructions from 2016 and 2017, allows the management of competences to be adapted to the realities of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u253	It's dressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u254	The transfer to inter-municipalities does not call into question the way local public services are managed, whether it is a management in government or a delegation of public services. As regards the price of water, the arrangements and timetable for possible price convergence are left to the discretion of the intercommunalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u255	It'll be easy to handle. You know it's simply impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u256	The management arrangements that I have just reminded you and which do not constitute an exhaustive list already exist in the law. The coexistence of different management modes depending on the particularities of the terrain or political will is therefore possible. It is our intention to leave it to the municipalities and the intercommunals to agree on the management of their competences for the territory they know so well. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Today, for this final reading, the La République en marche group intends to return to the text adopted in new reading, adding a new management facility through the authorities, through an amendment by our colleague Raphaël Schellenberger and by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u257	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u258	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to close this evening an unfortunate episode of a water issue. An episode, I say, because the show is far from over – I will come back to it in the second part of my speech. This unfortunate episode began three years ago, with the adoption of the NOTRE law of August 7, 2015. Since then, many people have mobilized to reverse this technocratic decision on the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills, including the now-known circle of the Ardéchois. My colleague Mathieu Darnaud, in the Senate, unanimously passed a bill in February 2017 to maintain this jurisdiction among the optional powers of communities of communes and agglomeration communities. I am honoured to have defended, on behalf of the Republicans, this text, last October, in the National Assembly, a true beating heart of democracy and control of the Government's action – we have been able to measure it again in recent days and in recent hours. You have, at the time, wiped out this text supported on many benches, sending it back to committee, without taking the trouble of amending it, leading us into a dead end. Two Ardéchois could hide a third one, it was Olivier Dussopt who proposed, just before the Congress of Mayors, an honorable way out through the establishment of a blocking minority. You have demined the Congress of Mayors with talent, Madam Minister. This has not prevented the Association of Mayors of France from denouncing, in recent days, the gap between the statements of the President of the Republic and the reality of this bill of the majority, which incomprehensiblely closes the door of easing to the communities of agglomeration. Why such a lack of confidence in mayors and local elected officials? Why a parole, bounded in 2026, even if, by then, it will pass a lot of water under the bridges? This text will remain a missed opportunity, because it does not go far enough, because it does not call into question the mandatory nature of the transfer of powers. We continue to believe that the municipalities are best placed to appreciate the relevant scale of service sharing and to organise effectively the exercise of these skills, in particular according to the characteristics of the resource – complex and diverse characteristics on the ground, particularly in the slope and mountain areas, Ms Battistel recalled and Ms Genevard will return to it. We were able to move the lines with the bumps. Of course, this is not a big victory, but rather a minimum trade union, which does not yet provide any guarantee against the risk of a sharp rise in the price of water. The compromise reached here in the National Assembly on stormwater management is in the right direction, as is the relaxation of the rules of representation-substitution within trade unions. As I had the opportunity to say earlier, on this text we will do against bad fortune good heart. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the stakes are elsewhere. After the postponement of the first conclusions of the water foundations – this is not a good signal to the actors – the next fight is the law of finance. It is not because intercommunalities will have jurisdiction that they will have more means to invest. Indeed, your majority has hit water agency budgets fatally in the latest finance law. I asked you here on 5 July, without success, Madam Minister, about the reality of the figures of the Rhône Méditerranée Corse water agency. These are concrete examples of the disastrous consequences of your budgetary policy. Before you came to power, the annual royalty budget was € 540 million. Today, it is 400 million, or a quarter less resources, while funding needs are enormous, at the edge of the eleventh multiannual programme of intervention. How, under these conditions, can investment in water and sanitation be revived at the heart of the territories? Many colleagues, including Martial Saddier, are constantly alerting the Government to the consequences of this policy, which calls into question the financial solidarity between urban and rural territories, which signifies the abrupt cessation of the financing of non-collective sanitation and which now weakens the financial model of projects for interconnection, water supply, sewage treatment plants or the renovation of the network. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have taken the risk of questioning a fundamental principle in our country, which wants water to pay for water. But everything is not lost: we are working together on the 2019 Finance Bill, to give our country the means to invest in our water and sanitation infrastructure. There's an emergency. It is an absolute priority, a lever of development that must bring us all together, in a shared conviction: investing in water is good for the environment, good for economic activity and good for employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u260	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u261	What will the MODEM do?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u262	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at last we come to the end of the parliamentary shuttle on the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes. After the failure, expected and obvious, of the Joint Joint Committee and facing a Senate which, in new reading, remained encamped in its positions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u263	Good sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u264	... it is therefore up to our House to vote on the text as a final reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u265	[[Smile]] You drank the cup!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u266	We therefore find the wording of the new reading of 5 July, which restores the introduction of flexibilities in the conditions for the implementation of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to the communities of communes. These realistic flexibilities do not, however, break with the logic of the compulsory transfer,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u267	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u268	... of which I know that a number of you wanted to question, as the rapporteur François Bonhomme said, "to loosen the corset represented by the NOTRE law on communities". Ladies and gentlemen, according to the will of the majority, this bill, which is the result of an initiative by the LaREM and MODEM groups, provides adequate answers to the real organisation of rural areas. We take into account the reality, in this case the need to relax the conditions for transfer within the communities of communes. Yes, we prefer flexibility and confidence to a new territorial big bang, which would make the situation on the ground even more illegible. Yes, the NOTRE and MAPTAM laws have considerably complicated the daily lives of our communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u269	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u270	It will not have escaped you that this new act of decentralization, neither done nor done, is the act of this majority nor of this government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u271	Some of you voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u272	We inherit it. And we are acting, with pragmatism, without imposing a new revolution on local authorities, which, above all, require a legislative break. Besides, I'm telling you, we have to take on the intercommunal fact. Yes, intercommunality, which can and must progress in its operational and democratic functioning, is not in itself the problem. Some would like to make intercommunality the source of all the evils in our territories – the same, often, which, on a different scale, impute our national problems to Europe. Intercommunality is not an obstacle. The blockage is above all political. I think we can make a difference. Not everything will come from the law: local practices and the desire to unite and gather local elected representatives must be taken into account in order to weigh, share and advance. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, we must free ourselves from the baronial fact, which is also very real. We have incorporated four strengths into this bill. First, we create in Article 1e r a blocking minority mechanism, which can be used by the communes members of communities of communes in order to postpone the transfer to 1 January 2026, without calling into question the transfer of powers in fine. If the community of communes does not exercise any of the powers at the time of the enactment of the law, its member communes will thus be able to oppose the transfer of any of these powers on three conditions – you know them, I will not remind you of them. Another important subject: the text provides for a relaxation of the representation-substitution mechanism, in order to enable the many trade unions performing their functions to continue to do so in an absolutely satisfactory manner. Indeed, the current state of law provides that these trade unions must include among their members communes from at least three different EPCIs. If this condition is not met, the consequences are clear: automatic withdrawal of the municipalities members of the trade union and dissolution of the latter. The proposed law removes this threshold for communities of communes and agglomeration communities. Thirdly, and not least, we have, by amendment on a new reading, rewritten Article 2, which now clarifies the procedures for exercising urban rainwater competence, at the same level as sanitation competence. The amendment by Marc Fesneau, whom I thank for his mobilisation, and the MODEM Group, has therefore made an exception in the case of communities of communes, for which the exercise of rainwater competence will remain optional. I thank the rapporteur for finally following us on this progress, which, let us note, has been supported by the Senate. On the secability of competences we have also reached a compromise, and that is so much better. This will be the last point: thanks to an amendment by the rapporteur, supported by the majority groups, we have included in the law the possibility of activating the blocking minority on only part of the sanitation competence. In this way, we will not penalize communities that have already begun a movement towards the mutualization of this public policy. In a few words, ladies and gentlemen, our reasons for satisfaction with this text. Thank you to the chairmen of the LaREM and MODEM groups, Richard Ferrand and Marc Fesneau, for their initial bill; Thank you to Minister Jacqueline Gourault for her listening and availability; Thank you to Mrs Émilie Chalas for her constructive and open work with us;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u273	Is it time for the awards?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u274	...thank you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the opportunity to respond to a strong expectation from our communes and communities of communes, especially rural ones, by voting, one last time, in favour of this text. (Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u275	It's a slow wick on a dynamite stick!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u276	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u277	I would like to reply to three speakers. Mr Chassaigne, first of all...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u278	He's here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u279	I know that and I can hear you. We did not make the transfer mandatory: we have relaxed a transfer that has been mandatory since 2015. Then you mix the administrative and management perimeters. It's the heart of the subject. I think you're missing out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u280	[[Smile]] All right? I'm learning something! She's very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u281	This is the issue of the transcript!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u282	Mrs Battistel, when communities are merged, there is either an alignment from the top of the powers already transferred or, within three months, restitution to the communes. After this deadline, in 2020, if it is a community of agglomeration, the transfer remains mandatory, and if it is a community of communes, it will be able to apply the blocking minority. Mr Brun, I remind you, dear and esteemed colleague,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u283	Excellent colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u284	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... your signature on the initial agreement of the ministerial working group. I would also remind you of the unanimous vote – less one abstention – at the first reading. Finally, I would like to remind you of your paradoxical abstentions in a new reading. Today, should I expect a vote against it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u285	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on a new reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u286	The purpose of this amendment is to restore the real right of municipalities to maintain the management of their water and sanitation. We come to the conclusion of the review of this text on the transfer of water and sanitation skills, which is supposed to result in this unreasonable provision of the calamitous NOTRE law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u288	... which, unwisely, had decided on the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills to intercommunal structures. Minister, since you were opposed to this transfer at the time, we were full of hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u289	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u290	But this hope was quickly dubbed because this text is a fraud. It offers only the appearance of optionality, since the temporary nature of the latter and, above all, the lack of funding for the competences in question, when they remain at the communal level, render the provisions of the proposed law totally ineffective. The municipalities will not choose to retain these skills if they do not receive any funding and, in addition, the investments that they would make become obsolete by 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u291	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u292	I repeat: the municipalities will not make this choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u293	She didn't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u294	She understood everything, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u295	How so? That's the problem! Listen to the mayors, instead of throwing stupid invectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u296	Let's listen to the mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u297	When we don't agree, we don't understand! We have to stop this kind of thinking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u298	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, NG and GDR groups]] The majority lacked courage and vision. It has lacked courage, because it has preferred to satisfy political interests or the injunctions of the high administration, and it has lacked foresight, because by harming the autonomy of local authorities, it also harms the interests of users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u300	Unsurprisingly, the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, which is the same as at first and only in new readings. It aims to reverse the very principle of the transfer of powers to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration, by repealing the provisions of the NOTRE Act. We are obviously against it. I regret that this amendment does not reflect the efforts that have led to a compromise since the establishment of the working group last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u302	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Genevard, some elected representatives want the transfer of water and sanitation to remain mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u303	They have the opportunity to make this transfer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u304	You have spoken, please allow me to speak in my turn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u305	Oh, there! But we're going to be scared!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u306	We have found a compromise, which does not satisfy you – I can understand it. However, we have sought that balance. Moreover, no senior administration imposes anything on us. The administration is working on policy demands. We therefore take responsibility for this choice. Consequently, unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u307	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u308	Minister, the NOTRE Act is tragic because it killed the notion of community interest. This is illustrated by the mandatory transfer of water and sanitation skills. You claim to have found a compromise: courage would have wanted you to remain faithful to your initial positioning. As a member of the Senate, you objected to this mandatory transfer. Communities wishing to take this jurisdiction can do so. If you had given up the end of 2020 and allowed water agencies to continue to subsidize the works, the intercommunalities that wanted to do so could take over the jurisdiction and the municipalities that wanted to keep it could also do so. This was the real exit solution from the top. At first reading, I reminded you of the way in which this transfer was adopted, one evening, in catini, at midnight and a half. We were just a few, having no impact assessment. What we are accusing you, Madam Minister, is that with this text you are not purge this original fault. While it presents itself as a trial of compromise, in reality you have not prevented the compulsory transfer: you maintain it, since it is the rule. You have to recognize him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u309	I recognize him, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u310	You didn't give the communes the opportunity to really escape. It is this deception that I wish to denounce this evening at the end of the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u311	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u312	It is not a trick: the Government fully assumes its political choice not to go back on the mandatory transfer. This choice is completely transparent. We simply allow a reduction in the mandatory nature of the transfer until 2026, by introducing a blocking minority. I repeat, it is a political choice that we have made and that we are taking, because some elected representatives are not in favour of a step back. I followed very closely the examination of the NOTRE law, I even participated in the Joint Joint Committee. I will not have the insolentness to remind you why some have allowed this transfer – it was to prevent other political decisions from being taken regarding future elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u313	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u314	I will go in the same direction as the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u315	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u316	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We can't pretend that the NOTRE law didn't exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u317	It's a former socialist who tells you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u318	That there were different positions at the time it was adopted is a reality. But we can't do today as if it hasn't applied in three years...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u319	Not in three years! Since 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u320	...and as if a number of communities of municipalities had not yet carried out studies with a view to the 2020 deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u321	As a result of these studies, they found that the transfer was not relevant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u322	I would remind you that, if we do nothing, it is this deadline that will apply. As a result, processes have been initiated. I agree with the minister: some of our colleagues even want the provisions of the NOTRE Act to be maintained as they were passed because they have engaged in these processes. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are trying to find a compromise here, so that those who have taken the step can continue to be supported in the process, but those who wish to take the time for further reflection can do so in good conditions. We do with reality. I do not know who recalled this afternoon, by quoting General de Gaulle, that there was no policy outside of reality. Indeed, even when it comes to drinking water, this principle must apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u323	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u324	We do not do politics outside of reality. In fact, there are two realities. The first is that we do not agree with the vision of the NOTRE law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u325	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u326	We have consistently defended this position since the beginning of our discussions. You cannot accuse us of being inconsistent on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, Minister, there are, of course, communities that are asking you to maintain an obligation. For our part, we are challenging the right of these communities to ask for the compulsory transfer of powers, because we are defending a principle of freedom, namely the free administration of local and regional authorities. If some communities want to transfer water or sanitation to the inter-municipal level, we will not oppose it; We simply oppose the mandatory nature of this transfer. I repeat, we are defending a fundamental principle recognised both by our Constitution and by various European texts, which is the free administration of local and regional authorities. This principle includes the concept of Community interest, which Annie Genevard recalled earlier and which we believe is essential for the construction of a territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u327	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u328	My speech will be very brief, Madam President. It is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. I have seen that, since the beginning of our discussion, government commissioners who accompany the Minister have allowed themselves to make mimics, to express appreciation of the interventions of the deputies, to congratulate themselves with great smiles on the interventions of some and to mock the interventions of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u329	It's usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u330	We see him every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u331	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There are rules in this assembly. It is true that, for the past year, some people have allowed themselves to despise parliamentarians. In any event, I ask you, Madam President, to speak to the minister to ask the people who accompany her to observe the reserve that is essential in our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u332	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u333	Why don't you call the unions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u334	A little respect, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u335	It's contempt On the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u336	We heard you, Mr. Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u337	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 8. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u338	This amendment adopted by the Senate authorizes the creation, under certain conditions, of a single government responsible for the operation of public water services, sanitation and the management of urban rainwater. I had defended this amendment in the Senate as a result of the interventions I had heard in the National Assembly, including that of Mr.Schellenberger, who tabled an identical amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u339	Nice fatherhood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u340	I therefore think that these explanations are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u341	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u342	I could almost have just said "defended." First of all, I would like to thank the minister for supporting this amendment in the Senate, which allows us to discuss it today – the funnel rule did not allow me to table it again in the National Assembly. I stress the importance of the parliamentary shuttle in these circumstances. As the texts are discussed by our assemblies, there are questions that we did not think about at the outset, which may appear as ancillary subjects but which are essential for the territories. I would like to take this opportunity to open a debate. Amendment No 8 will allow personal authorities attached to local authorities to exercise both water and sanitation skills without having to divide, which would lead to a number of administrative and technical complexities which would make it quite difficult for a public person to exercise these skills at local level. I invite you to look at what is happening on the other side of the Rhine, where public authorities sometimes have much broader powers than water and sanitation, since they can include any form of distribution networks, including transport networks. Finally, they take advantage of one skill to exercise another. This organization is not contrary to the principle of "water pays for water", to which we attach particular importance, nor to the principle of competition in our territories. On the other hand, it makes it possible to provide public services in the territories, at relevant levels, by pooling a number of technical supports.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u343	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u344	On the substance, the Committee's opinion is in favour since these amendments aim to promote the mutualisation of certain functions, in particular in terms of resources and personnel, for example through a single cash account, without calling into question the cardinal principle that each of these industrial and commercial public services will have a separate budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u345	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u346	The aim of this amendment is to enable intercommunals with one or more municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants to cover water or sanitation services in their general budget. This amendment would make it possible to make more concrete progress towards the necessary rationalization of the rules laid down by the NOTRE law – this "ruralicide" law – especially for rural areas. But what about the results of the supplementary budgets of the municipalities which transfer competence to intercommunality? The misappropriation by some municipalities of the revenues generated by a user surcharge, which they do not pay to the intercommunities, is a considerable injustice which will unfortunately not be settled by this text. What, finally, of the possibility requested by many intercommunalities to open supplementary budgets according to territories, surcharges and works in order to take the time of harmonization? In short, Amendment No 3 would make it possible to make a clear improvement in this text, with minimal progress and, above all, temporary progress, since it is limited to 2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u347	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u349	Disadvantaged, for reasons of substance that I have already developed in a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u351	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u352	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u353	This amendment seems to me to be a step in the right direction, as it allows for greater solidarity between the municipalities and greater flexibility in the management of the municipalities. Without calling into question the interest of intercommunal cooperation, I note that the municipalities are generally the most able to assess their own situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u354	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u355	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u357	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u359	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u360	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u361	I want to take advantage of the examination of Amendment No. 4 to recall something that has not yet been said this evening and which has rarely been said in discussions in the National Assembly and in the Senate: water policy is one of the major successful public policies in our country for sixty years. Water policy is at the root of the "polluter pays" principle, since water has been financing water for 60 years. As I have already had the opportunity to recall during our late discussions in the National Assembly, and as my colleague Fabrice Brun also recalled this evening – I thank him for this – if we are content with an ideological debate between the supporters of communal competence and those who prefer intercommunal competence, this will in no way solve the problem of the current inability of water agencies to finance the work in 2019. The minister knows that, but I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to pay attention to me. Today, it is impossible for us to honour the commitments of the end of the tenth programme and those of the eleventh programme,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u362	Because of the "draining ceiling"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u363	... in view of the cash flow levy imposed on us, the application of the principle of the "coating ceiling" from 1 January next and the biodiversity plan of 600 million euros, announced by the Government and the majority, of which no one speaks but whose funding will have to be provided by the water agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u364	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u365	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, NG and GDR groups]] Minister, I thank the Government, which has never broken the dialogue with the Conference of Basin Committee Chairs – I can attest to that. However, ladies and gentlemen, if the Government and the majority are unable to provide financial answers to the questions raised by Fabrice Brun, I can assure you that our discussions this evening will have very little effect on the drying up of funding for water and sanitation policies carried out by local and regional authorities on the eve of the municipal deadline of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u366	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u367	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u368	I would like to recall once again that we have always been in favour of maintaining water and sanitation skills among the optional competences of communities of communes and agglomeration communities. Unfortunately, this bill does not call into question the mandatory nature of the transfer of powers; However, in the Senate, some interesting advances have been voted on. Amendment No 5 is intended precisely to restore an article introduced by the Senate at first reading and deleted by the National Assembly on new reading: we propose that the budgetary balance of a public service of an industrial and commercial nature be transferred to the EPCI which has become competent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u371	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u372	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u374	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u375	Can we have some explanations?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u376	You know the explanations, Mr. Minot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u377	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u378	Rural mayors are deeply disillusioned. We have lost a number of battles, but I hope we have not lost the war. In our view, the minor arrangements you have agreed to, including the postponement of the deadline with the blocking minority, are insufficient. You deny the reality of the territories and in a way break the freedom of the communes. Yes, Mr. Rebeyrotte, some studies are being conducted, but they do not necessarily conclude that the transfer of skills is appropriate. Sometimes they even point out that this transfer is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u379	They can also highlight the value of the transfer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u380	This is the whole point of studies, when they are conducted freely. The local elected representatives must be trusted. This Amendment No 6 by Mr Fabrice Brun aims to clarify the division of responsibilities for storm water management between the coming entry into force of this bill and 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u381	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u382	In the text before us, the article is well written and quite clear. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u383	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u384	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u385	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u386	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u387	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1 and 9. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u388	This simple amendment, full of common sense, but very important, allows communities of agglomeration to be reintegrated into your bill. As you know, Madam Minister, some small and rural communities operate like communities of communes, so just re-integrate them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In addition, Madam Minister, it seems to me that the working group of MPs and senators referred to the word "intercommunality", which has been transformed into "community of communes." If you would like us to vote on your bill, please re-integrate the intercommunities, particularly the communities of agglomeration. It is simple common sense and it is simply to take into account the realities of the ground, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u389	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u390	The explanation will be the same as that just presented by Mr Vigier. In some rural agglomeration communities, some municipalities are very remote and the exercise of water and sanitation skills is not relevant. These municipalities are, in fact, excluded from this text and will not be able to benefit from the derogations that you have put in place. We therefore hope that the scheme will be extended to include agglomeration communities. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur for further information on the reply she gave me earlier. My question concerned the fact that, when communities of communes were merged, some of the former communities of merged communes had taken over water and sanitation skills and that, at the time of the merger, those powers were automatically transferred to the large community of communes. However, in the case of, for example, three intercommunities having merged, one of which had the powers, the other two did not. For example, for about ten municipalities, water and sanitation skills are exercised by intercommunality, while the other thirty, for example, exercise them in direct management. My question, therefore, was whether they could benefit from the derogation regime under the blocking minority in order to remain in this system or whether they would have to move on to the full exercise of water and sanitation skills in 2020. In fact, I'm a little worried about your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u391	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u392	Unfavorable opinion on both amendments. To answer your question, Mrs Battistel, if the merger leads to a new community of communes, all the former communities of communes de facto transfer the water and sanitation skills, unless within three months they decide to hand them over to the communes. That's a first element. Second, if one leads to a community of agglomeration, transfer is in any case mandatory in 2020. First solution, therefore: three months for a return to the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u394	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u395	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u396	If, therefore, there is no return to square one, i.e. if the powers are not transferred back to the communes, the communities of communes will not be able, if I have understood correctly, to benefit from the derogation scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u397	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u398	Mrs Battistel, I suggest that we talk about it again after the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u399	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u400	Minister, throughout the discussions, you and your successive speakers have spoken to us about the freedom and free administration of communities, as well as the need to take into account the specificity of certain situations. We are now proposing an amendment that is not neutral, because it allows this principle to be applied to all the inter-communities: we are therefore at the heart of this freedom of choice for the communities, and you are sweeping it with a simple backhand. As my colleagues, both on the right and on the left, have explained very well, with skills and knowledge of very fine communities, some communities in the agglomeration are otherwise more rural and experience situations that are otherwise more specific than some communities in the communes. You have not put forward any substantive arguments – and I am weighing my words – to the fact that this flexibility measure, which is already very minimalist, does not apply equally to our small communes, which are today, sometimes because of the NOTRE law, who are prisoners of communities of agglomeration and who would deserve as much as others to enjoy the freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u401	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u402	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] All I'm asking is a substantive argument. If you don't have one, show common sense and take a step towards us by allowing all municipalities to have at least this freedom of choice and to postpone this choice until 2026. This would be the least of all, given the double hypocrisy that we have witnessed, the first of which was to make us believe that some municipalities were asking for the transfer of jurisdiction to remain mandatory, whereas the optional nature that applies to others did not prevent those who so wished from making such a transfer. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As for the second hypocrisy – and we are at the heart of the question – it was to make us believe that all municipalities would have the freedom of choice, whereas, through means or through the compulsory transfer of competence for water and sanitation, it will fall, no matter what, in 2026. This is therefore a very restricted and very constrained freedom of choice, and, moreover, as a result of the rejection of this amendment, it applies only to very few communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u403	I put to the vote the whole of the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on a new reading, as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-31-E1043.u404	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Final reading of the draft law on freedom to choose one's professional future; Final reading of the bill on controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration; Discussion on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft policy and programming bill strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. The meeting is adjourned.
