ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u1	The next item is the debate on the information report of the Public Policy Review and Control Committee on the implementation of the conclusions of the information report of 8 February 2017 on the evaluation of the regulation of gambling. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear the rapporteurs as well as the speakers of the groups and then the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Let me remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes. Mrs Olga Givernet, rapporteur of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u2	Madam President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to acknowledge the usefulness of the National Assembly's evaluation and oversight committee, which, eight years after the gambling act of 2010, has made it possible to ask the right questions. Today, together with my colleague Régis Juanico, he offers us the opportunity to report on the follow-up to the measures proposed a year ago. Gambling and gambling are entertaining more than 30 million people in France. It is a dynamic sector that creates many jobs. It intervenes in four game segments: horse betting, scraping and drawing games, casinos and online games. It is above all a leisure that makes our shops live and dream of the players. It is also an economic sector that represents real wealth for our country – and I am not just thinking about the financial return for the state. But, we also know, who says gambling, says risk of addiction, risk of fraud, risk of money laundering. In the interests of public health and order, this activity must be regulated and regulated. I recall that the law in principle prohibits gambling. All activities carried out legally are therefore authorised by derogation, with two objectives: to fight against the illegal market and to protect the players. It is interesting that, among the sixteen recommendations of the initial information report, those that made consensus have made the best progress. As for those that have been rejected or found no beginning of application, we confirm the need to take them into account as originally defined. However, we wanted to modulate proposal 10, which aims to subject gaming operations to the automated reading of an identity document because we want to make it a little more flexible. The ban on play by minors remains fundamental and even more so its proper application, but it is applied in a heterogeneous manner, with a tolerance rate in shops still far too high. The means of development of the gambling sector are now multiplied by technological developments. The French game company understands this: by making its tools evolve towards digital, this company owned by the state still records record results this year. This is not the case for all operators. We cannot deny the tensions between them, and some are facing economic difficulties, aggravated by the competitive aspect of the sector. During the hearings we conducted, all the operators stressed the lack of coordination that remains between all the institutional interlocutors. This lack was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, which is among the supporters of a reorganisation of regulation. Yet we have positive experiences. In 2010, when the law allowed the development of online games, it asked itself the question of regulation and gave a clear answer: the creation of ARJEL, the Authority for the regulation of online games, to which it gave the means to regulate operators, to coordinate them and to monitor the market. This independent authority, whose effectiveness has been stressed by the Court of Auditors, has broad powers: it issues approvals to operators, monitors the proper application of the law, fights corruption and money laundering, as well as against the addiction of players. Its independence guarantees a neutral interface between players, the operator and the state, which, I would remind you, collects taxes. It allows free competition to be respected, which is far from trivial when we know that even the monopolies in the sector tend to compete themselves. At a time when we are wondering about the possibility of opening up the capital of French gaming, I do not see any inconvenience, provided that we, the public authorities, take the measure of this need for harmonization of regulation. Fair treatment of operators in the face of the law and its intentions is necessary. The transversality of the means of control available to operators is within reach – for example, the widespread access to the game ban file. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This information report therefore proposes to go further by allowing, among other things, the creation of a single and independent regulatory body. This is a fair idea because it will protect our citizens, ensure fair treatment between operators, guarantee the neutrality of the public service and be able to grasp the rapid developments in the whole sector. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will soon be able to legislate in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u3	Mr Régis Juanico, rapporteur of the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the Court of Auditors, including Jacques Myard – my first co-rapporteur – and I myself had asked for assistance, we drew up an evaluation of the regulation of gambling, presented to the National Assembly's Evaluation and Monitoring Committee on 8 February 2017. Our information report included sixteen proposals, which I, together with my co-rapporteur for follow-up, Olga Givernet, examined the implementation of. It is often said that the recommendations of parliamentary reports, including those of the evaluation and oversight committee, remain dead letters or are not followed up. We have noted with satisfaction that nine of the sixteen proposals have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented: they allow us to better combat money laundering in the physical outlets of La Française des jeux and in casinos, to better combat the manipulations of sports events and to optimize the program and the timetable of the horse races proposed to the bettors. I want to say, Minister, that the right of continuation of parliamentary reports works! Conversely, seven recommendations remain unimplemented, some of which call for political decisions: this is the case, Mr. Minister, of the consultation of the file of the prohibitions of play at the physical points of sale of the PMU and La Française des jeux, of the creation of an interministerial committee on gambling, and above all, as Olga Givernet said, of the creation of a single regulator, in the form of an independent administrative authority, which could result from the extension of the powers of the Autorité de régulation des jeux en ligne, ARJEL – although it would be quite possible to envisage two separate regulatory colleges, one for the competitive gaming sector and the other for the monopoly sector. With regard to the strengthening of the ban on minors, what do you think of the idea of requiring retailers to ask the player for identification if there is a doubt about his age, knowing that this provision already exists in the regulations prohibiting the sale of alcohol and tobacco to minors? As regards improvements to public policies to deal with problematic gambling, the initial information report noted, and the new one recalls, that the practice of gambling is intensifying: players – 56% of French – play more often and bet more, for stakes of up to 45 billion euros per year. With regard to addiction, the number of excessive players has remained stable for five years, but the number of moderate-risk players has increased 2.5 times over the same period, and the problem affects 1 million people. Nevertheless, we still do not have socio-economic assessment studies on the damage caused by excessive gambling: unemployment, divorce, deterioration of health, over-indebtedness, suicide, etc. It was proposed to conduct a scientific study on the social cost of problematic gambling, under the auspices of the Games Observatory. Or are we, minister, in funding this study? Can we hope for a stronger involvement of the Ministry of Health? I would also like to draw your attention to two points of vigilance. Firstly, the decline in the number of point-of-sale sports bets observed since 2017, in favour of online sports bets, makes it necessary for regulators to reflect on a possible increase in the rate of return to players on hard bets compared to players on online bets, knowing that there are now almost ten points of difference. Would you be in favour of it, Minister? Are you committed to launching the experiment – which has taken a long time – of sporting events in certain points of sale of La Française des jeux, which would allow the passage a better identification of the players? Secondly, in this country, strong and powerful regulation of gambling is indispensable, especially since it is a question of opening up the capital of La Française des jeux. This transaction questions us strongly: how to make a private shareholding compatible with public service obligations and tasks, which is the counterpart to the recognition of the monopoly? If public ownership is dominant today – the state holding 72% of the capital and the rest being distributed among employees and veterans' associations – which favours a certain degree of self-limitation, particularly in the search for new games that promote addiction, the same may not be true with private shareholders, more focused on maximizing the profitability of the company and return on investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u5	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u6	I will conclude – since you invite me, Madam President – by recalling, in order to justify the powerful control exercised by La Française des jeux, the latter's contribution to the general interest: tax revenues to the tune of 3.3 billion euros, 52000 jobs and 250 million euros for the financing of sport, notably amateur sport, La Française des jeux being even the first financier of sport for all, which must be preserved. Can you reassure us, Minister, on this burning issue, the possible privatization of La Française des jeux?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u8	We now come to the speakers in the groups. Mr Alain David, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u9	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, rapporteur, the information report of the evaluation and control committee recalls that in France, the legal framework of the game is based on a principle of prohibition, accompanied by a list of derogations that has increased over the years: horse racing in 1891, casinos in 1907, game circles in 1923, Loterie nationale in 1933, sports betting in 1984, video game competitions, etc. Such a prohibition regime, which is highly derogating from the rules of the market economy, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, is justified for reasons of public order and health, the fight against fraud and the risk of dependence. Each of the successive derogations from the general prohibition on gambling has resulted in the introduction of a specific mode of regulation, so that, by successive strata, little intelligible stacking has been achieved, based on double partitioning, by game segment and by distribution channel. This organisation has not changed since the law of 12 May 2010 on opening up to competition and regulating the online gambling sector, which had set four objectives for the public policy of regulating games: preventing excessive or pathological gambling and protecting minors; ensure the integrity, reliability and transparency of gaming operations; prevent fraudulent or criminal activities and the laundering of money and the financing of terrorism; Finally, to ensure the balanced and equitable development of the different types of gambling in order to avoid any economic destabilization of the sectors concerned. However, the multiplicity of interlocutors increases the response time of the public authorities, while the gaming sector does not escape a continuous process of innovation which requires it to be responsive. It is therefore necessary, more than seven years after the enactment of the 2010 law, to take into account the acceleration of the technological revolution and to reunify the modes of regulation, as our colleagues Olga Givernet and Régis Juanico propose in their report. Looking at the figures in the information report on the development of the different categories of games, we see that sports bets, both hard and online, benefit from a significant development and that lottery and scraping games remain at a high level, while casinos start a timid recovery, after years of marasm. The real surprise lies in the failure of online poker and in the low profitability of so-called "alternative" operators which appeared in favour of the opening to competition of online games carried out by the law of 2010. The online game is far from having been the expected eldorado since the number of operators fell from forty-two in 2010 to fourteen in 2017. The online gaming market has been characterised for seven years by a differentiated dynamism of the three authorized segments – sports betting, horse betting and poker – but also by the low profitability of the operators. ARJEL calculated that between 2010 and 2016, the activity of open-ended gambling had resulted in a total operating loss of around EUR 485 million, resulting in an overall loss of EUR 14 million in 2016 alone. These poor results have several causes. First, the definition of online game segments authorized by the law of 12 May 2010 is narrow, making it difficult to adapt to market innovations and sometimes making the offer illegal comparatively more attractive. There is also strong competition between online operators: spurred by the illegal offer, they sometimes approach the yellow line of the return rate ceiling to players by 85% or even exceed it, which can affect their profitability. Furthermore, the CEC report regrets, following the Court of Auditors, the definition of the base applicable to this activity and proposes, at least for online poker, to substitute the gross proceeds of games for bets, and to study the extension of this measure to all gambling. Minister, are you in favour of this? What do you think of the idea of entrusting, on this issue of gambling taxation, an impact assessment prior to the evaluation and monitoring mission of the Committee on Finance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u10	Good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u11	There is also a need to consider reform of horse racing institutions. The erosion of the stakes of the horse bets is in fact the result of the tendential decline in the proportion of turfists in the French population, which fell from 14% in 2006 to 8.4% in 2015. If we pay particular attention to the economic aspect of this institution of races that is the PMU, it is because it carries out a public order mission by financing the equine sector, a sector of excellence that employs more than 35,000 direct jobs in France. The adjustment of the accounts of parent companies will require the implementation of a number of strategic reform axes. The rapporteurs of the initial evaluation had specifically identified two of them: optimisation of the race schedule and tighter control of the internal management of the same parent companies. The implementation of the first proposal has begun since, as early as 2017, France Galop has begun to seriously reduce races with fewer than eight starters and the two parent companies are currently working on the development of the 2018 race calendar on the basis of the recommendations of a consulting firm which has provided them with a tool to help with the adapted decision. With regard to the second proposal, the PMU and the parent companies have put in place a performance plan, which has resulted in savings; We hope that these efforts will continue. With regard to control and the fight against money laundering, two proposals of the information report have been taken into account: since 1 October 2017, obtaining a PMU licence is subject to the favourable opinion of the Central Races and Games Service, which allows to verify the history of the creators and buyers of points of sale, and to ascertain the origin of the funds invested in them. The Court of Auditors had also regretted the preservation of the anonymity of the bettors in the physical network and called for the introduction of a mandatory identification system, of the type of player card, like the system in force in Norway. The rapporteurs called for a pragmatic adjustment of proposal No 10 of the 2017 information report, aiming at the plurality of instruments allowing the identification of winners and big betters. The rapporteurs propose to give serious impetus to the voluntary identification programmes of the players, maximizing the benefits granted to those who join them and making this strategy a major focus of responsible gambling policy subject to the approval of the regulators. The manipulation of sports events in order to take advantage of them by means of sports betting is a global scourge that our country has clearly identified and that it has given itself the means to fight, even if the fraudsters show a lot of ingenuity and imagination without limits. The Act of 1 February 2012 aimed at strengthening the ethics of sport and the rights of sportsmen and women sportsmen and women first sought to identify conflicts of interest that could arise among players in the world of sport. A specific offence of sports corruption was created in the Criminal Code, but no conviction was made on the basis of this criminalization, in particular because its drafting was ambiguous. That is why clause 16 of the bill on the organization of the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games, currently under consideration in our House, proposes a new wording. The information report had finally proposed to ban betting on sports competitions that could be manipulated. This proposal has been heard since Article 7 of the Act of 1 March 2017 aimed at preserving the ethics of sport, strengthening the regulation and transparency of professional sport and improving the competitiveness of clubs has made the risk of manipulation an essential criterion for setting the list of sporting events which may give rise to bets, and it has authorised the President of ARJEL to prohibit, even in very short periods of time, any bet relating to a competition or a sporting event appearing on the list if there are "serious and consistent indications of manipulation". The last element of the information report on which I would like to draw your attention is the situation of La Française des jeux and the rumours of a possible privatisation, which raise concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u12	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u13	Indeed, the State's control of this public undertaking is justified by its mission of general interest. With tax revenues of up to €3.3 billion, 52000 jobs across the country and funding for amateur sport, through a wealth of CNDS – the National Centre for the Development of Sport – to the tune of €250 million, it is necessary to be extremely vigilant on the question of the future of La Française des jeux. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I would say that the New Left Group considers that the recommendations of the rapporteurs who have not yet been able to implement should be subject to a rapid legislative transcription, in order to ensure effective regulation of the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u14	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u15	No to the privatization of La Française des jeux!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u16	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u17	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, not to the privatisation of La Française des jeux! When the debate begins, we will oppose the opening of its capital. I'm coming to my point. Every year, in our country, almost 50 billion euros are bet on gambling. In 2010, 47.8% of the French were casual players; In 2014, this rate had risen by almost 10 points, with France accounting for 46 million players. In addition to an overall increase in the number of players, the number of so-called moderate-risk players has increased alarmingly, from 400,000 in 2010 to 1 million in 2014. Without mentioning too many figures that would complicate my remarks, I note that while, for fifteen years, the French have had less and less money to spend their leisure time, a growing part of this money is dedicated to the game. An economic and social reality, which we cannot ignore, is hidden behind this phenomenon: many of our fellow citizens experience difficulties from which they think they can only extract themselves by miraculous gain, announcing better days. I see it as an umpteenth indicator of the political failure of our successive governments: when an increasing share of the prospects for the future of our fellow citizens rests on chance, it is that the collective hope for a better society diminishes. The game is not one activity like another, for several reasons. The first is its social cost: the well-known barometer of INPES – the National Institute for Prevention and Education for Health – indicates that 40,000 people would have lost their jobs because of the game during the period 2009-2010, with a cost to the community of 2.6 billion euros. And other indirect costs are not quantified: health problems of pathological players, general deterioration of their living conditions, etc. Of course, over-indebtedness is common among players: almost 80% of the players considered problematic are over-indebted, on average up to 25,000 euros. The country now has 200,000 excessive players and, as I said, 1 million moderate-risk players. However, I do not believe that this information report makes the fight against addiction in play a top priority. Simple and concrete measures could, however, be taken quickly. I am thinking, for example, of limiting or even banning advertising for gambling. Television, internet, newspapers, streets and subway corridors are overflowing with these ads; We have to put an end to it. No, minister, it is not normal that so many football players, though well paid, or I don't know which sports leaders, regularly appear in the subway corridors in advertisements inviting our fellow citizens to play, for the benefit of companies often domiciled where they can benefit from tax exemptions. All this is shameful and should simply be forbidden! The culprits will recognize each other. The identification of players, designed to protect minors, would also allow for faster alerting on risky lines. The second factor that makes gambling a separate business activity – as has been mentioned, but I want to go back to it – is that it involves a risk in that it is a way to launder money and encourage tax evasion. If measures were to be taken to protect themselves, the means to implement them would still have to be put in place. An example: when a player earns 1000 euros at the casino, the institution can give him or her a document that makes it legal to hold that money. But if, in order to win these 1000 euros, this player spent 900 dirty money, he will have both managed to clear his 900 euros and to obtain a gain of 100 euros, the whole being exempt from income tax. To justify this, it will suffice to say that he has slipped only 1 euro into the machine and that he has won 1000, which he now legally owns. The Central Races and Games Service wishes that the issuance of these winning certificates by the casinos be prohibited, unless they indicate the amount that the player spent before receiving his gain. In this case, indeed, the money that the player has on him upon his arrival at the casino would not be bleached since he would no longer be considered part of his gain. Are you following my reasoning, ladies and gentlemen? Instead of supporting this measure, the 2017 information report says it is against requiring casinos "the same degree of completeness and reliability of information about their business relationships as they are entitled to expect from banks". Move, there's nothing to see! This is a flagrant, if not guilty, lack of determination to combat tax fraud and money laundering; It's not acceptable. I conclude with the question of taxation for online gambling. The report goes in the direction of gambling operators, who regret too much taxation, "calculated on a base that is not relevant".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u18	That's not what casinos say.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u19	Let's talk about the plate again, why not? But we do not agree that the level of taxation on gambling should be lowered, when it is profitable and the community must, I repeat, bear a multitude of indirect costs. If there is one thing to reduce, ladies and gentlemen, this is the margin achieved by private operators.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u20	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u21	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the New Left Group, which allows us to raise this evening the issue of the regulation of gambling in our country. This debate follows on from the information report submitted on this subject by our colleagues Juanico and Myard in February last year. What follows won't surprise you. In view of the conditions for organizing this debate, it will be difficult for me to address all the essential issues related to gambling, such as the prevention of addiction, the fight against money laundering and criminal networks, or the delicate issue of the taxation of gambling, which has been affected by the increase in the CSG voted in the last budget debate. I will therefore focus my speech on a project that has been crawling, in the pipes for several years, especially since the beginning of this legislature: I want to talk about the plan to privatize La Française des jeux, an old chestnut tree, as journalists would say, part of our political staff, encouraged by business circles who see this as a new financial opportunity. In the same way, in his time, President Sarkozy had jumped on the first opportunity to lure the motorway network to his friends, for the greatest pleasure of their portfolio.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u22	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u24	It is estimated that the loss of profits for the State is around one billion euros per year! Is this the new world: privatize what brings about and collectivize what is in deficit? To believe that competition lowers prices is a chimera when the market is an oligopoly, as in the case of gambling or obviously highways. Clearly, this privatization would be a nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, some economic sectors call for an ambitious policy on the part of the shareholder state and make it essential for it to hold a majority share in the capital of companies, simply for the general interest to take precedence over particular interests. This is particularly the case in the strategic areas of energy, transport and their infrastructure, industry and spatial planning. Employment, the environment, the concerted development of our territories and public health: these are the cardinal values that should guide the policy of the shareholder state. At present, the state holds 72% of the capital of La Française des jeux. This society is in very good financial health, which shows that the state is able to drive a dynamic. It provides the State with substantial tax revenues: €3 billion last year from levies on the bets plus €100 million in dividends. By reducing its stake in La Française des jeux from 25 to 30%, as foreseen by the PACTE law – an action plan for business growth and transformation – which will be presented in the spring, the state would destabilise a financial balance that is now favourable to it. Beyond this financial aspect, at the very least essential, the majority position of the state in the capital of La Française des jeux is justified by the urgent need to prevent and combat effectively the risks associated with gambling: fight against money laundering and potential fraud, protect minors, prevent addictive behaviour. In fact, gambling cannot be regarded as one economic activity as another. They call for specific treatment and demanding control by the State. Privatizing La Française des jeux would be tantamount to questioning the state's ability to effectively combat addiction to gambling. Putting French games in the hands of private interests would inevitably result in the priority search for economic benefit, that is a fact. This could have concrete consequences such as the marketing of new products that are particularly addictive, with disastrous effects, contrary to the need to protect the population – La Française des jeux has also invested online games. The State, ladies and gentlemen, must be the guarantor of public morality. This, in a few words, summarizes our position on the plan to privatize La Française des jeux, which raises many concerns among the company's staff, rightly concerned about the future of jobs. We will fight with strength this technocratic vision, off-ground, symbol of an ideological base of a particularly overgrown world, and which had found its concrete translation in 2015, with the privatization of the airports of Nice and Toulouse, in the Macron law – here you go! – but also that of the motorway companies, whose French pay the high price today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u26	No to privatization!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u27	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteurs for their work, which has been the result of eight hearings. This information report is useful and necessary. Useful because it makes it possible to draw up a step-by-step assessment of the policy of regulating gambling in France, a policy that is not considered very well, while the sector nevertheless plays a major part in the economy of the country and in its tourist attraction. Necessary because it highlights the real transformation that the game industry is experiencing today. Yet this transformation is not accompanied enough by the public authorities, which miss a real opportunity for a win-win commitment. Nine of the sixteen proposals of last year's information report have been initiated or even completed. This is an excellent thing because, while there was much to be done, many measures have been taken in the context of national elections and the change of government. Several of the proposals concern horse betting and PMU, which are going through a difficult period, with multiple causes, including competition from the FDJ and sports bets. Equine bets must rise because the whole of France's equine sector depends on it. It is a line of excellence, with more than 160,000 non-relocable jobs at the key, which offers an international economic showcase to conquer new emerging markets, especially in Asia. Two more worrying remarks should be made. First, the 2010 law, which provided for a re-visit clause, is now overwhelmed by the technologies and usages of players. The legislator must quickly propose a comprehensive mechanism to improve the regulation of the gambling sector as a whole. Secondly, the simplest proposals in the information report have been implemented, but none of the proposals on governance in the game industry has been taken up. Thus, it is regrettable that previous governments have never considered it appropriate to better accompany casinos in the years following the financial crisis, with the rise of online games and the increase of clandestine games. The two hundred French casino operators are subject to legislation which is certainly necessary but also more binding, such as identity checks at entrances. However, they are the only ones who can guarantee with certainty that no minor has access to the playrooms. The information report shows a lack of consideration for this sector. However, these companies employ more than 18,000 employees, not to mention the 30,000 indirect jobs. They participate in the animation and financing of the tourist communes in which they are located. Casino operators are declared traders, whose accounts are scrutinized with extreme attention, rightly. In addition, as the only legal entities subject to the CSG, they are subject to the increase. The implementation of proposal 6 of the information report – encouraging the experimentation of new casino games or new forms of play – would represent a real opportunity to boost these economic players. With regard to casino governance, which the report called for to be improved, it was clear that responsibility had been splintered within the Government. The legacy of the past century is no longer to be. The gaming and betting professionals are the first to call for the creation of an interdepartmental committee, as proposed in the information report. In this regard, we defend the idea of a regulatory authority, with centralized means and prerogatives to ensure the supervision and regulation of the gambling sector. Finally, how can we not talk about TRACFIN when we talk about gambling? This mechanism is necessary to combat money laundering and fraud, which is onerous for professionals. The procedure, which deserves to be relaxed or at least simplified, results from the suspicion, as defined: "An unfavorable opinion towards an economic actor, its behaviour, based on clues, impressions, intuitions, without there being any precise evidence. The declaration of suspicion does not require proof of money laundering or terrorist financing. Sufficient circumstances make such a hypothesis plausible. If we understand the reasons for this arrangement, its modalities run counter to our values: denunciation on the basis of mere suspicion, without evidence, on the basis of elements of a discriminatory nature. In conclusion, Minister, we support the proposals in this information report. Both Parliament and the Government must shoulder their responsibilities. France must adopt a policy of regulating gambling that is modern, assumed, dispassionate and pragmatic. It is cheap paid to accompany an economic fabric already largely established and which produces several billion euros of wealth per year. This policy must be taken seriously, because of course we are talking about money, but also about tourism, culture, jobs and the attractiveness of France. All tourism players must be heard if we are to meet the target of 100 million tourists by 2022. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this information report is a progress report. Let us make sure that it opens the way for a beautiful tourism and games policy, in which the concept of partnership finds its place! Randomity should not guide the need for pragmatic consideration of a major game policy in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u29	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs for the quality of their work. The gambling sector is not well known. Yet, it has a significant impact in the economic, social and health fields. In addition, it reaches the enormous amount of 45 billion annual stakes. It is undergoing very important developments which lead to frequent legislative and regulatory changes. Thus, six months after the publication of the evaluation report, nine of the sixteen proposals are already being implemented or are in the process of being implemented. It is heartening as regards the follow-up to parliamentary reports. It remains to be hoped that all of us will experience the same fate – I still doubt it... It is understandable, when reading this information report, how much it is all about balance. But this balance must be constantly sought. Since 2010, sports betting has been developed at the expense of horse betting. It can be estimated that with the granting of the offline monopoly to La Française des jeux, the PMU lost at least EUR 1 billion in turnover. This has created an imbalance with harmful consequences for a whole industry: the equine sector. The horse industry, however, accounts for nearly 150,000 jobs in France, from breeding to training. It is all the more valuable because its workforce is impossible to relocate, rural, qualified and useful for spatial planning. This is therefore a very important sector for many regions; I measure it in my department of Meurthe-et-Moselle. It should also be noted that horse sites develop an equine line around them by spreading the love of the horse. I have proof of this in my commune, Rosières-aux-Salines, where the EPERON fund – encouraging regional or national equestrian projects – has made a major contribution to the realization of an Olympic ride. I would also like to take this rostrum to regret how much our taxation affects the development of the sector. The tax regime imposed on the market for horse betting also undeniably weighs on owners and breeders, as does the excessive VAT which adversely affects the entire equine sector, resulting in the closure of too many horse clubs. This sport, which offered France two titles at the last Olympic Games, does not deserve it. A balance should therefore be struck between the taxation of horse betting and that of gambling. In 2010, the legislator had committed itself to the law on opening up to competition and regulating the online gambling sector. That commitment must now be fulfilled. When's the equal pay rate for resellers? When is the return to a common mass for the same attraction? As stated in this information report, the attractiveness of horse betting needs to be strengthened in order to sustain the financing of the equine sector. The theme that brings us together tonight resonates with the news as we have heard recently about the Government's plan to open the capital of La Française des jeux. This privatisation would take place as the company, which is 72% owned by the state, recorded record gains – its sales reached EUR 15.1 billion in sales last year, 5.7% more than in 2016. In addition to the fact that we would prefer the Government to undertake real structural reforms instead of selling its flagships, this privatization cannot but be of concern to us. Indeed, La Française des jeux is supposed to guarantee that the games offered do not lead to compulsive behaviour, and therefore regulate its activities in this direction. In the event of privatization, what will become of these obstacles? These already seem insufficient in view of the magnitude of addictions, which, however, remains difficult to measure. In any case, the consequences of addictions are numerous and vast: as you point out, Madam rapporteur, the rapporteur, they lead to separation of couples, unemployment, over-indebtedness, delinquency or even suicide. It is a matter of concern that this phenomenon affects many young people. Deficiencies in the application of the ban on gambling to minors are evident. We can therefore only support your proposals to increase efforts to identify players and combat the game of minors. Online games are a real danger. It is now very easy to play money on the internet without any control. Let us not neglect the fact that the buralists can play a role in controlling this addiction by sensitizing fragile players! They must therefore be strengthened in this role. Promises of winning attract the weakest – there is a strong link between the impoverishment of individuals and their addiction to gambling. Market players sell dreams to their players. Here too, a balance has to be found. It is therefore imperative, as you advocate, to better measure the social cost of addictive gambling in order to have a better appreciation of the results of the game regulation policy. The information report refers to another player in the games: casinos. There are about 200 in France. While they were established in small towns, usually seaside resorts, spas or tourist resorts, recent arrangements now allow them to be established in cities with more than 500,000 inhabitants, as well as the return of gambling clubs to Paris. The establishment of casinos in our territory is, in my view, an important factor, and it is to be hoped that this "metropolization" of the game will not harm smaller cities. I would like to speak in this forum about a local development project. A drilling in Nancy found that the water in its basement was able to treat rheumatism, which allowed the city to launch the "Nancy Spa" project – you were not far from the place concerned, Minister, when the Government met in a seminar in Nancy last July. However, the section of the Act of 12 July 1983 which allowed the temporary opening of a casino in a spa whose status was being recognized was repealed in 2012. It is regrettable that Nancy cannot open a casino, as such an establishment could contribute to the growth and fame of the region. It remains to be hoped that the legislation will evolve again. In conclusion, I stress that, given the sums committed, the channels involved and the economic, social and health impact of the sector, our country must continue to seek a balance. Your information report, the rapporteurs, can only help her in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u32	Didn't you, on the right, privatize family jewels, especially highways?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u33	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u34	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic sector for gambling is almost EUR 45 billion in turnover, more than 3 billion taxes and taxes and tens of thousands of jobs, both direct and indirect; But the world of play is also, in the words of General Washington, "the child of avarice, the brother of iniquity, and the father of evil." In fact, about 850,000 people suffer, to varying degrees, from addiction to gambling, and the sector also leads to risks of money laundering and financing organized crime. This has led to a general principle of prohibition with some derogations, justified by public policy requirements. Our group welcomes the work done within the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, both for the quality of the information report and for the rich evaluation, despite the short delay – eight months – which separated it from the publication of the report. The recommendations of the information report on the harmonization of anti-money-laundering obligations have been followed up and are being implemented or in the process of being implemented. This axis is at the heart of public order concerns and must be kept under constant vigilance – we will return to it. Public health issues must be given special attention, bearing in mind that the number of casual players has increased from 48% to 56% of the population and that the phenomenon of addiction to gambling and its consequences remain poorly known. We encourage the Government to follow the recommendations contained in the information report in order to better identify the problem and to put in place an ambitious plan to prevent this addiction. Nietzsche was ahead of reality when he said, "Every man hides in him a child who wants to play. I would like to draw the Government's attention to this dependency, especially with regard to some young people. The ease of access to games via the Internet blew up the existing safeguards, which better protected young people from the risk of gambling addiction. As for the requirement to prohibit bets on sports events likely to be manipulated, it is now satisfied by the law of 1 March 2017. It requires a deterrent and appropriate sanctions regime. In view of the evolution of the consumption patterns of the games, it is not easy to ensure the balanced development of the different categories of games. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to make choices between keeping games at a loss of speed, possibly under infusion of public money, and accompanying the conversion of the sectors concerned. As a follow-up to the discussions that took place during the review of the 2018 budget, our group wishes to participate in the reflection work on the taxation of gambling and, in particular, on the definition of the tax base. Finally, our group draws the Government's attention to the importance of preparing a comprehensive plan for the renewal of governance and modes of intervention in the regulation of gambling, drawing on the findings of the information report of 8 February 2017, in the light of the fact that online games now account for almost 20 per cent of the turnover of the gambling industry, that the share of casinos has increased from half to one third of this turnover, that the possibilities of opening gaming establishments have been eased and, finally, that the reduction in the number of horse bets, which continues year by year, endangers the equine sector. Minister, the governance and regulation of the sector have broken out between three ministries and one authority, making the goal of global leadership and coherence difficult to achieve. Therefore, the proposals to entrust regulation – i.e. the definition of the status of operations, the scope of exclusive rights and the categories of games allowed – to an inter-ministerial committee and to entrust daily regulation – i.e. point-of-sale approvals, the issue of individual authorisations or experiments – to an independent administrative authority seem interesting to us. They should be studied with a view to rapid implementation. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Our group will remain extremely attentive to the conclusions of future evaluations on this subject. He is obviously ready to participate in the renovation of the governance and taxation of gambling. In conclusion, I particularly thank the rapporteurs for the quality of their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, in the afternoon we learned of the death of two French soldiers of Operation Barkhane, Marshal of the house-master Émilien Mougin and Brigadier-CEO Timothée Dernoncourt, killed in Mali in the explosion of a mine. It happens that our colleague Vincent Ledoux knew one of them personally. He wished to begin his speech by referring to this friendship. Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u36	Madam President, thank you for allowing me to begin my remarks with a tribute to our two young people, Émilien Mougin and Timothy Dernoncourt. It turns out that Gérald Darmanin, who preceded me as a member of Parliament for the tenth northern riding, and I myself knew Timothy well. I spoke to her parents on the phone earlier; You can imagine the very strong emotion that is mine. I had known him very young and had learned his desire to serve in the army, at a time when he encountered some difficulties in his life. The army was his second family. He didn't die for nothing; He died to defend our values against terrorism. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Minister for Action and Public Accounts rise and applaud at length]] Tonight, like you, I am naturally very sad, but I am also very proud of Timothy, of what he was able to achieve in the army. Let us also think about the colleague of these two soldiers who was injured. First of all, on behalf of the IDU Group, I would like to express my appreciation for the remarkable work done by our colleagues, Régis Juanico and Olga Givernet. Our group validates their proposals, which provide an excellent basis for work. The evaluation, which is probably insufficiently implemented by the parliamentarian, must focus primarily on the internal and external public action of the State, but it must also cover other analytical objects such as gambling. Many of the previous speakers reminded me that these games were not ordinary, because money was at stake; One of them referred to Washington and Nietzsche. The information report is all the more interesting as the generalisation of online games calls on the legislator not only about practices and perimeters, but also about consumer protection. They need to know their rights and be protected – I am thinking of the most vulnerable audiences, young people and people who are subject to addictive pathologies. Less than eight years after the opening to competition of horse and sports bets and the authorisation of online poker, it was important for Parliament to evaluate, analyse, diagnose and formulate renewed and concrete proposals in view of the considerable change in the sector, which, prior to the development of digital technologies, had undoubtedly changed little since the creation of the Royal Lottery of France. At the time of the second industrial revolution, beautifully illustrated by the fresco of the Assembly's Hall of the Past, the legislator managed to accompany the technological changes, which were at their own pace. This moment is behind us: from now on, legislators run after technology and must do their best to adapt the rules to the times we live in. First of all, the information report by our two colleagues highlights the shortcomings in the regulation of a sector in the midst of technological change. It brings together two networks, both in parallel and in interaction: the so-called "hardway" proximity network, under the monopoly of the PMU and La Française des jeux, and the online network, that of licensed operators of horse and sports betting on the internet and online poker. The coexistence of these two networks, with greater competition from the online network in certain segments, and the proliferation of institutional players in the regulation of games make the overall policy of the State in this field unreadable. If we do not necessarily want more regulation, but better regulation, we feel that we will have to make an important effort of simplification and clarification to make public action more effective. We certainly need more integrated and coordinated political leadership. This is all the more urgent because technological developments, I repeat, are very rapid. The creation of an inter-ministerial committee under the Prime Minister's authority would enable the State to conduct a comprehensive and homogeneous game policy. The regulation of all "hard" gambling should be entrusted to a single independent administrative authority, which could be ARJEL, the Authority for the regulation of online gambling. Similarly, it would be wise to entrust the same administrative authority with the regulation of other games, in particular games with augmented reality and games based on virtual reality. I myself had introduced a bill to that effect at the time Pokémon Go came out. ARJEL could, at the request of Parliament, make proposals or recommendations enabling the legislator to make informed legislation. The Minister should also reflect on the sector's tax model, because, unlike the majority of its neighbours in the euro area who have regulated their online gambling and betting markets, France has supported its taxation on bets rather than on the gross proceeds of gambling, which, however, is similar to the turnover of operators. So, as I recall, they are often taxed on losses. This situation is today widely criticized by ARJEL and the Court of Auditors, the guardian of public funds, according to which the status quo in taxation "would not only run counter to the objective [...] enshrined in the 2010 law but would also result in a contraction of the taxable base, due to the escape of players from the regulated and taxed French market". Consequently, taxation must be reduced or indexed in a different way, for example on gross income, as proposed by successive Presidents of ARJEL, and the redistribution rate should be capped no longer at 85%, but at around 95%, as in our British neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of fiscal harmonisation at European level, an alignment of our tax model with that of our neighbours would be highly desirable. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I once again welcome the excellence of the work carried out by our two colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u37	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u38	Madam President, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we have met on the initiative of the New Left Group. It is a joy and a pleasure to discuss on the basis of the information report of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee presented by Ms Givernet and Mr Juanico. I know what you have been doing for a long time, Mr Juanico, in the field of sport and on the question of financing sport and games. I welcome the assistance of the other members of the working group, Mrs Do and Mr Louwagie. Person and Poulliat. I have a thought for Mr.Myard, who worked with you, Mr.Juanico, on a first information report, submitted on February 8, 2017. Not only are we discussing this report, but we are monitoring it. Before addressing the concrete proposals contained in the information report, particularly those which have not yet been implemented, and to answer the questions you are going to ask under your monitoring mission, I would like to refer to the previous interventions, which have revolved around three themes. The first theme is privatization, often referred to in negative terms. Mr Corbière, of course, but also a member of the GDR Group, drew a distinction between those who would privatize in disregard of the general interest and those who would not privatize. At the time when I was still only a teenager doing nothing but watching politics on television, I remember that a communist minister had privatized Air France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u39	What were Air France's profits at that time?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u40	I also believe that the Jospin government has been the most privatized since the time of General de Gaulle. Neither Mr Gayssot nor the other communists of his time went against the general interest. The caricature is therefore a little limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u41	Come on, Minister, you're too thin to make such remarks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u42	I refer to the 1999 law, Mr Gayssot having served as minister for five years. Communism has a lively and strong history. In our remarks, we must not give in to caricature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u43	Yet I abstained from quoting Karl Marx and the opium of the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u44	Please, dear colleague, only Mr. Minister has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u45	Another particularly important theme is addiction. Several Members were right to recall this. Yes, it is necessary to fight against all addictions, especially those that crystallize around the games, which it has been reminded that they can cause trouble, trouble, sometimes even worse. Mr. Bazin said the word suicide. Individual cases, caused by over-indebtedness or family difficulties, have been heard. These are situations that we have personally witnessed. [[Smile]] I note, however, that it is very difficult to produce a coherent speech for a few minutes: while cautioning us, some encourage us to support channels that allow us to play and that can give rise to a certain addiction. So, Mr. Bazin, you managed to defend a casino project in your department while regretting that some anti-addiction policies are not sufficiently effective. We observe such intellectual gymnastics with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u46	Buralists can talk to you about addiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u47	Recognize, Mr. Bazin, that there are also over-indebted people, who lose a lot of money, who are banned from casinos and who have sometimes experienced terrible family dramas after attending the playrooms. It will be true in Nancy as it is already elsewhere – and, by saying so, I am not making a judgment in principle on the establishment of a casino in Nancy. I only point out that there is a slight contradiction in your remarks. The rapporteurs raised a number of issues. I recall the objectives that we have all assigned to our public policy on gaming regulation and control: ensuring the integrity, reliability and transparency of gaming operations; prevent fraudulent or criminal activities – several of you have said so, sometimes by criticising this objective, which would give rise to too much control – as well as money laundering and terrorist financing; ensure the balanced and equitable development of the different types of gambling in order to avoid any economic destabilization of the sectors concerned. Of course, nine out of sixteen proposals in the February evaluation report are being implemented or are in the process of being implemented, but, whatever the quality of the work of parliamentarians, I stress that the formulation of proposals by parliamentarians does not in principle imply their approval by the Government. For my part, I am in favour of some of the proposals being the subject of legislative construction or improvement. No doubt a bill on these issues will be proposed to you soon, perhaps to accompany the opening of the capital of La Française des jeux or when we will reflect on the Authority for the regulation of online games. We may come back to that on the occasion of the questions. Other proposals will not receive a favourable opinion from the Government, but we have the right to have divergent views. Proposal No. 3 has been implemented. You suggested developing the activity of professional betting companies residing abroad. In order to satisfy this, we agreed, in October 2017, with the Minister of Agriculture, to waive the 5% cap on the stakes, which had been established by our predecessors. With regard to the acceleration of the processing of applications for authorisation for the experimentation of new casino games or new forms of existing game – a subject mentioned by Mr Ledoux – a simplification of the rules was carried out by decree in November 2016, therefore by the previous government. It consisted of deleting the prior opinion of the Games Advisory Commission for applications for experimentation of new games or new forms of play. The information report also proposes to submit the authorisation to manage a point of sale of La Française des jeux to the results of an administrative investigation. However, as you know, a system of assent of the Minister of the Interior, prior to the authorisation to manage a point of sale of La Française des jeux, has been introduced. We will come back if we speak earlier about the buralists and the antennae of La Française des jeux. Proposal No. 8, which aimed to subject to prior administrative authorisation any changes in the distribution of social capital and the control of companies holding a licence to operate a casino, and proposal No. 14, which aimed to prohibit the taking of bets on sports competitions likely to be manipulated, were met by two recent laws, respectively the February 2017 law – dating back to the time when Mr Juanico and Mr Myard submitted their information report – on the status of Paris and metropolitan development, and the March 2017 law, which was barely later, aimed at preserving the ethics of sport, strengthening the regulation and transparency of professional sport and improving the competitiveness of clubs, notably defended by Mr Kanner and Mr Braillard. These proposals have already been reflected in laws or decrees. I now turn to the seven proposals that have not yet been implemented and on which I believe it is important to give the Government's opinion. Firstly, you propose to reconsider the separation of the masses from the stakes of the horse bets in hard and online, subject to the introduction of accompanying measures guaranteeing competition. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the PMU is taking steps before the Autorité de la concurrence and is drawing closer to its online competitors to reach an agreement with them. As part of parliamentary scrutiny or before the committee, I would be happy to answer your questions on the follow-up to this request to the Autorité de la concurrence. Second, you suggest extending the file of the game bans to the physical sales outlets network of the PMU and La Française des jeux. I am pleased to confirm the information contained in your report: the computerization of the file, a prerequisite for this extension, is progressing towards deployment by the end of the first half of 2018, as confirmed by the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. I would add that the proposal to adapt the information expected from the application of the business relationship regime to the resources actually available to casinos seems to me to be of common sense. Combating this scourge does not mean that anti-money laundering inspections can be carried out without discernment of any kind. I consider, Mr Blanchet, that TRACFIN is doing a very important job in an environment that can be a problem, not because of the personality of casino managers, but because it is money and we all know the possibility of laundering. I hear what you have said and, without giving specific instructions to a quasi-independent authority, although it is my responsibility, I consider that, within the general framework of a trust society, officials will have to understand that they must continue their work against money laundering, but conduct it with discernment. I repeat: I have heard your proposal in this regard. Other suggestions, however, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, seem to me to call for more reservations. This may be the subject of our subsequent discussions. First, you propose to submit the game operations to the automated reading of an identity document in order to ensure that the players are major in the points of sale of the PMU and La Française des jeux, or even in the buralists. In this connection, I have heard Mr Corbière's remark: minors can go to places where tobacco and other products are sold that, even if not prohibited, are likely to cause addiction, and whose public health policies try to curb the spread. That's a point of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u48	One more!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u49	I welcome the proposal, although it seems technically difficult to implement. This may need to be considered, while at the same time ensuring that the possibility of playing is not delayed. We all know that some games, especially those related to horse racing, which you also ask to encourage, take place in a certain speed. However, the sale of gambling products to minors should be avoided. We can think, why not, about the obligation to play with identity papers. We will probably have an opportunity to come back to this either on questions or when we look at the next bill. Secondly, you propose to substitute the gross proceeds of games for the bets as the tax base on online poker and, more broadly, to study this substitution for all the levies on gambling. However, several arguments may be opposed to this substitution of base, starting with the risk of encouraging operators to increase the return rate to the player, which, for the moment, has an addictive effect. Even if, I understand, your information report does not correlate between the two factors, it seems intuitive that the more the return to the players increases, the greater their addiction can be. This is an old question, Mr Juanico, you know it very well. It has been debated under other governments. I therefore propose that we consider it. I don't close the door, but I don't give you an agreement in principle either. I would be in favour of any study by Parliament, the Government or any other authority that could help us avoid too much addiction on the part of the players. Third, in terms of governance, you suggest the creation of an interdepartmental committee responsible for defining public policy on gambling. I would point out, as Mrs El Haïry has done in particular, that the game, like other subjects, is the responsibility of several ministries: the budget, the interior, agriculture, health, sports and the economy. For my part, I am not in favour of an interdepartmental policy as such. The creation of such a committee seems superfate to me as the exchanges of work between the ministries – I can testify personally – are regular. I had the opportunity to measure it in other functions: for having worked at the Ministry of Sport, I could observe, for example, that the horse industry is divided between several ministries, which does not prevent it from being effective, when the public authorities are interested in it. Moreover, despite the inter-ministerial nature of this policy, it needs to be transformed at present. I have recently proposed to the Minister for Agriculture, whose answer I am awaiting, that Jean Arthuis should work in general on the reconstruction of the horse-drawn sector. This good man, of whom everyone here knows the qualities he has brought to the performance of his distinguished previous or present functions, could enlighten us. He would be at your disposal, if his name were finally retained. Still in the area of governance, I share the view that the separation of the modes of intervention of regulation is obsolete and unreactive. You propose to entrust the regulation of gambling to a single independent administrative authority, which would carry out the work of both ARJEL and the Ministry of Public Accounts, particularly the management of the budget, several times mentioned in the information report. I hear your proposal. I hope that we will consider this, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, perhaps when the capital is opened up, or even when La Française des jeux is privatized. If we were to come back to you with a gambling bill, we could also think about entrusting the regulation of gambling to this single independent administrative authority, provided that the government and the legislator, who will amend the bill, set important objectives for it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I have answered precisely the questions raised in this information report as well as in the discussion. I am of course at your disposal to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u50	We come to the questions. The first of these was put forward by Mr Régis Juanico, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u51	Minister, that will allow me to react to your announcements. We will come back to some of them during the follow-up work that the rapporteurs of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, Olga Givernet and I, will continue to do with the Government. I have noted your openness on the issue of single regulation. Perhaps this is the most important point in the information report. I am not sure that this question is totally linked to the opening of the capital of La Française des jeux. The PACTE Bill – Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation – is emerging. We will see if it includes a component on the divestiture of the State's holdings in this undertaking. In any event, I would like to dissociate the two questions to move forward in the reflection. All the political groups that spoke at the rostrum this evening stressed the need for a powerful and coherent regulation of gambling, in terms of public order and the protection of our fellow citizens – the idea has come back regularly. Regulatory reform is needed, if only because of the rapid technological developments affecting the sector. I believe that a legislative initiative, whether from the Government or parliamentarians, is necessary eight years after the law of 12 May 2010.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u52	Probably.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u53	We will see in April – when the announcements are made – whether the PACTE bill includes divestitures of assets in public companies such as La Française des jeux. In this regard, the situation will not be the same depending on whether the State's shareholding in the company's capital increases from 72 per cent to 30 per cent or 52 per cent. There is a big difference in both situations. I'd like you to say a word about it. I said earlier: The French Games brings today 20 million euros to the foundations for sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u54	Mr President, your speech must not exceed two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u55	It provides 80 per cent of the funds of the National Centre for Sport Development. He is also the first financer of sport for all. Of course, the profitability requirement of a private shareholder will be different from that of the public shareholder.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u56	The Minister has the floor. You too have two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u57	I'll be even faster, if Mr. Juanico will allow me. I thank him for noting some openings to the proposals contained in the information report, particularly with regard to regulation. We are working on it independently of the drafting of the PACTE bill and the opening of the capital of La Française des jeux, but we could eventually include this provision in the law at the same time. I think like you, the time has come to think about it, eight years after the law of May 12, 2010. Earlier, on the sidelines of a meeting of the Finance Committee, I spoke to Mr Woerth, who was a minister at the time of the drafting of the law and who told me that perhaps it was necessary to change. Between us we are told that the previous government should have done so, but I am glad that this work is before us. Everyone knows that we are thinking about opening up the capital of La Française des jeux, although we have not made any announcement in this regard. I would therefore like, Mr Juanico, to prevent your frustration, even if I believe it is above all rhetorical. In any event, I have taken note of your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u58	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u59	In my first speech, Minister, I referred to some of the guidelines of the information report that I felt were not going far enough or that sometimes went in the wrong direction, in view of the objective of fighting this "sigh of the oppressed creature", this "opium of the people". But there is a subject that I have not addressed, because it is simply missing from this information report: I can talk about the tax evasion practiced by certain gaming operators, either directly or through their subsidiaries. Perhaps I will be told that this is not the purpose of the process initiated in October 2015, which leads us to this discussion. I note, however, that this information report is very seriously concerned – and, perhaps, with some empathy – with the concerns of private operators, including anything that could harm the good health of their business. This shows that French taxation is too heavy, the base is poorly calculated and that casinos are being asked for a little too much; In addition to these topics, advertising is also the subject of advertising. In other words, it's never good enough. While they were visibly sensitive to the requests of private operators, I am surprised that the rapporteurs did not pay the same attention to the tax practices of these companies, in other words, to their willingness to contribute to the general interest by participating with pleasure in the national effort. The information report does not mention the existence, possible or proven, of questionable tax practices. Better yet, the issue is not even raised. However, the Court of Auditors' report, on which the Rapporteurs of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee supported each other, contains Annex 10, entitled "The paradises of sports betting". Of course, the Court of Auditors' report does not refer at any time to its own annex, and one wonders why and how it was attached to the document, but it has at least the merit of existence. I wonder why the information report does not address this issue. Mr Minister, are online gambling operators so attached to the good respect of our tax administration that at no point in the report is there any mention of possible breaches of its rules?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u61	Mr Corbière, you will understand that my respect for the principle of the separation of powers and for Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u62	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u63	...is preventing me from commenting on the content of the information report, and I will not comment on the Court of Auditors' report. Moreover, you raise a perfectly legitimate question, pointing out that online gambling operators are, for many, domiciled abroad, especially in countries likely to allow optimisation or even tax evasion...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u65	... these two notions must also be distinguished. In this respect, the taxing of bets, rather than the gross proceeds of gambling, helps to combat optimisation or tax evasion. The practice of taxing at the time of betting in France – I am not talking about activities outside our country – is the best guarantee that the tax administration can provide on the fact that the player pays a fair tax, corresponding to the amounts committed. For the rest, the actions of the companies you refer to must remain within the broader framework of the fight against corporate fraud. I proposed that your group come to meet with me pending consideration of the anti-fraud bill. I pointed out that the communists, including Senator Eric Bocquet, had reported very important advances. Indeed, we are fighting very hard against tax evasion. In this context, Mr Corbière, we will be able to determine whether certain legislative provisions should be applied against any company that could be "suspected", to use a word that has been used, to resort to tax evasion – the aim being to combat this scourge. In any event, taxing bets seems to be the best guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u66	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u67	Minister, I would like to give you an appointment on March 8, the date of our group's parliamentary "niche," which will be an opportunity to talk about tax havens and tax fraud, and to make proposals to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u68	Yes, through a text by Fabien Roussel!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u69	My question concerns the plan to privatize La Française des jeux – you're going to say that I'm breaking the nail, but it's a topical issue – which should be reflected in the future PACTE bill, which will be presented shortly. Clearly, this privatization would be contrary to the financial interests of the State, to the urgent need to combat tax fraud and money-laundering, and would undermine our policy of preventing addictions and protecting minors from gambling. The withdrawal of the national capital of La Française from the games will cause at least collateral damage, which it seems to me essential to stress here: it will compromise the sustainability of the financial resources of the National Centre for the Development of Sport, the CNDS. Indeed, this establishment is financed mainly by a levy on the revenues of La Française des jeux and on bets. It is even its main financial resource, in front of the products on television rights collected – since you like to quote communist ministers – under the so-called "Buffet" tax. This levy on La Française des jeux contributes 80% of the CNDS budget: what will become of the CNDS if La Française des jeux is privatized and this tax, unfair to competition, disappears? Its budget has already melted down during the last finance law, from 270 million euros to 133 million euros, leaving this tool to promote local sports exsangued. In fact, when the budget was examined, Members of the GDR Group had stated that the weakening of the CNDS budget could be a way of preparing for the privatisation of La Française des jeux, evidencing it from its obligations to finance local sports. Unfortunately, Minister, you are right: this privatization will increase the weakening of sport policy for all. By extension, this choice raises the issue of the Government's sport policy. In the face of the privatization of La Française des jeux, how does the Government intend to strengthen the resources of the CNDS? What will be the financing model for local sports if La Française des jeux no longer finances the CNDS? It is not enough to get the Olympic Games, if it is to destroy a building that is our pride: the world of associative sport and its thousands of volunteers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u70	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u71	Mr President, you are afraid that if La Française des jeux is privatized, there will be fewer resources allocated to sport for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u72	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u73	I understand that, like Mr. Corbière, we are opposed to the principle of the game, which is not your case, Mr. Lecoq. However, the game has positive aspects, since part of its product, through an affected tax, directly finances the National Centre for the Development of Sport and, consequently, part of the sports equipment, whether or not it is nearby. I would point out that the CNDS is financing some of the federations and events, but also major equipment. Even if there were privatization – as we have seen for other public policies – this would not change anything: we would keep the tax allocated to the National Centre for Sport Development. There is therefore no cause-and-effect relationship in this matter. On the other hand, you rightly noted that the finance bill reduced CNDS appropriations, but you did not have the honesty to acknowledge that we compensated for the missing appropriations under the amending finance bill. We have also opened a line of appropriations for the Olympic and Paralympic Games, which will allow – we are discussing it with the Minister of Sport – to finance local sports facilities for this competition – Mr Castex, the interdepartmental delegate for these games, is working on it. Finally – Mr Juanico knows the subject just as well, if not better than I – we will one day have to ask ourselves the question of the financing of sports equipment, and whether it would be desirable to decentralise it. In fact, when I was in charge of the CNDS, at the Ministry of Sports, this establishment financed large equipment, which was very credit-intensive and, in proportion, a relatively small number of local equipment which, however, seems to me to be at the heart of its mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u74	We come to the questions of the two speakers of the La République group on the move. Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u75	Minister, Decree No. 2007-728 of 7 May 2007 on the organisation and operation of sports prognosis games states: "Plays of sports betting and prognosis cannot be sold to minors, even emancipated ones. Thus, legally authorized gambling operators are required to prevent the participation of minors in the gambling or gambling activities they offer. They cannot finance the organisation or sponsor the holding of events specifically for minors. Yet, according to many studies, the share of minors involved in gambling continues to increase. In fact, one third of minors aged between 15 and 17 are involved in gambling each year; Almost 33 per cent of minors were reported to have played in 2017. Studies by the Court of Auditors, the Games Observatory and the National Institute for Prevention and Education for Health reveal alarming figures regarding the practices of minors. Among this category of players, 11% are considered to have a problematic practice. This proportion is twice as high as that of adult players. These worrisome results call for a strengthening of the prevention and prohibition system. Dependence on gambling has remained an unknown phenomenon, poorly studied and far removed from public health concerns. However, in recent years, different research and surveys have made it possible to better identify problematic behaviour and the risks of addiction, in particular in connection with the rapid development of new forms and places of play on the Internet. Undoubtedly, the legislation has been able to adapt to this issue. Nevertheless, the practice remains too flexible and promotes the addiction of our children to these games that are not intended for them. Mr Minister, would it be possible – I understand, listening to you, that this was the case – as advocated in the information report of the evaluation and control committee on gambling, to submit the gaming operations at the PMU and La Française des jeux points of sale to the automated reading of an identity document – like what is happening in casinos – in order to ensure that players are major?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u77	Mr Poulliat, I hear your intention, which is justified. I also understand that almost a third of the miners would have played in the last year. I also noted that addiction – the effects of which are known to be extremely negative – was all the more pronounced as we began to play young. We must, therefore, collectively ensure that the ban on minors from using these games is effective. This applies, in particular, to any person who can sell or actually sell games. We know that this ban is not being complied with at the present time. The first step is to empower parents. Everyone can see that some parents send their child, their teenager, buy these games, sometimes accompany them and make them a fun activity, which is not to be done. In addition, we could enforce this prohibition by requesting the presentation of identity documents. We need to find ways to make the criminalization of the sale of games to minors effective, without imposing excessive burdens on traders. The latter should remind them of these basic rules. To my knowledge, there is no sanction for the prohibition in force. This is a problem that deserves our attention, especially that of traders and operators. For my part, I am not in favour of automated reading of an identity document. It is a very complicated system – I understand that in some Nordic countries it took ten years to equip all the terminals and shops. On the other hand, the strengthening of sanctions, the introduction of random checks and the systematic demand for the presentation of identity documents can provide avenues for reflection, which were launched by the information report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u78	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u79	Minister, you know my interest in the equine sector. I asked you, when it was decided to raise the price of tobacco, to ask you what your intentions were in this regard. However, on February 2, 2018, you signed a memorandum of understanding with the confederation of the Buralists. The FDJ states – rightly – that it is a major supporter of the historical and reference network of bars-tobacco-presses. In 2015, this was true since, of 25,000 tobacco offices, 21,500 were sales outlets of the FDJ, and every buralist received from La Française 21000 euros of remuneration. For its part, the PMU, which has only 13,000 outlets, was able to pay to each of them only 11,000 euros. The information report notes that horse bets fall much more in the 9,000 points of sale that also market sports bets than in the 4000 points of sale dedicated exclusively to horse bets. The successive reports of the Court of Auditors and the Parliament have made the same observation: the balanced and equitable development of the different types of games, which is one of the four objectives of the Act of 12 May 2010, is now confronted with a reality, namely that the FDJ has very positive results as the results of the PMU fall. I agree, minister, that the industry must adapt and be challenged. I have just heard that you are thinking of Jean Arthuis to help and guide her in developing the necessary reforms, which I think is a very good thing. But it must also be admitted that the FDJ has had a very effective strategy, and that you are helping it. Every time we help the buralists and give them an extra reward, their propensity to push the players towards more lucrative games can only increase. I know you inherited this system. I was recently elected chair of the study group of our assembly dedicated to the horse and have been questioned on numerous occasions; Each time, I said that I was counting on the Government to put things back in place and that I was absolutely sure that it would deploy a coherent game policy, ensuring in particular a balanced remuneration of points of sale between La Française des jeux and the PMU. Could you clarify your intentions with regard to unified regulation of games?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u80	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u81	I agree with what you are saying: there is a need for a coherent policy on gambling. The horse industry needs to be restructured – in the field of games, but not just. The changes must also concern equestrian clubs, racetracks – the issue of tax on racetracks is very interesting – and relations with local authorities. The leaders of this sector, most of whom I have met since I was a minister, are aware of the need for transformation. Racing companies are also the first to try to understand this transformation and to wish it. The PMU will have a new boss, and with Stéphane Travert we will be leading a mission on the industry. It seems to me that the figures you have quoted are not entirely those of the information report, but I would not like to get into this debate between parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u82	I took them in the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u83	You compare the FDJ, which has a link with the buralists who would be better sellers or in any case better promoters, with the PMU. There's real and fake, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u84	We have to look at the percentage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u85	I can hear you. Buralists face a particular situation, with the closure of tobacco offices beginning many years ago and affecting many of them. Border competition, rising tobacco prices and rising parallel sales have played a role in these disappearances, but they are not the only causes. They also faced the same difficulties as all local businesses, particularly in rural areas. The protocol we signed does not only concern La Française des jeux. The latter had unacceptable practices, such as renting furniture to the buralists. That seemed absurd to me, and I asked Mrs. Pallez to stop this practice. Similarly, the return rate for ruralists no longer seemed normal to me, since the FDJ is not limited to the Lotto and has a number of scratching games. The Buralists are turning into local traders, and I am very pleased that the new president of the National Confederation of Buralists has accepted this change. Buralists will no longer simply be salesmen of tobacco and games. We must accompany this transformation of the profession of buralist. In the future, the Buralists may do a work of public service, of accompaniment of the population and of different traders, less dependent on tobacco and games. You are right to say that I inherited the current system, but my predecessors have made arrangements to try to maintain equal treatment between the PMU and the FDJ, notably by prohibiting live games of sports betting in cafes or tobacco offices, these games being present on the internet. In general, there is, you are right on this point, a coherent policy of games. As far as the equine sector is concerned, I count your study group very much, and I congratulate you on your election; Before that, I had had extensive discussions with Bernard Gérard, MP during the previous legislature. The north of France has many racetracks, and I am very attached, like the whole region, to the horse. I believe you will be reassured by our words and by our joint work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u86	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u87	As the quality of the work done by the two rapporteurs shows, gambling has been growing strongly in recent years. The French are playing more and more. This phenomenon is all the more worrying because it sometimes combines with other addictions such as tobacco and alcohol. Apart from a scientific study on the subject, the information report envisages few solutions. Of course, scientific knowledge of gambling dependence is an indispensable step in tackling the problem, but it cannot be the only one. I have the impression that, as usual in France, we simply tax what we do not like, calling it an effective policy. In this case, the increase in the CSG hits casinos with lower cash flow than is believed. Of the 200 French casinos, many are in difficult situations. This increase therefore threatens their sustainability, as they are indispensable assets of tourism and the revitalization of certain rural territories. In addition, it will have no impact on the quality of the game, which ultimately determines how the game is consumed in a responsible and healthy manner. My question is therefore: in a context of increasing problematic addictions, what accompaniments do you envisage to stem these often dramatic situations?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u89	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u90	I know your constituency, MP, and the economic interest of casinos in the Picardy Coast. You deplore the increase of the CSG for the legal persons that are casinos, a subject already mentioned by your colleagues earlier. Some of the 200 casinos belong to large groups, led by big business leaders whose work I would not underestimate – very important, especially in terms of economic recovery, for some territories. It is the independent casinos that are experiencing the most difficulties due to the increase in the CSG – we discussed this issue during the review of the 2018 Finance Bill. We will not go back to this provision, which is consistent with the Government's policy. It would not be intuitive to exclude casinos from the CSG's increase, but we hear the issue of casino managers, whose job I do not underestimate, nor the risk-taking, nor the difficulty of the job. Together with the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, we are considering simplifying their economic model and the possibility of guaranteeing this activity, without creating an exceptional regime. Your next question was about addiction problems. There lies all the difficulty of having a casino in its territory: it is both a magnificent place of economic activity, which sometimes offers shows and which plays a role as social animator of a territory, but it is also an establishment that generates induced effects. Casino managers are also the first to fight very strongly against addictions, even if one knows perverse effects for everyone. It seems normal to strengthen the fight against addictions. From this perspective, it is not necessary to lower the guard on requests for identity documents at the entrance of casinos, as people may be prohibited from entering or be accompanied, by decision of the Ministry of the Interior. It is normal that the single regulatory authority and the management of the budget continue to work with the entire gaming operators, whether online or not, to highlight the difficulties associated with a form of addiction, especially for minors, which are the most problematic cases today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u91	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Garcia, for the MODEM and related groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u92	Minister, teenagers are two to four times more likely to develop gambling addiction than adults. According to a 2014 investigation, a minor aged between 15 and 17 years in three played at least once in a gambling game; 7% to 8% of young people would even be dependent on these gambling, as we know this addiction leads to multiple disorders, sometimes to depression, and has an impact on school outcomes. The segment most sensitive to this offence is sports betting. Inspections showed in 2016 that 78% of La Française des jeux's 31,000 outlets did not comply with the ban on sale to minors. The FDJ therefore decided to launch a specific plan in March 2017, which appears to be bearing fruit, as the compliance rate has increased by 15 points since that date and now stands at 37% instead of 22%. However, this remains insufficient. Does the Government envisage specific measures to require retailers, under penalty, to ask players for identification, if they have doubts about their age, as provided for in the regulations prohibiting the sale of alcohol and tobacco to minors? I ask you this question, even if you have already answered it. The Autorité de régulation des jeux en ligne has, of course, put in place a mandatory age verification system on authorized sites – based on the provision of identity documents and a bank identity statement – but the system can be circumvented since three months after the liberalisation of the online gambling market in 2010, already 8% of teenagers aged 12 to 17 had tried to play online. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Minister, what about the protection of minors for online games?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u94	Mr Garcia, we are not going to go back to the accompanying measures to be taken; the legislator will undoubtedly materialize these prohibitions with the Ministry of the Interior and ourselves. You talk more specifically about online games and refer to the three-month period during which a person can open an account to play and must send an identity paper. Minors can no longer play after this delay – unless they produce a false document, but they enter into a more complicated domain – but they can repeat account openings using different identities. This is an important problem, and I propose that parliamentarians, in particular you and the rapporteurs, shorten this deadline. We can't delete it, because online gaming operators need it, but we could at least cut it by half. This would be a first step towards limiting the dependence of minors, attracted by the Internet, who offer a system that is more playful and less controlled than physical play. This proposal could be included in a bill that we would introduce to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u95	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Naegelen, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u96	France has about 200 casinos, which generate 15,000 direct jobs and 30,000 indirect and seasonal jobs. In the Vosges, and especially in my constituency, there are no fewer than three establishments, run by three different groups, which are established, which participate positively in the development of our local economy and in our attractiveness, and which contribute to associative and cultural assistance. These are important economic players, collecting levies on the gross proceeds of gambling for the benefit of the State and the municipalities, representing a total of about €1.22 billion for the last financial year. It is a very fragmented sector, governed by multiple regulators and regulatory authorities, and has no public policy that allows for a vision for the future. For casinos, this glaring gap prevents operators and local authorities from jointly building balanced development projects in the long term in the face of often aggressive competition. A fundamental political reflection on gambling has become necessary, Minister, and it has been discussed at length. I will not quote Nietzsche or Washington, but rather commend the work of Marie-George Buffet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u98	Its activities in 1999 and 2000 made it possible to finance, in part, amateur sport. A reflection is now needed, and we propose to organize real general states of gambling, which would outline the broad lines of a national policy. These general states would address, among other issues, the return of the game circles to Paris, the opening of casinos outside thermal cities, the extension of the range of online games and the modification of the ownership of La Française des jeux, as proposed in the information report. In conclusion, Minister, what concrete follow-up do you intend to reserve to the information report of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee on the evaluation of the regulation of gambling? Above all, how long do you intend to take action?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u99	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u100	Mr Naegelen, I think I have partly answered your questions in the context of my speech in the rostrum and my previous replies, in particular by announcing, on behalf of the Government, my intention to repeat or supplement certain proposals of the excellent parliamentary work carried out by your colleagues here and by others who preceded them. I don't know if we need to hold general statements of online games and games of chance. We will discuss this during the review of the PACTE bill, if the Government confirms, however, the opening of the capital of La Française des jeux. What is certain, at least, is that we will be able to do important work on this in a bill, which Mr. Garcia is right to invite me to introduce, or failing to discuss the evolution of the gaming sector from a legistic point of view. You are right, Mr Naegelen, to recall Mrs Buffet's work on the development of sport, which is based on the taxation of sports betting and television rights. It could also be recalled that President Woerth, who, when he was Minister of Budget, Public Accounts, Public Service and State Reform, had introduced a bill on opening up to competition and regulating the online gambling sector. Of course, that was eight years ago, which is now a little distant. Since then, the techniques have evolved and the European authorities themselves have looked at the coherence of our policy in this area. Perhaps we will not have general states of gambling, but important parliamentary work will have to be done on the subject, in which civil society and the professional community will have to be involved. It will have to take into account the territorial consequences of these games and allow to understand their technical developments and the stakes of their regulation. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you suggest to the Prime Minister that a bill be tabled to that effect in the coming months – in any case during the quinquennium – aimed at updating our legislative arsenal in order to accompany an expanding economic sector that creates wealth, particularly for the sport sector, to enable regulation and to understand the changes that France must debate in order to determine whether it accepts them or not. [[Smile]] So we will not hold any general states of gambling. I hope I don't disappoint you, Mr. Naegelen. You played and you lost, but you'll probably be able to come back in the second week.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u101	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u102	Minister, without going into the details of a tax that can be described as complex, I would like to ask you about the distribution of casino revenues. At present, if we stick to the big masses, we can say that the revenues – called "gross proceeds from gambling" – from the operation of casinos in France are distributed among the owners, who receive 45%, and the public authorities, who receive the remaining 55%. The latter share is distributed among state funds, up to 40%, and the municipality where the casino is located, which must be satisfied by 15% at best. It is on this distribution, you understand, that I call your attention. First of all, it is increasingly a question of assigning to the communities of communes or agglomerations tomorrow what is now the responsibility of the communes. It is a movement inscribed in the air of time: it does not happen one day without the state stripping the communes of their powers and prerogatives for the benefit of greater than they and more distant from the citizens, as if the public authorities of yesterday and today were wary of everything that is close to the ordinary citizens – in a word, the people. Let the surrounding municipalities benefit from the income of the one hosting a casino, why not? But, in this case, why not review the key to the distribution of revenue between the state and local authorities? We could, for example, reverse the proportions and allocate 40 per cent of the revenue to local authorities and 15 per cent to the State, or make an honest and equitable distribution at parity, which would be painless for the taxpayer and would be a fine manna for those who are in charge, as closely as possible, of the services expected by all our citizens. [[Smile]] I said, in the introduction to my remarks, that the air of time is centralizing. Some people believe, outside Paris, there is no salvation. I give you a pole, minister, so that you can make them lie and prove to them that sometimes the wheel turns. Are you ready, Minister, to take this bet? For our communes, to which I know you attached, it would be the jackpot. So, Mr. Minister, what's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u103	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u104	[[Smile]] I'll tell you what's going on, Mrs. Ménard. I don't share your analysis. The most recent figures available to me, from the Budget Directorate, date back to 2016. In that year, the casinos brought back 719 million euros to the State and received a levy for the benefit of the communes of 255 million euros. Moreover, you raise the increasing allocation of these revenues to the intercommunities and not only to the municipality hosting the casino. This development is nevertheless of interest, in addition to the desire that drives us all to kill the communes, which we would not by definition like. In this connection, I believe that the representatives of the people – of whom you are now a member – have contributed to the affirmation of intercommunality, which can therefore be considered, in accordance with the principles of representative democracy, that the majority of the people wanted it to take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u105	No, we didn't ask him for his opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u106	Irrespective of these considerations, one can think that if a municipality hosts a casino – this was the case in Lille, with the European metropolis of Lille – it is because of the tourist basin of which it is the centre. The city alone probably wouldn't have seen him move in. Besides, not all the people who play the casino come from the municipality concerned – Béziers, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u107	Random!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u108	I am content to take an example, of which I imagine he explains in part your question, Mrs Ménard. Even if you are a Member of Parliament for the nation, I imagine that your question was not exclusively in the general interest, to which I have no doubt that you are attached. If therefore a casino is located in Béziers, it is likely that residents of nearby municipalities will play there. It therefore seems normal that they should benefit from part of its revenue, according to a distribution key which can indeed be debated. I do not think that the State is completely delusional, since it is responsible for regulating, controlling and monitoring the activities of casinos, as a result of which there are some costs that are not borne by local authorities. They also benefit from the income from the residence tax levied on hotels and shows, the casino usually hosting activities other than games. In itself, your question is not without interest, Mrs Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u109	By the way, I doubt there's a casino in Béziers! The nearest one is in Valras-Plage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u110	This was just an example, rapporteur! More seriously, it seems necessary to discuss the key to the distribution of casino revenues and to study it more finely. It's possible the account isn't there, Mrs. Ménard. Having said that, it does not seem desirable to reverse the proportions in force, because the burdens on the municipalities and the intercommunalities resulting from this activity – which, as I said, requires a public expenditure intended to monitor, regulate and control it – are not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u111	The debate on the information report of the Public Policy Review and Control Committee on the implementation of the conclusions of the information report of 8 February 2017 on the evaluation of the regulation of gambling is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-21-O1149.u112	Next sitting, tomorrow, Thursday, 22 February, at 9:30 p.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
