ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European motion for a resolution on the first mobility package, presented by the European Commission on 31 May 2017 (point 658, 681).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, the President of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives of the European Commission announced last spring under the label "Europe on the move" aim to consolidate the regulatory framework for European road transport. The legitimate and indispensable objective is twofold: to deepen the integration of the European road transport market and to make the functioning of this market more in line with the values of the European Union, in particular economic and social progress and the protection of the environment. The stakes of the first mobility package, which is the subject of the motion for a resolution before us, are therefore not only technical, legal or strictly economic. They are deeply political, in the noble sense of the term The text of this resolution was adopted unanimously by the Committee on European Affairs. We should therefore particularly thank our rapporteur, Damien Pichereau, and congratulate us collectively on the work that has been done. The content of the resolution and of the debates which took place in committee makes it possible to establish a common conviction: the liberalisation of road transport within the Union must not be too fast, at the risk of being to the detriment of social Europe and environmental quality. Europe must first be able to harmonise from the top the level of social protection of transport professionals before increasing market integration. To this end, the motion for a resolution clearly supports the position of the French Government on the application of the rules on secondment. These rules must apply from the start of the transport operation and not only after three days, as proposed by the European Commission. On the other hand, the Commission's proposals tend to over-encourage the use of cabotage. However, France is the most "caboté" country in the Union. This leads to a significant destabilization of French road transport companies, at the expense of worker protection. To accept that cabotage can be practised without conditions is to encourage circumvention of our social protection requirements in the name of a competitive discount. Europe is not ready for full liberalisation of cabotage. It will be so when the working and living conditions of the road hauliers converge to a decent level, for example when weekly rest is no longer taken in the cab of the vehicle and when the driver's right to a return home at least every three weeks is effective. The Union must also set ambitious environmental standards that States will be able to enforce. In this respect, we share the Commission's desire to advance the effectiveness of the polluter-pays principle. Changing the price of road infrastructure according to the environmental consequences of road use is the best way to encourage environmentally responsible road transport. Integrate negative externalities into the cost of transport is therefore the horizon to be set. However, in order not to create tension among the Member States, they must be given sufficient room for manoeuvre to achieve this objective. This is also the spirit of the directive on the taxation of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures. A directive sets the objectives to be achieved but leaves some freedom for states to implement it, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. In this case, States must be able to adapt the tax arrangements to the characteristics of their territories. The decongestion of urban areas and the opening up of rural or mountain areas are parameters that States must take into account in developing the most effective tax tools. Indeed, the eco-responsibility of transport is also a matter of spatial planning. In conclusion, the evolution of the rules on access to the transport market, the strengthening of the social protection of drivers and the integration of negative externalities at the cost of infrastructure use therefore decline not only the roadmap proposed by the Commission for "Europe on the move", but also indicate the direction of Europe that we are building: a European Union that is more protective of its workers and more environmentally friendly. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The liberalisation of economic activities must therefore follow, not precede, the social and environmental objectives which are those of the European peoples. Perhaps this is simply the famous idea of regulation. That is, in any case, the meaning of our resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u4	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the first Mobility Package was presented by the European Commission on 31 May. It is moving towards better regulation of road transport in the countries of the European Union. As we know, the question is sensitive. Too many French companies in this sector suffer from unfair competition from other countries with lower labour costs, lower taxes and lower standards. It must be honest to say that if the Mobility package goes in the right direction, it will not solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u7	The Republican Group can only endorse the three main guidelines of the European Commission's text. First of all, the fight against pollution. Several recommendations will limit greenhouse gas emissions, such as monitoring CO emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. Unlike passenger cars, trucks and buses have so far not been certified for emissions. The Mobility package, as a follow-up to the European Regulation, addresses this anomaly. Secondly, the fight against unfair competition. The measure to combat "letterbox companies" was approved by all. It is not acceptable for companies to open fictitious subsidiaries in countries where they have no activity to benefit from cheaper labour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u9	Finally, economic competitiveness and fluidity. Several measures contribute to this, such as the European-wide interoperability of toll systems and the incentive for Member States to reduce their heavy goods vehicle tax rates. We therefore share these three broad guidelines. However, this Mobility package is not fully satisfactory. With regard to the amendment of the Eurovignette Directive, we do not share the desire to impose the toll system at the expense of the "right of use" which many States consider to be more flexible and less expensive. On the other hand, we regret that the only measures to combat the saturation of communication lines are fiscal in nature with the introduction of congestion charges and the introduction of overburdens. There are many other avenues to explore, other than taxation. I am thinking of intermodality and vehicles of the future. Finally, with regard to cabotage, the European Commission's proposal is not appropriate. It aims to allow an unlimited number of cabotage within five days of international transport. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u10	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u11	We agree with the rapporteur's proposals to set a cabotage period of only three days, a maximum number of cabotages possible and a period of failure between two transports. In my personal capacity, I would not be shocked that this deficiency is accompanied by the obligation to return to the country of the vehicle concerned. I would add that strict rules are not enough. They are nothing if the offences cannot be found and punished. That is why we need to support the deployment of intelligent and geo-localized tachographs, which will facilitate controls. With regard to the harmonisation of rules on light commercial vehicles, we would have liked the Mobility package to go much further. We would have appreciated common rules on secondment, cabling, cabin rest and driving time. Obviously, we will have to go back to the subject. On the social side, we agree with the proposed measures, such as the ban on taking weekly rest in the cab of his truck. This is an old problem, which I know well for following it in a commune in my Jura department. Foreign drivers spent two days in their trucks in the middle of a village without taking advantage of local attractions or shops. It was unworthy first of all for those who killed time, away from their families. This generated some annoyance in the commune. And of course, it was absolutely unfair to French companies. This brings us to the question of posted workers. The European Commission proposes that the secondment rules apply to road hauliers as soon as a driver has spent more than three days in a country or has carried out a cabotage operation there. This solution is necessarily transitory. It will be necessary to move towards a single European statute for mobile workers, which is much less burdensome for companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group broadly supports this proposal for a European resolution on the first mobility package. This is only a first step on the way to a fair and fair competition that is still very long, but it is done in the right direction. That is why we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u12	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if the Mobility package discussed at the European Commission presents useful progress in structuring the road sector, such as the desire to regulate the use of light commercial vehicles, the introduction of a polluter-pays principle or the fight against "letter-box companies", which is a major priority in restoring a market balance based on undistorted competition, there are still some measures that are not going far enough or are worrying. That is what leads us today to react by taking a decision on the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague Damien Pichereau. France must defend healthy and fair competition. We cannot accept regressions from existing law. If free movement, which is the very essence of the European Union, must be preserved, it must be based on rules that do not compromise competition, the working conditions of road drivers or the safety of road users. The elimination of disparities between the different Member States and the harmonisation of rules must be done from the top. This need must be uncompromising in order to ensure fair, functional, safe and socially sustainable road transport. Several European Commission guidelines do not suit us as they stand. I would like to stress three points which require developments and on which our colleague's proposal for a European resolution brings solutions. The first point concerns the rules governing cabotage and secondment. On the one hand, there are the states that advocate greater liberalization and, on the other, those, including France, that oppose the drifts of boundless liberalization. It is imperative to find an acceptable compromise for road transport at European level if we are to avoid unacceptable distortions of competition. How could France fight fairly against countries with lower wages and less restrictive social and tax laws if strict and more protective rules were not defined? On the question of detachment, we must remain firm. We reiterate our support for the Government's opposition to any specific social standard for the road transport sector that would lead to less demanding rules. It is now time to combat social dumping by establishing rules that guarantee undistorted competition. Consequently, France cannot consent to the abolition of the limit on the number of deliveries during cabotage or to a period of deficiency reduced to only two days between two cabotage periods of five days. Nor can it accept that the threshold for triggering the secondment scheme is set at three days for international road transport: it is a matter of equal treatment between employees and facilitation of control. These provisions do not restore healthy and fair competition, but, on the contrary, continue to maintain inequalities that may further destabilize local businesses. It should be recalled that the European cabotage regulation was primarily aimed at avoiding empty returns and thus reducing the cost to the environment. It did not aim at full liberalisation of the sector, as the Commission is now proposing. Coasting trade must not be like an ordinary mode of road transport: the stakes are vital for our French companies. The Modem and related groups therefore support the motion for a resolution, which calls for a waiting period of at least twenty-one days between two cabotage periods, the maintenance of a maximum number of weekly operations and the abolition of the possibility of caboting in neighbouring Member States. These measures are essential to ensure competition that does not harm national companies, as is the case today. The second point concerns the rules on driving and rest time for drivers, who must be guaranteed decent social conditions as strict safety conditions. The employer must provide them with decent accommodation for the taking of their weekly rest and a right of return to the home or to a place of his choice at least every three weeks. In order to sustain sometimes excessive speed, some employers may be tempted to put excessive pressure on their drivers by reducing their rest time, which poses risks to the safety of drivers and also to the safety of all road users. Some would like to be satisfied with a weekly rest in the cabin. However, these conditions would not be acceptable. The search for competitiveness cannot be at the expense of the rules protecting drivers, as the motion for a resolution points out. We will be vigilant to ensure that decent working conditions are guaranteed and we support the extension of the rules on driving and rest time to light commercial vehicles. If strict rules are needed, they are not enough. The relevance of a rule only makes sense if its control is effective and the abuses punished. The third point therefore concerns the absolute need to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of controls which are currently insufficient. In fact, paper transport documents do not facilitate them. It is imperative to make better use of connected mobility by accelerating the development and generalisation of smart, remote-controllable electronic tachographs, as well as the use of the electronic car led, an effective tool for combating cabotage and secondment fraud by tracing the actual activity of the vehicle. Moreover, it is surprising that the proposed reform of the Mobility package does not provide any concrete answers to the question of the efficiency of controls. It hardly proposes derisory control targets by setting a minimum level of control for cabotage transport of 2 % in 2020 and 3 % in 2022. As a result, the better cooperation between national authorities, the more efficient controls, the shortening of the transition period for the deployment of intelligent tachographs by 2023 and the tightening of the border crossing requirements for trucks equipped with analogue or digital tachographs recommended in this motion for a resolution appear to be relevant and necessary proposals for better application of the rules. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Favourable to the exercise of undistorted competition, the strengthening of safety and the improvement of control, the Modem and related groups will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u14	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u15	Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a European resolution on the mobility package contains no surprises. As always, you validate the central place reserved for the sacrosanct market by European texts: pure liberalism, without social or ecological concern! For the sake of form, you are squeaking at the margin and welcoming the few measures that are too late and too timid without calling into question the substance of this mobility package, which is based on two essential pillars. The first is to promote road transport and its growth, which is necessary for social competition between European States. The second is to ensure the conditions for free competition which is supposedly "fair" but leaves a large part of the costs – and I am thinking of pollution in particular – to be borne by the citizens. With this resolution, you fully subscribe to this framework: not us! You endorse the race at least so-called environmental and social.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u16	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u17	We cannot resolve this. Promoting the development of the road transport sector is a serious mistake because it has the most negative impact on the climate, and we shall continue to repeat this. In a quarter of a century, C0 emissions from transport increased by 20% in the European Union and by 10% in France. It is road, passenger and freight transport, which is responsible for almost all of the carbon balance of the sector – no less than 95%! At this rate, with the blind insistence on the development of the road that characterizes this mobility package and your motion for a resolution, all climate objectives, all COPs, all One Planet Summits will remain only fine communication exercises without any effect. These texts once again bear witness to the hypocrisy of European leaders, unable to go further than the beautiful declarations of intent which give them a good conscience in the face of the ecological emergency, but also in the face of public health problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u18	He's not nice! I don't agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u19	My colleagues on the right, according to the report of the European Environment Agency published last month, pollution of heavy goods vehicles is said to cause three million days of sick leave and 350,000 premature deaths in Europe. Such effects go hand in hand with a significant cost to the Member States, estimated at between EUR 43 billion and EUR 46 billion per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u20	Health has no price!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u21	It is therefore more than time to bring the goods and passengers back from the road to the trains,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u22	These are postures!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u23	... all the opposite of what has been done in France in recent years with the blessing of the European Union where the liberalisation of rail freight in 2006 has mostly looked like a sacrifice – today it captures less than 10% of the goods transported against almost 90% for the road. It is not the timid Eurovignette that will reverse the trend. When is a farm tax per kilometre instead of a low contribution from heavy goods vehicles for the use of our road networks? Moreover, there is a lot to bet that what is happening in the road transport sector is a laboratory for what is waiting for us in the rail sector. Rather than fair competition, this package reinforces wild competition by expanding cabotage opportunities, while the definition is already minimal since commercial vehicles of 3.5 tonnes or less are excluded. Coasting trade will now be permitted indefinitely over a period of five days where it was limited to three operations over a period of seven days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u24	Now he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u25	Your indignation at this new stage in the all-out liberalization that you are advocating in the choir with the European elites is pudicious. Let the European Commission do so as these measures will achieve exactly the same objective as that pursued by the Government and your majority since the beginning of the quinquennium: the competition of all against all, in disregard of any social progress for European workers and without any harmonisation of environmental standards. At this point, it should be said that the SNCF subsidiary dedicated to road transport, Geodis, still has good days ahead of it and will be able to continue to hire road drivers, posted workers at less than 300 euros per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u26	If we follow you, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u27	As you will have understood, this European package, for the most part, is in the liberal line of the current European institutions. The motion for a resolution submitted to our vote does not in any way call into question this logic. There is nothing about the essentials, either in the Mobility package or in the motion for a resolution. We are only offered to accompany the great move of the world, the killing of rail to the benefit of the road, the abandonment of climate objectives and the effective application of the polluter-pays principle. In the face of these challenges, it is true that the national scale is less relevant than the European scale, which itself is less relevant than the global scale, but this cannot hide the inaction following the fine declarations of intent. Still, we must try to seize all the opportunities that arise! Unfortunately, this motion for a resolution is a missed opportunity. That is why we invite you to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u28	All right! Strong and consistent arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u29	There are few Members of the House of Representatives of France who are indifferent! They're not interested in this subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u30	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u31	Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in a context marked by the forthcoming discussion of the future major mobility policy law – the most important one in this field in decades – the question of the model of financing our transport infrastructure arises more than ever. The presentation by the European Commission last July of the Mobility package, in particular its third part on infrastructure pricing and the revision of the so-called Eurovignette Directive, is therefore perfectly within the framework of our national debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u33	There is unanimous agreement that the quality of our road infrastructure in France and Europe is deteriorating. Maintenance expenditure in the European Union decreased by 30% between 2006 and 2013 to about 0.5% of European GDP. The latest study estimates that in 13 Member States – out of the 22 for which data are available – road quality is worrying. The Commission's impact assessment correlates in particular the deterioration of road networks with the absence or still too recent introduction of taxes on the use of infrastructure or the existence of a system of user fees. It also states that revenues from road charges account for only 16% of total infrastructure costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u35	In parallel to this problem of deterioration of our road infrastructure, we are faced with the insufficient contribution of the transport sector to the objectives of reducing CO emissions set out in the Paris Agreement. According to our colleague Damien Pichereau's report, the transport sector's contribution to greenhouse gas emissions increased by 16 % between 1990 and 2015, while overall EU emissions decreased over the same period by 20.9 %. Among the different modes of transport, road transport is considered to be the main contributor. By helping to build tomorrow's tools for sustainable financing of national and European transport networks with a view to combating climate change, the revision of the so-called Eurovignette Directive is now necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u36	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u37	The Mobility package thus presents an ambitious but realistic reform for charging for the use of our transport infrastructure at European level. It includes a range of measures based on the two basic principles of the directive: the polluter-pays principle and the user-pays principle. By introducing the extension of the tax system to all vehicles, it allows a differentiated approach according to the level of pollution of the vehicle and the frequency of use of the infrastructure. On this last point, I believe that although distance pricing is more virtuous than duration-based pricing, the use of vignettes may sometimes be appropriate to take into account certain particularities – we have worked on this issue in the framework of the Infrastructure Orientation Council. I therefore agree with the position of our rapporteur, Damien Pichereau, to leave to the discretion of the Member States the most appropriate charging system. The text also has the advantage of offering Member States the opportunity to set up congestion charges on the most saturated sections of the network. In addition to automatic flow regulation, this will allow the money collected to be used to solve congestion problems by removing bottlenecks or developing alternative infrastructure for users. In the same spirit, the possibility for States to increase infrastructure charges on specific sections that are regularly saturated or cause significant damage to the environment is in the right direction. France is very behind in the application of this type of solution, particularly in relation to what can be done in Belgium or Germany. The application of the solutions contained in this mobility package must therefore encourage us to do so. As Special Rapporteur on the transport budget, I would like to see a step in the direction of shifting financial resources from tolls to road infrastructure. The funding shortfalls we are facing today in this area should in fact encourage us to ensure that "transport pays for transport", especially when we know that in France, for example, the overall tax revenues linked to the road are around 41 billion euros – enough to cover the regeneration work of many sections of the network and to develop new infrastructure! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I am convinced, therefore, that this motion for a resolution and the provisions of the future mobility guidance law will make it possible to do so by proposing financing solutions for our transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u38	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on European Affairs, Madam President of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the presentation by the European Commission of the first Mobility Package, national representation is now called upon to vote, through a motion for a resolution, on the various measures aimed at regulating road transport within the Union. This text will have serious consequences for the future of the road sector, but also for the daily lives of more than 2 million workers and 500,000 businesses throughout Europe, particularly in rural areas. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, French road transport companies are under attack on the national and regional transport market. French SMEs are in fact complying with high social and environmental standards...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u40	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u41	... and they find it very difficult to compete against Europe's low cost road hauliers. The general exasperation of the profession reaches a critical threshold, which must be urgently addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u43	Eastern European states dominate the international transport market, and companies in Europe of the twelve owe their existence to what constitutes their main activity, namely national road transport. We know many families living in road transport and we know the unfair competition caused by transport operators in Eastern Europe. This European draft resolution is a good initiative and I would like to welcome it, Mr rapporteur. The Mobility package should be an opportunity to put an end to the continuing deterioration of working conditions in a sector fundamental to the European economy. In this context, if some of the European Commission's proposals go in the right direction, other proposals are dangerous because they will destroy jobs in France. First of all, with regard to the application of the rules on seconded work, it is not acceptable for specific social standards to apply in the road transport sector, as proposed in the Mobility package. The European Union must commit itself to a European foundation of social rights, and the principle of equal pay for equal work must be upheld. We must commit ourselves to putting an end to the posted workers directive, because it kills jobs in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u45	[[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] Secondly, with regard to driving and rest periods, the European Commission proposes extending the reference period for the calculation of driving and rest periods. One can only worry about the consequences of this increased flexibility in the organisation of work on the living conditions of drivers. It is not acceptable for a rule to apply strictly to French companies and slightly to foreign companies, on the pretext that controls are impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u46	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u47	French road hauliers are tired of this double standard and the heavy rules that are constantly accumulating.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u49	What are you doing when you're in power?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u50	Finally, with regard to cabotage, it would have been preferable to point out in this European motion for a resolution that national representation does not want a change in cabotage rules without social and fiscal harmonisation of the sector. The European Commission's proposal to review cabotage conditions by allowing a foreign company to carry out an unlimited number of transport operations in a Member State is dangerous for the future of French transport SMEs. However, the proposals put forward in this resolution on cabotage are in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will therefore vote for this European motion for a resolution, hoping that this will be heard by the European Commission and that the thousands of jobs in this sector, particularly in rural areas, will be supported and preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u51	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u52	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, France, by its geographical location, has almost all the traffic of heavy goods vehicles in Europe. It is an economic manna, since we have 400,000 jobs linked to this sector, but this activity essential to international trade also has a certain environmental cost, and it also generates expenses related to the wear and tear of our road infrastructure. New social challenges have emerged over the past decade as a result of increasingly flexible European rules on posted workers. Many French companies are developing "letterbox" branches to hire low-cost labour, especially in the Eastern countries, new entrants to the Schengen area. The cake of the freight transport economy sharpens appetites by pulling social rights down, in the name of false European harmonisation. Drivers have become real slaves to the road. I am thinking, for example, of those Polish drivers who are paid two to three times less than French drivers, thanks to bogus subsidiaries that allow us to surf the European directive on posted workers. For example, a large French carrier, which had passed under the American flag thanks to the benevolence of the European authorities, had set up a subsidiary in Poland and had its employees sleep in their truck recently, offering them royally 40 euros of daily allowance and providing two washbasins and three showers for 500 drivers in a premises resembling a slave market. With the rigging of rest periods and whole weeks without going home, the profession of heavy-duty driver has become considerably worse because of the increasing social dumping organised by the European Commission's texts, which has a monopoly on 90% of road transport legislation. Many reports have alerted the French about the abuses committed by transport companies, which make outrageous profits when, at the same time, they treat workers who are nationals of the European Union as second-rate citizens. In the face of this orchestrated chaos, our technocrats decided to come and restore a little order, proposing the electronic tracing of trucks and their drivers, with a goal of generalizing controls in 2032 – let's not be too rushed! – but also a computer check of the hours of rest, in order to avoid fraud, or measures supposed to combat the drifts of detached work by slipping through, in order to satisfy the powerful lobby of the carriers, some facilities concerning cabotage, which will become unlimited over a shorter period of time, but will be extended to the States bordering the original delivery area. Thus, when a Hungarian driver makes an international convoy, he will be able on his way back to his country of origin, and on an unlimited basis, to make small or large deliveries throughout France, but also in neighbouring countries, throughout his week of presence. In other words, this is tantamount to complete but disguised liberalization of the transport sector. The European Commission has become an expert in this type of entourage, it must be recognised, always under the guise of the dogma of competition. Nevertheless, the rapporteur, and I welcome him, has done an excellent analysis and has made rather protective proposals for the benefit of French companies. I am thinking of the pricing of road and motorway structures, the equal treatment of workers in the common market, but also of the criticism he has made of reducing the rest time of heavy-duty drivers, which is a real danger, at a time when France is also making considerable efforts to improve road safety. This motion for a resolution is curiously working towards a primacy of internal rules in the field of freight transport policy, unfortunately contrary to the whole philosophy of Europe, as it exists. Although we have little hope of being heard on all the issues that will be raised at future meetings in Brussels, since the Commission's approach is still ultra-liberal and regardless of the specificities of the Member States, we agree that the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction – even if they do not go so far as to push the dogmas that are legally binding on us. We will therefore abstain from this motion for a resolution, since we know in advance what Brussels will decide. But we note that some Members are no longer fooled by the dangers posed by the European policies pursued by the Commission. This is already a considerable step forward in the mindsets of our National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u54	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the European motion for a resolution before you today is of great importance. It is not only a question of national representation to call on European leaders and elected representatives to respect fundamental principles. It is a matter of expressing, with the greatest strength and precision, the position of the deputies of the nation, in order to strengthen the position of the Government in the European bodies. Road transport is an emblematic sector of the European internal market, and France is at a crossroads in Europe – just look at the registration plates of trucks on our roads to see it. However, the applicable rules are complex, with rules that differ widely from one Member State to another. This often results in the transfer of economic activities to countries with less restrictive regulations. We can therefore welcome the desire to harmonise regulations in this sector. This must be done from the top, taking as a reference the most ambitious requirements. That is what we expect of the European Union, that it strengthens the European social pillar and that it gives substance to the very vocation of Europe, which is to protect, in particular workers, by defining common obligations and rights. This is the goal set by Jean-Claude Juncker by announcing a "triple A social", just as important as a triple A financial. The other challenge is to ensure that market rules will allow the development of fair competition, in order to avoid social dumping in the road transport sector. The President of the European Commission endorsed the principle that "equal pay for equal work in the same place". It is therefore necessary to ensure equal opportunities and market access for European companies, and above all a convergence of working conditions and the protection of employees. That is how we will continue to advance the construction of Europe and meet the expectations of our citizens for a stronger and, above all, more just Europe. We must ensure that only clear, unambiguously applicable and effectively monitored obligations are retained. Finally, I want to go back to another objective expected by Europeans, that of combating global warming. Heavy-duty vehicles account for 5 % of total EU CO2 emissions and 25 % of transport emissions. However, Europe has set an ambitious target of reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2030. At the same time, greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector increased in France by 12% between 1990 and 2013. That is to say, how urgent it is to react. This motion for a resolution aims to support the European Commission's ambition to change the tariff arrangements for certain axes by taking into account negative externalities. Thus, the user-pays principle must no longer be limited to the wear and tear of infrastructure, but must take into account, far beyond that, the consequences for our society, in particular atmospheric pollution. I deliberately use the plural, because CO2 emissions cannot be the only criterion, since the consequences of fine particles for our health and the environment are no longer to be demonstrated – but I think you are going to put forward an amendment along these lines, Mr rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Regulations and tariffs for clean vehicles and polluting vehicles can no longer be devised under the same conditions. These incentives have very important results and are an accelerator of behavioural change. We must therefore strengthen our arsenal to support these transitions. It is a matter of sending a strong message to our European neighbours on the eve of important deadlines. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote broadly on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u56	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution today before the National Assembly deals with the essential issue of road freight transport within the European Union. According to Karima Delli, Chairman of the European Parliament's Transport Committee, "the Commission's proposals are of the utmost importance because they reflect two major challenges in Europe: reducing pollution and social dumping that is tearing the continent from east to west". The Republican Group believes that it is essential to stop the fragmentation of the road freight transport market in Europe in order to establish equal conditions of competition. While we recognise some progress in this first mobility package, such as the supervision of light commercial vehicles and the fight against mailboxes, the two problems of cabotage and the posting of workers remain complete. Therefore, our group is determined to fight unbalanced competition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u58	And unfair!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u59	... fraudulent practices, and to better integrate the road transport sector into the European Union, through the harmonisation of tax and social rules. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be particularly vigilant on these issues, because the future of French freight transport companies is at stake. In this regard, our priorities are as follows. First of all, we must put an end to the lack of regulation and fight against unfair competition. We support the proposals for the regulation of light commercial vehicles, in particular the transposition at European level of the conditions for access laid down in France to the profession of transporter in the field of light transport, the transposition to light commercial vehicles of the rules of secondment and cabotage, the prohibition of taking weekly rest in the cabin, the establishment of a system for monitoring driving times for international light transport. It is also necessary to combat unbalanced competition and fraudulent practices, as well as to strengthen the integration of the road transport sector in the European Union. According to industry professionals, the regulation of secondment of employees would not be the most appropriate for a mobile activity such as theirs and, in order to achieve fairer competition, would be preferable to a European scheme for mobile workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u61	The rules on secondment are not perfect. It represents an administrative burden and its control is perfect, in particular with regard to the effective payment of the French wage to a European driver who has carried out either cabotage or international transport on French territory. It can therefore only be a transitional regime, pending specific provisions for the transport sector, which requires prior harmonisation of tax and social rules in order to ensure fair competition. In the absence of a precise timetable for the adoption of European measures to this end, it would be preferable to retain the secondment regime by correcting drifts, which would prevent French transport companies from facing competition from their foreign counterparts. That is the position we want to defend today. Finally, the aim is to strengthen the framework for cabotage. Because cabotage meets both an economic need and an environmental requirement, the possibility should be maintained, but not under any conditions. We oppose some of the European Commission's proposals which could lead to the cannibalisation of internal markets by the Member States located geographically in the heart of Europe. We therefore believe that the cabotage period should be reduced to three days and that there should be a waiting period between two cabotage periods. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group supports this motion for a resolution because it is in line with our priorities in order to achieve conditions of equal competition in the European freight transport sector and thus defend our companies, which have been subject to unfair competition for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u62	We support our carriers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u63	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which this House is considering today concerns a subject which affects the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Every day, millions of Europeans take the road to ensure road transport of goods within our area of free movement. Each of us benefits from the work of road hauliers in our daily lives. Our responsibility is to ensure that their social conditions do not deteriorate because of the single market, but rather that they improve and align from the top. Mobility is at the heart of economic, social and environmental issues that are key to Europe's future. The transport sector accounts for 11 million jobs and almost 550 billion euros of turnover per year in Europe. But it also accounts for 21% of greenhouse gas emissions and more than 30,000 road deaths per year. It is necessary to maintain the dynamism of the sector while regulating its activities in the direction of the common good: fair competition, road safety and public health. A few weeks before the launch of the European Citizens' Consultations, I welcome the holding of this debate. Beyond the transport regulatory framework, it is a matter of making clear what our vision of Europe is. We want a Europe that protects our social and environmental standards. We reject a Europe of unfair competition and social dumping. Europe is not a market delivered to itself. Europe is better than that. In the European Union we want, it is possible to reconcile competitiveness issues with our common values. By this motion for a resolution, we affirm that all European road hauliers, including drivers of light commercial vehicles, must be given social protection. The rules on secondment must apply to drivers of heavy goods vehicles upon entry into the host country. The President of the Republic has resolutely defended with our European partners the vision of a Europe where market liberalisation is combined with respect for social standards. After last week's agreement on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, we must ensure that the road sector is also protected from abuse and fraud. The improvement of controls using the intelligent tachograph, the fight against "letterbox companies" and the supervision of cabotage are concrete measures that we support. I am also pleased that the Mobility package contains important provisions for the environment and climate. As rapporteur for a European motion for a resolution on the energy transition in the European Union, on which I was on the initiative and which was adopted by the two Committees on European Affairs and Sustainable Development, this is a subject that I attach great importance to. In order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and to contain the rise in temperatures below 2°C, ambitions must be increased and all sectors must be mobilized. Transport has a key role to play. Its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions increased by 16% between 1990 and 2015. Fossil fuels still dominate the sector's energy consumption. Twenty-three Member States, including France, exceed the limits set by the Union for pollutant emissions, which represents a considerable cost to public health, with almost 500,000 premature deaths per year in Europe due to air pollution. We can no longer wait to act. A coherent and responsible European transport policy is more necessary than ever. In the Lower Rhine, where I am elected, I observe the consequences of the lack of harmonisation between national transport policies on cross-border mobility. The failure of the ecotax project in France in 2014 led to a postponement of heavy-duty traffic from Germany to the French border regions, which generates congestion and pollution. We must correct this distortion by putting in place adequate pricing, under conditions acceptable to users. The European Commission's proposals are in the right direction. We support extending the application of the user-pay principle to all four-wheeled vehicles, taking into account impacts such as pollution and congestion of traffic in the calculation of road axis pricing, modulation of toll rates according to CO2 emissions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] But beyond these new rules, we must make sure that their implementing rules are adapted to the diversity of national situations. The motion for a resolution rightly calls for a flexible and proportionate approach. In particular, it is important to preserve the option of time-based pricing, so that States can put in place socially acceptable schemes. For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party supports this motion for a resolution which calls for fair and sustainable European mobility. By adopting it, the Assembly will send out the strong signal that, more than ever, Europe must be the driving force behind the ecological and solidarity transition that citizens expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u65	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your speeches, in any case almost all of them, prove to me that we are on the whole. The objectives set by the Government, as set out in the motion for a resolution, are fairly widely shared. However, I would like to make two points, starting with the results of the European Council on employment, social policy, health and consumers on 23 October. It goes without saying that the Government supports the compromise reached, which clearly confirms that the rules of secondment, those in force since 1996, apply to road transport. No exceptions are provided. It was a red line for the French Government, and it was not crossed. [[Interruptions on the benches of the group La France insoumée]] I would also like to share with Mrs Obono my astonishment at at least one aspect of her speech. The rules on posting, which protect workers, apply in France, but only three other Member States also apply them. Would it be acceptable to leave under-paid and under-protected employees at our doors? The Government has the ambition to protect all European employees from road transport, and of course French employees. I come back to the Mobility package that we are discussing tonight. The forthcoming discussion at European level will not be easy, nor will it be easy to discuss the revision of the posted workers directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u67	And the problem is still not solved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u68	We shall conduct it with a method of dialogue with all the Member States, even those whose positions are a priori diametrically opposed. This does not exclude privileged contacts with our partners in the Road Traffic Alliance, a group of countries with a vocation to open up. We will also lead this discussion with the conviction that social Europe has been too long a hollow slogan, to which our fellow citizens no longer adhere. We prefer Europe which protects by providing concrete guarantees for the rights of workers in the road sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u69	A Europe that protects is not possible under the current treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u70	With the broad support that I hope will be given to this motion for a resolution, we will commit ourselves to the sequence that is set to take place, with the will to listen and convince, while remaining firm on our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u71	Verbiage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is with this spirit that we participate every day in the construction of a Europe that protects which we want to be the actors in. Be aware that I am determined to do so and that I will gladly return to the relevant committees of the National Assembly for follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u73	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u74	I now call, in the committee's text, the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u75	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u76	The work carried out in the Committee on European Affairs by our colleague Damien Pichereau has enabled us to identify all the economic, financial and also social issues involved in this first mobility package. Both economically and socially, the challenge of the improvements to be made is considerable. Indeed, 5 million people work directly in the 915000 road transport companies in the European Union. This motion for a resolution is a decisive step forward in providing fairer and more harmonised protection within the Member States. New control rules were needed. Defining, clarifying, expanding, harmonizing: as many objectives as we can welcome. Achieving a global objective of unification of mobility practices and control is a significant first step in our action at European level. The principles of equality and transparency form the basis of this text. I am thinking of extending the scope of the control rules to include measures relating to the organisation of working time of persons carrying out mobile road transport activities, or of harmonising the method of calculating the level of risk of road transport undertakings. I would therefore like to highlight the concrete progress made by the European Commission in a socio-economic approach expected by France for a better recognition of all our workers and a better harmonisation of the practices of our companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u77	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u78	I would like to stress the relevance of the proposals in the first Mobility package, whether they are the social aspect, the simplification of procedures or, above all, the application of the polluter-pays principle. While our country's ambition is to become the leader in the ecological transition, it is crucial for Europe to have sufficient tools to reduce road transport pollution, which still accounts for one fifth of the European Union's emissions. The application of the polluter-pays principle is simple and fair. It will create the necessary incentives for the renewal of vehicle fleets in France and Europe, while encouraging innovation in transport towards cleaner mobility. It will also provide new financial resources for the financing of our transportation systems. Then a virtuous circle will be set in motion. Only a common and harmonised approach will enable Europe to achieve its emission reduction targets for the transport sector: it is our responsibility to support this approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u79	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u80	Madam Minister, if I have understood what you have said right now, you are pretending to replace social Europe with Europe that protects. I agree with you that social Europe has never been just a sum of unfulfilled promises, because the treaties prevent social and fiscal harmonisation anyway, you know that. However, where is this Europe that protects? What level do you place it at? In CETA, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, which France accepted without having been discussed in Parliament? You mentioned workers posted in the past as if the fact of being able to employ foreign workers in France by applying the standards and social contributions of their country of origin were now behind us. It's a fairy tale. I repeat: it is by mistake that you have put in the past the verb that you have used. Posted workers are always a reality. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Moreover, at the same time as you are about to continue to break the SNCF, as you have already broken the rail freight, opening up passenger traffic to competition, you say that progress will be made in road transport, even though the increasing pollution due to the all-truck has precisely because of the breakdown of the public service and rail freight! You will understand that by hearing fairy tales of this type, the peoples, at some point, do not want any more! Unfortunately, they turn too often to the far right, as is the case in several European countries. For our part, we will try to promote another outcome, but you are responsible for this situation, by portraying an absolutely unreal Europe, because Europe does not protect. It is liberal and imposes only one law, that of the market, to the detriment of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u81	On the single article, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the amendments. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u82	To understand the meaning of this amendment, I would like to read an excerpt from paragraph 27, which states that "the road transport sector... is a major player in the transition to a decarbonised economy". I had the feeling, reading these words, that this was a joke. Seriously, everyone knows today that road transport is responsible for about 70% of emissions from the transport sector and that, unfortunately, they should continue to grow. Transport, all modes, as you know, accounts for some 25% of the European Union's CO emissions. As much, Madam Minister, I fully agree with the Government's action when, as it has done in the Finance Act, it is taking measures on bioGNV – biomethane fuel – to encourage road transport to move towards the use of decarbonised energy, as I think it is a form of provocation to write such a sentence in this motion for a resolution. That is why this amendment seeks to delete the words "and is a major player in the transition to a decarbonised economy".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u83	Mr Damien Pichereau, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u84	Road transport is a segment of land transport that emits major air pollutants: we agree on this point. We must therefore step up the efforts already made by this sector over the last ten years, in particular by manufacturers and carriers, who buy modern vehicles. In this sense, they undeniably represent "a major player in the transition to a decarbonized economy". I agree, efforts are still to be made. This sector must become more involved in the ecological and energy transition through bioGNV, electricity and hydrogen in particular. All links in the chain must strive to achieve the objectives that France, first and foremost, promotes when reducing greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. The road transport sector is indeed an actor in the transition to a decarbonised economy. That is why the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u85	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u86	The transition to a low-carbon economy is at the heart of the climate plan presented by the Government last July: the transport sector, including road transport, must of course make its full contribution. Perhaps it would be appropriate to correct the amendment by specifying that road transport "must be a major player" in the energy transition, which is the meaning of the support put in place by the Government, which you recalled, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u87	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u88	I agree with the text, according to which the actor who must make the most progress is road transport. The flaw of the "major" adjective is that it values the road operator: perhaps it would be better to use the "major" adjective: road transport is not the "major" player in the transition to a decarbonised economy, but the one which, mainly, must act by providing the most effort. I repeat: the term "major" is ambiguous, because it has a positive connotation, unlike "major". As road transport is one of the main polluters, it must become a major player.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u89	I have the impression that we are doing a job there that perhaps should have been done in committee. Madam President of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u90	We have worked well in committee, Mr. Chairman, but, as you can see, the public sitting is useful. I ask for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u91	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u92	The meeting was resumed. I have before me a new amendment, No 19. However, before giving the floor to the author, I would like to know, Mr Bouillon, whether Amendment No 3 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u93	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u94	Mr rapporteur, you have the floor to support Amendment No 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u95	This clarification amendment is intended, in paragraph 27, to replace the word "is" with the words "must be". It would thus be said that road transport "...must be a major player in the transition to a decarbonised economy". This is co-construction work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u96	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u97	Paragraph 28 underlines the fragility or even deterioration of the European road freight transport market "because of the lack of economic and social harmonisation". We suggest adding that "this lack of harmonisation is one of the main causes of European citizens' distrust of the European Union and one of the main threats to a European project". Indeed, it should be stressed that unfair competition constitutes a political threat of first order to the whole European project and that any form of less-supposed economic and social harmonisation by the European institutions systematically leads to a strong political distrust for citizens, who sometimes feel a devious attitude towards the vision of the founding fathers and the social objectives they pursued.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u99	Mr Castellani, respect for the four fundamental freedoms is far from being controlled solely by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Member States are the guarantors of this, as are the European Commission and all the courts. The recital you are proposing to add seems to me too broad and general in scope to be included in a resolution dealing only with the first mobility package. Finally, the recitals already contained in this European motion for a resolution satisfy your amendment in a positive way. I don't think it's wise to add a redundant speech. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u101	On the substance, of course, the Government shares your view: there is an urgent need to combat unfair competition, which runs counter to the essential principle of "equal work, equal pay in the same territory" and makes the bed of all populism. The fight against unfair competition is also a central focus of the Government's priorities, both in terms of road, air and sea transport. However, this concern is at the heart of this European motion for a resolution; Consequently, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u102	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u103	Paragraph 32 states that competition within the internal market must be fair – we have just talked about it – and fair conditions for operators. After this paragraph, we suggest inserting the following subparagraph: "Considering that Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway and Sweden signed on 31 January 2017, following a French initiative, a "roader alliance" in order to define common positions in this sector and to combat unfair competition". Indeed, this road agreement marks a first remarkable initiative of the Western European countries in the context of the harmonisation of road transport in Europe. It shows a general awareness, beyond France, of the need to reform this sector in order to reduce unfair competition there. It thus makes it possible to highlight a form of consensus between countries with the highest social rights and to recall that the French position expressed in this European motion for a resolution is far from being isolated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u105	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] My dear colleague, we agree that the Road Alliance is indeed a very important part of the negotiations, but it is only a stage in the negotiations. Mentioning only these nine countries in our motion for a resolution might suggest that we do not need to convince other partners. It is therefore preferable not to include in a resolution of the National Assembly a reference to these only partners which would de facto exclude others. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u107	Same opinion. Indeed, the Roadman's Alliance is intended to expand. It is, moreover, what is happening, particularly with Greece, which is now associated with the work of this alliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u108	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u109	My amendment, of course, is not intended to exclude certain countries, but rather to point out that a number of European Union countries have come together on a number of positive topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u110	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u111	[[Smile]] Earlier, in her reply to the general discussion, the Minister wanted to build on the Road Alliance to build a balance of forces in favour of improving working conditions in the road sector within the Council of the European Union. The aim of Amendment No 4 is precisely to call on the Government "to rely fully on the Roadman's Alliance", so I have the feeling that the Minister's comments were, in advance, a favourable opinion. It's better to say it, it's better to write it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u113	This proposal for a European resolution is not intended to mention the negotiations, but rather to report on our Assembly's positions on the first mobility package. We can indeed welcome this alliance between several states, at the initiative of France, as I did at the moment, but our country needs to rally other partners. This alliance is only one of the many stages of negotiation. It is therefore preferable not to include in a resolution of this House a reference to these partners alone, which would de facto exclude other countries, as I have already said in relation to the previous amendment. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u114	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u115	It's always the story of the bottle half full or half empty. Earlier, Madam Minister, I heard your impressions on the Council of the European Union of 23 October 2017. If progress is significant, we need to go even further and have a more progressive view of it. It is clear that there is still a need to convince, particularly on the issue of secondment for the road sector. The aim of this amendment is therefore to develop a much more progressive vision than the ambitions set out at the Council meeting on 23 October 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u116	Very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u118	Mr Bouillon, I cannot agree with you. As I said in introducing the text and as the minister reminded us at the moment, the agreement reached at the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council – EPSCO – on 23 October 2017 is a success for us, since, in the Mobility package, the question of the posting of road freight transport workers is reserved. We can't regret it! I repeat: it's a victory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u120	The Government naturally supports the compromise reached at the EPSCO Council on 23 October. The principle agreed by a majority of Member States is clear: the existing rules of secondment apply fully to road transport, and only the rules of application to this sector will have to be dealt with within the framework of the Mobility package. This reinforces the French practice of applying the 1996 Directive. Let me stress the progress made: all proposals to exclude road transport from the scope of the posted workers directive have been rejected. The Government now looks forward to the early adoption of this revised directive – the latest "trilogues" on this subject give us hope that this may be the case. It is therefore against Amendment No 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u121	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u122	I am well aware of the idea of seeing carriers operating cabotage in France as posted workers: this ensures fair competition. But you yourself say, Madam Minister, that everything is going to be played out in the application of this principle. It's almost impossible! The company can be connected to abroad: carriers are not installed in France but come to do cabotage for a certain time. They are then considered to be French employees to be paid at the French rate. In the same month, however, these workers may return to their country of origin. How will we physically verify, on their salary bulletin, that they have received in their country the amount they should have received in France? It is a technical question and you are right, Madam Minister: everything is played out in this technical question. Hello writing these technical provisions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u123	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u124	We cannot pretend that there is no European White Paper on transport policy. A number of recommendations contained in this White Paper are prominently reflected in this European motion for a resolution. However, it is necessary to go even further, and it is in this sense that I referred earlier, in the general discussion, to the work of the rapporteur in the European Parliament on this subject. Amendment No 9 therefore incorporates the objectives set out in the White Paper and promoted with great conviction by the rapporteur in the European Parliament, which we want to support here. We are discussing a motion for a resolution. If we do not want this text to remain a mere statement of intent, if we really want to make progress in the transport sector and in the fight against climate change, then we need to be much more resolute in our objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u126	We have already had this discussion in committee. Indeed, legislative competence in tax matters remains a competence of the Member States: it is not a competence of the European Union. While it is desirable to encourage at European level, for example, the approximation of the definitions of the basis for taxation of certain taxes, there is no question of allowing the Union to encroach on the tax sovereignty of States. You could understand this in my speech: I am in favour of extending the scope of the vehicles referred to in paragraph 37 to cover all vehicles having a significant impact on road infrastructure and air pollution in a differentiated way, according to the categories of vehicles, with a less strict framework for light vehicles than for heavy vehicles, but without differentiation between heavy vehicles and light commercial vehicles used in the transport of goods in order to avoid a distortion of competition which today favours the latter. As regards the extension of taxation to the secondary network, I agree with the principle, while alerting you to the need to respect the principle of non-accumulation. The second paragraph of Article 7 of Directive 1999/ 62/EC on the taxation of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures prohibits States from imposing "cumulative tolls and user charges for a given category of vehicles for the use of the same section of road", with the exception of "the use of bridges, tunnels and passways". Let me turn to our main divergence, which concerns the issue of the ban on duration pricing for distance pricing. When we put in place a legal system, Mr Bouillon, we must study what has been done before, in particular the effect of previous arrangements, the opinion of our fellow citizens and, finally, the way in which the objective set has been achieved or not achieved. We have both an obligation of means and an obligation of result. I know that this reflection on our public policies is not common to all the political groups in this House, but all the same! The observation is clear: since 2011, very few countries have chosen to charge for the noise or air pollution generated by road transport – only Austria and Germany have used this possibility – and the European Commission itself has acknowledged in its impact assessment that this situation is due to too complex and rigid conditions. As a result, I find it difficult to separate this device even further. For all these reasons, I am against Amendment No 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u128	Unlike the majority of Member States, France supports the essential objectives of the revision of the Directive, namely to extend its scope to all vehicles and to better take account of externalities by promoting the full application of the polluter-pays principle. However, the new system will have to be put in place with some flexibility, in order to adapt the most relevant tools as quickly as possible to different situations and to take into account existing contractual situations. It is therefore not desirable to provide for an absolute obligation, without the possibility of adaptation. For these reasons, although the Government is sensitive to the philosophy of the amendment aimed at a harmonised and comprehensive approach, within the shortest possible time, ensuring fair treatment within the Union and legibility for businesses and citizens, it does not support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u129	I have before me an amendment, No 11, which is the subject of a sub-amendment, No 18. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u130	If we want to ensure the application of a number of principles laid down in this European motion for a resolution, we must create a European agency capable of contributing to the proper implementation of the agreed rules and effectively combating social dumping. We must give ourselves the means to achieve the objectives pursued by this motion for a resolution, failing which we will remain at the stage of good intentions; But everyone knows here that, when we stay at this point, nothing progresses. You wanted, Mr rapporteur, to be quite pragmatic. That is true, no doubt it must be, but you know as well as I do that without this control, without this sanction, without this will, expressed by the establishment of a European agency, to reach the end of these objectives, we will remain in the present state and we will not make much progress. We will have to announce a dose of pragmatism, it will be like water in the sand, it will not produce any effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u131	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u132	I agree with your opinion on the need for controls and their homogenization. The sub-amendment I am proposing concerns only the channel used. You want to use a European transport agency. However, a European labour authority was announced by President Juncker in September 2017 and I believe it will be presented in an effective way tomorrow: it would be better to entrust him with the homogenisation of controls, particularly cross-border ones. Subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment, I shall issue an opinion in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u133	Thank you, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u135	Favourable to the amendment tabled by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u136	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u137	This amendment aims to ensure that infrastructure pricing not only includes greenhouse gas emissions, as proposed by the European Commission, but also retains the concept of EURO classes, which allows all other pollutants, in particular fine and very fine particles and nitrogen oxides and NOx, to be taken into account, which, in my humble opinion, should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u138	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u139	Article 68 provides that the diversity of situations in the European Union requires a flexible and proportionate approach and that States have the responsibility to choose the most effective and appropriate solutions to their situation. That's a good thing. This amendment therefore tends to apply this very relevant approach, in particular to the organisation of road transport in regions facing multiple permanent physical or demographic constraints mentioned in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is thus intended to mention, in the resolution that we are considering, the provisions of this Treaty which make it possible to reaffirm the need to take into account the diversity of the territories, in particular the island fact and the mountain fact – it will not surprise anyone. A proportionate approach is particularly essential in the field of road transport, which is the subject of this resolution, but it is also essential in other areas of transport, air, sea or rail.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u141	My dear colleague, you mention only partially Article 174 of the Treaty, which also refers to rural areas and areas where an industrial transition is taking place. This Article exists and each Member State may decide whether or not to apply it, without, in my view, having to refer to it here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u143	The Eurovignette Directive aims to regulate the possible application of toll systems and vignettes to ensure that there is no discrimination and that favourable trading conditions are maintained within the Union, but does not require the implementation of a uniform and uniform system at Member State level. In this context, it does not seem useful or appropriate to provide in the text of the Directive for a geographical adjustment on a case-by-case basis, at the risk of calling into question the general objective of better application of the principles of user-pays and polluter-pays. The Member States remain free, in the application of the text, to provide for systems adapted to the territories concerned, which we shall not fail to do. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u144	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u145	Although it was tabled long before this sitting, this amendment gives the impression of being strongly inspired by the comments made by the rapporteur and the Minister. It reads as follows: "Supports the European Commission's proposal to phase out" – I insist on this word – "the vignette systems, based on the duration of use of the network, which do not reflect the application of the user-pay principle" – we all agree – "to replace them with a fee system based on the distance travelled". That seems to me, Madam Minister, to be in line with what you said to us tonight. I insist on the word 'progressively', because it is not a question of imposing, and on the pragmatic aspect of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u147	For the same reasons as for Amendment No 9, unfavorable opinion. I would also like to refer to Mrs Revault d'Allonnes Bonnefoy's argument, which tends to give Member States a margin of appreciation of the charge for external costs on networks not covered by infrastructure pricing. The Member States are in fact best able to assess their social acceptability according to the system and the socio-economic context. I also apply this argument to the European infrastructure pricing scheme, which must be incentiveful and proportionate, but sufficiently flexible for the Member States. Establishing common rules is necessary, but the tools proposed to the Member States need to be adapted in order to ensure, in the long run, their full implementation and effectiveness. Furthermore, you are aware that the law on the organisation of mobility is currently in preparation, following the great national consultation which has been the basis of mobility. Why should we close up opportunities for action? It would be very damaging if the Government's current effort were to come up against a European framework that was still being developed, whose adoption deadline was finally still unclear and which would prove to be too rigid.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u149	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] I would remind you that France is in a particular situation, which comes from the major difficulty it has encountered in implementing the eco-tax. This must remind some parliamentarians of their memories on these benches. The thumbnail could be an alternative solution before returning, if necessary, to a kilometric device. This is what the Infrastructure Guidance Board has recommended in its recent report. For these reasons, the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u150	The ecotax is back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u151	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u152	Truck drivers are increasingly fearful of migrants' actions. Jets of projectiles against their trucks, fear, for the roadmen, of stopping on highway stations, intervention of the CRS with tear gas to prevent migrants from getting into trucks, forced trailer locks, cut sheets, damaged goods: these "miscellaneous facts", as they are now called, can turn into disaster, as was the case on January 23, 2017, with an accident between two heavy vehicles on the E40 motorway. Sometimes we even go from disaster to tragedy: in June 2017, a driver died because of a migrant dam. This situation can no longer be sustained. Truck drivers are direct victims of this seasonal and illegal immigration. In 2015, in Calais, the damage caused by migrants amounted to €36 million for road drivers in the region. Since then, abuses have continued throughout the country. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I therefore propose the creation of a solidarity fund to compensate drivers or heavyweight companies attacked by migrants. This fund should be partly financed by fines imposed on drivers who participate in this illegal immigration. In England, a fine of EUR 2000 per person found and EUR 600 for the transport company is applied. This is an example that we could follow. Anyway, let's be firm. Roadmen must be protected and smugglers condemned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u154	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Ménard, your amendment is as demagogic as it is controversial. What the carriers want above all, and I have met them, is healthy and balanced competition. That is what we are proposing with this European motion for a resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Your amendment is not supported by figures: we do not know the number of beneficiaries, nor the number of contributors, and therefore we do not know how this fund would be financed, who would collect it, and for what cost. I would add that it has no place in this motion for a resolution, the purpose of which is quite different. The last sentence of your amendment, in particular, is a legislative provision that falls within the scope of criminal law and not the competence of the European Union, and therefore has no place here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u156	I would like to stress the total mobilization of the French and British governments on the issues that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u157	The British, a little less!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u158	To respond by proposing the creation of a fund within the framework of a European directive seems to me a little inappropriate. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u159	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u160	The extension of the user-pays principle to all four-wheeled vehicles, advocated by the European Commission and then by France, why not? Apply it according to a number of broad criteria – noise or air pollution – why not again? Thinking that the road user is a milk cow, why not? Of course, but we still need a counterpart! When the State decides to charge users, they are entitled to ask where their money goes. However, when we learn that almost 50% of road accidents are linked to poor infrastructure, we are still thinking. The Duron report recognises that while 9000 kilometres of the licensed road network are in excellent condition of maintenance and a very good level of operation, this is not the case for the remaining 12600 kilometres. According to the report, the resources devoted to the unlicensed national road network have been "inadequate" and the state of this heritage "is deteriorating rapidly". Thus, in order to ensure the state of this network and maintain it at an appropriate level, the departments of the Ministry consider that EUR 1 billion should be spent on it for ten years. It would therefore be interesting for all paying users to know whether the money collected on the road is actually effectively reinjected into road maintenance. This is the meaning of this amendment, which tends to ask the Government to prepare a report on the use of the sums collected each year from road users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u162	Mrs Ménard, I am sorry to have to tell you again that we are not discussing the law on the organisation of mobility: this is a proposal for a European resolution. So, I repeat, this is not the right shuttle at all. In substance, I agree with you. I was draftsman of the 2018 finance bill for the land programme: the need for road regeneration is a reality, and it will be discussed. The budget of the AFITF – Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – has already been increased and the IOC has submitted a report on how to finance our new infrastructure and on the transports of the daily – which, I remind you, are our priority. So we're dealing with it, but it doesn't belong here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u163	We have concluded our examination of the articles of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u164	I put to the vote the single article in the European motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u165	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the air transport agreement between the United States of America, firstly, the European Union and its Member States, secondly, Iceland, thirdly, and the Kingdom of Norway, fourthly (No 375, 614).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u166	The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u167	Mr President, rapporteur Laurence Dumont, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I come to introduce the bill adopted by the Senate to ratify an agreement that will extend to Iceland and Norway the legal framework applicable to air transport between the Member States of the European Union and the United States of America. Since 2007, there has been an agreement between the European Union and the United States, known as "open skies", which establishes a uniform legal framework for airlines operating in these two areas. This agreement deals with freedom of air traffic and the possibility of sharing flights between companies, issues of fair competition, safety, safety, regulatory cooperation and consumer protection, and finally the social dimension. From the outset, we wanted to allow other countries the opportunity to join this EU-USA "open skies" agreement. Norway and Iceland then made their interest known; That is why this process has been initiated. In 2011, the European Union, Iceland and Norway and the United States signed an air transport agreement extending the provisions of the air transport agreement between the Union and its Member States and the United States of America to Iceland and Norway. Iceland and Norway belong to the European Economic Area and maintain close relations with the European Union, whose de facto implementation of a large number of internal market regulations. This is particularly the case in the air sector: the airlines of Iceland and Norway apply all EU air transport rules. In return, their airlines already have unrestricted access to the European internal market and are therefore considered to be EU air carriers. The point of this new agreement is to ensure greater legal harmonisation between the European Union, Norway and Iceland, and thus greater readability for both businesses and consumers. It is also an opportunity to export EU law to neighbouring countries. European, Icelandic and Norwegian air carriers, like their US counterparts, can now offer services between any airport in the European Union, Iceland and Norway and any US airport. In terms of environmental impact, this agreement does not change the two tools we have to take account of and reduce aviation emissions: it is the aviation ETS, a mechanism developed by the European Union to cover routes within the EU or between the EU and Norway and Iceland, and CORSIA, a mechanism developed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation – ICAO – for international aviation. Economically, we do not expect a major impact, for three reasons. First, Iceland and Norway already apply all European air transport regulations and, more generally, high social and environmental standards. Secondly, the demographic weight of the two new members of the Euro-American "open sky" remains modest: Norway has 5.2 million inhabitants and Iceland 0.33 million, when the EU-US total has more than 830 million. Thirdly, while there are lowcost airlines in Iceland and Norway that can potentially increase competition on transatlantic routes, they are in fact already present in the European Union: Norwegian companies have already established subsidiaries in the European Union, which hold European air carriers' licences, which give them access to the US market under the 2007 Air Transport Agreement. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] These are, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the main provisions of the air transport agreement between the United States of America, firstly, the European Union and its Member States, secondly, Iceland, thirdly, and the Kingdom of Norway, fourthly, which is the subject of the draft law proposed for your approval today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u168	Mrs Laurence Dumont, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u169	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the international agreement on which I am responsible is in itself modest in scope, but it concerns an important issue: the European Union's external air policy. To present this agreement, a brief historical reminder is required. Until the 1990s, transatlantic air relations were governed by inter-State agreements between the United States and European countries, whereby the signatories granted traffic rights to each other's airlines. In the early 2000s, the European Commission claimed exclusive Community competence to enter into such agreements. In 2002, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, without giving the Commission any reason on this point, held that several of the inter-State agreements that existed at the time were contrary to European law. As a result, the Member States decided to communityize this policy: an "open skies" agreement was reached between the European Union and the United States in 2007 and amended in 2010. The "open skies" agreement is mainly aimed at liberalising transatlantic air traffic under various restrictions. It also deals with many other issues: freedom of pricing, the possibility of sharing flights between companies, the possibility of developing their commercial presence in the partner's territory, the framework of rules limiting foreign investment in the air sector, the possibility of renting aircraft with their crews, loyalty of competition, security, safety, regulatory cooperation, consumer protection, the environment, the social dimension... The agreement we are looking at today, which dates back to 2011, has a much more limited purpose. It aims only to extend this Euro-American open sky system to two partners: Iceland and Norway. Article 2 of the Agreement provides that the open skies system will apply to Iceland and Norway "as if these countries were Member States of the European Union, so that [these countries] have all the rights and obligations of the Member States" provided for in the 2007 Agreement. The remainder of the scheme consists of measures of consequence and coordination. The main consequence of this Agreement will therefore be to formally authorise airlines in the Member States to freely offer flights between Iceland or Norway and the United States and, reciprocally, airlines in those two countries to offer flights between Union airports and the United States. The impact of this liberalisation, both economic, social and environmental, should, however, be limited, given the consequences of the development of air traffic for a number of reasons. Firstly, the demographic and therefore economic weight of the two new members of the Euro-American Open Skies is modest. Norway has 5.2 million inhabitants and Iceland 330000, while the EU-US total has more than 830 million. Secondly, these new members, members of the European Economic Area, already apply all the European regulations relating to the air transport sector and, more generally, high social and environmental standards. Finally, their airlines did not wait for this agreement to invest in the Euro-American market when they wanted to. Norwegian, a leading company in the market for low-cost long-haul flights, has thus circumvented the obstacle by setting up subsidiaries in the European Union, Ireland and the United Kingdom. These have enabled it to obtain the European air carrier licence and to develop a network of transatlantic routes from several Member States. For example, Norwegian has been serving several destinations in the United States since 2016 from Roissy. In the other direction, this Agreement in principle opens up opportunities for EU airlines to develop flights between the United States and Iceland or Norway. However, it is unlikely that they will rush into this market in view of its small size and the strength of the local companies already present. To conclude on the agreement itself, I would therefore say that it deserves neither enthusiasm nor excessive reticence. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted this bill and I invite you to do the same. But I now come to what has undoubtedly motivated the request for debate in the sitting by several groups, which I am pleased to hear: this agreement raises the question of the European Union's external air policy. In this area, there is a certain activism of the European Commission, which negotiated agreements with most of our close neighbours and obtained mandates for negotiations with many other countries – Algeria, Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Lebanon, New Zealand, Qatar, Turkey... – not to mention a regional organization, ASEAN – Association of Southeast Asian Nations – with which an agreement would be finalized. We must move towards a better integration of social and environmental issues into the liberalisation agreements that will be reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u171	I would point out that, depending on the sources, which are sometimes divergent, air transport accounts for between 2% and 5% of total greenhouse gas emissions. If air transport were a country, it would be the sixth largest global contributor to the greenhouse effect, ex aequo with Germany. However, we must also recognize the positive role already played by the European Union in this regard. It is the Union that has first sought to integrate international air transport into its carbon rights system. It has given up on the international outcry that has resulted, but this has made it possible for ICAO to move forward: a general system of compensation for increases in greenhouse gas emissions is expected to be introduced gradually from 2020 onwards. Of course, this device is critical: it will first be voluntary, before being generalized; it takes as a reference the level of greenhouse gas emissions achieved in 2020, without ambition of reduction; and even with this modest ambition, it does not foresee a real cap on emissions but only the obligation to compensate for their increase, for example by planting forests. In short, air transport is not yet really involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But he still cares: as we say of countries that leave tax haven lists, he is in a "grey zone". Of course we will have to go further, but a first step has been taken thanks to the action of the Europeans. I hope that, after the Paris agreement, the European Commission will be much more demanding, in the possible future air agreements it will sign, than it had been in the "open skies" agreement with the United States, whose environmental clauses were very weak. But times have changed! This also applies to social clauses, especially if air agreements are to be considered with countries that do not at all share our social model or our societal values, such as equality between men and women. Under no circumstances should these agreements be an opportunity for a less-so-called social one: on the contrary, they must allow us to export our values and our social standards. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Our debate today is an opportunity to set milestones. I count on the Government to inform us about the negotiations initiated by the European Commission and to reassure us of the content of the air agreements it is considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u172	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u173	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as our excellent rapporteur, Laurence Dumont, has pointed out, the agreement we are discussing today is in itself modest in scope. The aim is to extend the "open sky" system introduced in 2007 between the European Union and the United States to include two other partners, Iceland and Norway, whose air traffic is limited and who, belonging to the European Economic Area, already apply most of the technical regulations and European standards. In this context, the Foreign Affairs Committee has adopted the bill without difficulty. But this text can allow us to ask ourselves the more general question of the European Union's external policy in the air field. Liberalisation and competition are at the heart of the European Union's air agreements. This has led to a very large diversification of the supply in terms of tariffs and services and, it must be acknowledged, to a genuine democratisation of the air sector. However, in our view, competition must remain fair, and social and environmental standards must be respected. For example, the European Union wishes to enter into air agreements with partners such as the countries of the Middle East and the Gulf, whose companies have become formidable competitors. If these companies are so dynamic, it is also because they combine two comparative advantages over ours: they have low standards; They often benefit from public funding and lack of clear rules on both transparency and competition. Let's just say: if these companies want to join the "open sky" system in the long term, they will have to comply with high-level social and environmental standards and clear competition rules. A word about the environmental issues that have already been discussed: the 2007 "open skies" agreement with the United States does not say anything about climate change issues. However, since the signing of this agreement, there has been the Paris agreement: these issues will obviously have to be taken into account and considered as a priority in the future air transport agreements of the European Union. Today, the sector is not affected by any mechanism to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. While the International Civil Aviation Organisation has decided, on the sidelines of the Paris Agreement, to establish a mechanism for emissions compensation, this decision concerns only international flights and this mechanism, as we know, will not withstand the doubling of the traffic envisaged by 2036. Such a forecast clearly calls for better regulation at European and international level, as well as for the promotion of technological innovation to finally reduce the carbon footprint of this sector. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] On all these issues, we must exercise our vigilance and use our alert power to ensure that these agreements contribute, in the future, to the inclusion of air transport in the overall effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We will have done a useful job.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u174	In the general debate, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u175	[[Smile]] Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, we are in flight at night! I am not the leader of the Saint-Exupéry novel River, but I can tell you that the landing ground is a little short, that is, the legislative surface on which we are discussing this evening is quite small. In 2007, the end of bilateral agreements: the European Union concluded an agreement with the United States. That's legitimate, logical. Today, we are expanding this agreement in an absolutely exceptional way, since we must decide on the reception of 300,000 Icelanders and 5.2 million Norwegians... [[Smile]] This small area of our legislative landing ground I was talking about is inversely proportional to the quality of the report. Indeed, it gives us the opportunity to ask ourselves questions on various subjects, which I believe are threefold. The first subject is social. If we debate this text in public, it is because there is a social problem. Thus, there will very soon be a strike by Air France... As for the low cost Norwegian company, it has already established two subsidiaries in Ireland and the United Kingdom, which already allow it to do what this agreement "allows" it today. She now pays much lower wages than she would have to pay in Norway. The question of social dumping allows us to refer very quickly to the Chirac tax. A beautiful idea, an original idea, even crazy! Today, it is the subject of an agreement between three countries: Chile, South Korea and France... It is still terrible, that such a beautiful idea is not taken up by more countries! That must make us think. As far as social dumping is concerned, let us not forget that Ryanair was convicted of hiding work at Marseille airport – others of our colleagues will certainly come back. Such cases must not be renewed. That must not exist. The report also allows us to refer to the privatisation of airports. In this regard, we can talk about state schizophrenia. Think of Air France and Aéroports de Paris: the State charges fees to a company of which it is a shareholder! The state pays for the state! This is a major problem, on which we will probably come back tomorrow, on another subject, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thus, as the pilots of Air France, Emirates, the United Arab Emirates, have said recently, is much better received than Air France by Aéroports de Paris, not to mention its negotiating capabilities! Of course, Emirates buys Airbus: you see me quite delighted, so much the better! But there is a certain schizophrenia there. So we really need to think about all these social dumping issues. I have read, this weekend, quite extraordinary studies on the calculations of some companies: they are studying the ability to urinate passengers, the weight and the costs that this represents! Recently, a businessman even wondered if it would not be possible to travel standing passengers! In short, this report, even if its purpose is limited, may allow us to reflect on these issues. I would also like to address the question of the French flag. It's like the maritime pavilion: it's something essential, you don't have to let him go! The story of the Sabena was a trauma for the Belgians. The name Air France is strong, and it's something to keep. Air France, it's social law, employees, sites, it's a representation of our country. Beware of our French pavilion! Finally, I want to talk, after the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee, about the environment. We are told that this agreement is a little old, that it is before the Paris agreements. Of course, but tomorrow we will discuss an agreement with Israel that dates back to 2014 and that is not much more about the environment – I would say even a little less! There is, of course, a certain self in the airlines. But we should put more emphasis on the environmental issue, especially since Airbus is a manufacturer whose quality is superior to that of many others. As a Frenchman, we can only rejoice. [[Smile]] I conclude by regretting that there is so little talk of air traffic in this Chamber – but I have spoken ten minutes, without paper, about an extremely small legislative object! The last time this was discussed here was in the early 1930s. The great company Latécoère, in other words the Aeropostal, of which Mermoz speaks, of which Saint-Exupéry speaks, had been bought, quite quickly, unfortunately, by a banker, Bouilloux-Lafont. The result was a resounding, terrible scandal, with bribes paid in South America, for example, to crush the Deutsche Luft Hansa of the time... This case has brought down a government! One of the Chautemps governments. [[Smile]] I heard the Minister of Transport announce, in the Senate, the next meeting of air transportation seats. This seems to me necessary in order to defend our social law, but also the French flag and the environment. Otherwise, air transport will bring down a government again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u176	Thank you for this moment of history, my dear colleague! Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u177	This bill, which follows the air transport agreement between the European Union and the United States of America of 30 April 2007 and the protocol of 24 June 2010 amending the agreement, extends the single legal framework for air transport between the European Union and the United States to Iceland and Norway. I am well aware of the island specificities of Iceland – a country to which I extend my friendships as chairman of the France-Iceland friendship group – and the northern peculiarities of Norway. I do not deny the interest of these two countries in lifting restrictions on international routes. But the problem here is not the extension of the agreement to Iceland and Norway: it lies in the substance of the text. It endorses, and therefore today is expanding, a harmful and ineffective liberalisation of air traffic undertaken by the European Union. It promotes social dumping, undermines the sovereignty of the State and ultimately contributes to the degradation of the environment. This air transport agreement between the European Union and the United States enshrines principles that need to be discussed: the lifting of restrictions on international routes between the Union and the United States; freedom to charge air services; the limitation of subsidies and State aid, on the pretext that they would distort "fair" and fair competition between airlines. As usual when we deregulate a sector, the European Commission is making us look forward to far-reaching economic and job-creation benefits. But at what cost? If it is at the cost of the development of the lowcost companies which engage in totally unfair competition, which my colleague Hutin has just described, and at the cost of social dumping within and between states, then it is unacceptable. Remember: in 2015, the lowcost Ryanair company was pointed at. Some of his pilots and air hostesses were forced to stay in campsites! That is the absurdity and unbearable treatment to which we are guided by the logic of cost reduction at all costs. To move away from states to support the growth of the air force, as the text says, is to choose an economic model that is not effective for the community or for taxpayers. This increase in traffic is mainly due to low cost companies. However, from the very confession of the Court of Auditors – in 2008, that is to say at the very moment when this agreement was signed – these companies are vamping the public funding of local and regional authorities who are trying both well and badly to make their infrastructure survive. In other words, the development of a "every plane" at the expense, socially and economically, is unhealthy. It is "chronically in deficit" – these are the terms of the Court of Auditors – and survives only because the French portfolio is forced to feed the machine. In addition, these large budgets granted by the communities to lowcost companies frustrate illegality. For example, a marketing campaign paid EUR 1.4 million to a subsidiary of Ryanair at Strasbourg airport. The Administrative Court found that there had been no real commercial consideration for this amount paid by a public institution. It was therefore an illegal public subsidy. The Court of Auditors also recommended that the role of the regulator State be improved and that it be stronger with regard to airlines in regulatory contracts. On the other hand, and in the interests of balance, this project then imposes a previously non-existent reciprocity constraint: the US companies cannot be the majority owners of a European company or effectively control it. As curious as it may seem, this was not the case so far! This can be satisfied, but it can also be realized that this should have been the case for a long time. Despite these details of putting in place a certain reciprocity which is ultimately quite anecdotal, we do not believe that this agreement can be beneficial for anyone, in any case, for international cooperation in the field of air transport or for the environment. I believe that this agreement promotes the development of air transport without any environmental considerations. There are no restrictions on the number of flights or aircraft type. Yet the International Air Transport Association plans to double the number of air passengers worldwide by 2035. In terms of the carbon cost of air transport, this is bad news for the planet: it accounts for about 20% of carbon emissions in transport, which itself is the first CO emission stations. The carbon footprint by aircraft is far too important not to regulate current flows. New solutions must be found to meet this growth, and such an agreement cannot ignore this problem! This bill undermines the recognition of the importance of environmental protection, but only if it does not impede the exercise of the rights provided for in the agreement. However, we should urgently reverse the priority: it is up to the economy to adapt to the ecological imperative, not the other way around. Last Sunday, temperatures of 30 degrees above seasonal normal were observed at the North Pole. Let's reverse the logic, it's urgent! Climate protection goes beyond economic considerations and respect for competition in the Agreement, as it states that "the Parties intend to cooperate to limit or reduce, in an economically reasonable manner, the impact of international aviation on the environment" and that "when a Party considers draft environmental measures at the regional, national or local level, it should assess the possible adverse effects of such measures on the exercise of the rights provided for in this Agreement". Thus, if a party considers that environmental protection in the field of aviation raises difficulties in the application or implementation of the agreement, it can only complain to a committee set up by the agreement. I did not know that the slogan "Make our planet great again" meant in concrete terms the opening of crying offices! By pursuing the objective of establishing perfect competition, this agreement contributes to total deregulation. From the preamble, the agreement thus recalls its primary objective of "promoting an international air transport system based on competition between air carriers in a market subject to a minimum of state intervention and regulation". On the contrary, we believe that this case is too serious for the State to be ruled out. The State must of course intervene and even be the main player in air traffic management and environmental protection. The openness to competition and total deregulation required by this text are completely unreasonable. They are contrary to the logic of cooperation and respect for the environment. The opposite should be done: to strengthen state regulation of air traffic and to preserve the role of the State in airport management – in contrast to the increasing number of privatisation projects – in particular to better protect the environment, which the market is unable to do. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The reason we will vote against this bill is therefore not to extend it to Iceland and Norway, but to the economic, ecological and competitive conditions in which the agreement will apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u178	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u179	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President, Madam rapporteur, it is a pleasure to be able to debate this subject. Since the committee that examined this bill has also discussed the Assembly's Rules of Procedure and the possibility for political groups to ask for a debate in open session on a treaty, I would like us to be unanimous in defending the maintenance of this right throughout our mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u181	This bill provides us with an opportunity to debate the free trade agreements, and in particular the one that has governed the US-European skies in recent years, which the GDR Group is about to reject. The draft of such an agreement dates from June 2003, when the European Union and the United States were mandated to launch negotiations for an air transport agreement. The first stage of the creation of this unique airspace was signed in 2007 and applied, on a provisional basis, in 2008: to believe that when it comes to big money, we do not get embarrassed with democracy! Since then, several milestones have marked the course of this text: a protocol amending the agreement signed in 2010, and an amendment in 2015 following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. Fifteen years therefore: it will have taken fifteen years for this text to end its race in our House to serve the civil aviation multinationals. We will vote against this agreement, I say from the outset, because it is not possible for Communist Members and a progressive group like ours to accept such an agreement both in form and in substance. First, on the form, asking the National Assembly to ratify such an ideological agreement is unbearable. The preamble alone contains three passages which relate more to the mythification of free trade than to the diplomatic writing that we are used to in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I want to read them again – Eric Coquerel did it in part – in a public session so that you would measure the incredible bias of this agreement, which made me think of this famous phrase: "One day I will go to live in theory, because in theory everything is fine. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u182	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u183	First quote: the United States and the European Union are eager to "promote an international air transport system based on competition between air carriers in a market subject to a minimum of state intervention and regulation". Second quote: the same actors recognise that "state aid can distort competition between air carriers and undermine the achievement of the basic objectives" of the agreement. Third quote: the signatory parties intend to "create a global precedent to fully exploit the benefits of liberalization in this essential economic sector". In my opinion, we are swimming in the midst of a fierce liberal economist, an incantatory fantasy of an invisible hand that would mysteriously and absolutely perfectly place things and men at the right time, in the right place. An almost theological perfection! In terms of form, it is therefore impossible for us to approve a text that defends everything we reject: the obsession with state non-intervention and the love of excessive liberalization, the one that breaks the employees and the planet. Free trade brings, far from that, not just happiness to people, and the norms voted by the people's representatives are not just weights for the economy. The rules which our predecessors have voted for and which we regularly propose concern the safety of workers, health standards, the security of professional paths, tax justice, equal pay for men and women, and the safety of users. These laws allow citizens, sometimes wage earners or consumers, to live in a world closer to our republican motto, freedom, equality, fraternity, which reminds us that one cannot go without the other two. We do not vote the laws to increase the weight on businesses, we vote them when we think we need to restore some disorder. It is therefore not possible to vote for such a text. Be careful, however, not to oppose me the caricature of the opponent of free trade folded over himself, populist or even xenophobic. Free trade is not trade between peoples and has never had anything to do with the culture of peace. It's based on competition, it's based on selfishness. We remain convinced that, as one great American intellectual has said, no universal selfishness can bring social good to all. States today are competing with companies that are becoming more powerful than they are. National financial interests have become the only and only compass, oriented in the short term by the world of finance. Our interest is different, and intangible: for us, it is the human first. It is the will to leave no one on the edge of the road, and to produce while respecting as much as possible nature and our planet. If we are opposed to competing with each other, we must admit that it will take a great deal of determination for the world to review its copy, as the large globalized economies are intertwined. But it will be necessary because liberalism is the worst thing to live together in peace in happiness and on a preserved planet. Our opposition to this text is an alert. It indicates our unwavering will to prevent this flight forward, and I invite you to join it, colleagues. How is it possible in the same text to announce that the signatory parties want to promote an air transport system "subject to a minimum of state intervention and regulation" while wishing to maintain a demanding level of safety on board the aircraft? Exacerbated competition will inevitably push companies to erode their margins. In our time, it is the shareholders who capture a huge part of the wealth produced on this planet. It would be a great naivety to believe that the latter will agree to limit their margins a little to move the company forward. It will of course be the rest that will be reduced: the safety conditions for travellers and staff, the quality of service or the quality of the aircraft. We thus decide on a text written for the benefit of the holders of capital and which will benefit on its own, unless we believe in the presidential myth of the first rope, or runoff. As we all know, employees rarely benefit from the fruits of a company's growth at the same level as holders of capital. The strike last week at Air France shows that there is no correlation between the growth of a company's profits and the increase in wages. We deeply regret this, since the results of a company can largely be attributed not to the kindness of its shareholders, but to the efforts and professionalism of its employees. The agreement also provides for increased competition from stakeholders in the sector. This means that there will be housekeeping – it has begun – and only the most powerful actors will win the battle. Once these few champions have survived, they will simply share the cake and the price of the tickets will go up, the decline being the only counterpart to all these sacrifices. The development of the sector will therefore not serve travellers, but shareholders. Finally, I would like to refer to the environmental assessment of civil aviation. Each year, this sector emits about 2% to 3% of COglobal emissions – its impact increases year by year as a result of exponential growth. It committed to freeze its carbon emissions by the end of 2016, but excluding domestic flights, which account for about 40% of the sector's emissions. It is therefore necessary to continue working on less energy-efficient aircraft and to develop alternatives to aircraft, such as rail. The development of rail, supported by investments in the main lines in France, will facilitate long-distance travel and ultimately save CO. It will therefore be necessary to limit domestic flights and promote the train, doing the opposite of what you are about to do in short: to protect the status of railway workers and that of SNCF. With the liberalisation agreements, we are systematically looking for well-being for a cheap price, but I remain convinced that the quality of service and the safety of aircraft suffer from this kind of agreement. When dividends are the constant, everything else becomes the variable. We will not therefore vote for this free trade agreement, because we are not obsessed with numbers and profitability: we are obsessed with the well-being of our citizens, with their safety and security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u184	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u185	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u186	Bill 375, which is on our agenda tonight, is intended to authorize the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, the European Union and its Member States, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway. It was adopted at first reading by the Senate on November 9, 2017, and our Foreign Affairs Committee considered it on January 31, 2017, on Laurence Dumont's report. This bill, which had been tabled in the Senate on August 31, 2016 by Jean-Marc Ayrault, then Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development, thus comes to the end of his parliamentary ratification process after a long and undoubtedly necessary journey that I must remember in order to put the agreement in context. The origins of this agreement: this will be the subject of my remarks before the speeches of my colleagues, which will focus on its modalities and consequences and on the political motivations of our vote. Let us return, therefore, to the purpose and history of this bill. The purpose of this bill is to extend to Iceland and Norway, as if it were two European Union member countries, an air agreement known as the Transatlantic Transport Agreement or the Open Skies Agreement, signed in April 2007 between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States, on the other, together with a supplementary protocol signed in June 2010. It is interesting to come back to this 2007 transatlantic air transport agreement because it refers to the so-called "open sky" judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union dating back to 2002 concerning bilateral agreements concerning eight Member States of the European Community – the United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Austria, Germany and the United States. By these judgments, the European Court of Justice challenged certain provisions of bilateral agreements on the grounds that they constituted an obstacle to the freedom of establishment recognised by the European Treaties and infringed Community competence. Thus, in 2003, on the basis of these judgments, the European Commission was invited to negotiate an agreement with the United States to establish a border-free airspace with the European Union that would replace the bilateral agreements of all Member States. The Transatlantic Air Agreement will not be signed until 2007, after four years of negotiations, on 25 and 30 April, but on condition that negotiations for a second stage are conducted to further open market access, which will lead to the signing of a protocol on 24 June 2010. However, since the conclusion of the "open skies" agreement in 2007, Iceland and Norway have wished to benefit from it, unlike, for example, Switzerland, which, while in a comparable situation of non-accession to the European Union, continues to pursue its own international air policy on the basis of bilateral agreements. Moreover, the applications of Iceland and Norway have seemed all the more natural since both countries already applied, as members of the European Economic Area, all the European Union rules on air transport and also belonged to the European Free Trade Association. In addition, they are also signatories to the 2006 multilateral agreement on the creation of a common European airspace, which establishes a large market covering the territories of the Member States of the European Union, the States of the Western Balkans, Iceland and Norway. This Extension Agreement provides that Iceland and Norway are considered to be members of the European Union for the purposes of the 2007 Agreement and therefore have the same rights and obligations as the Member States. In addition to the text of the agreement with its six articles, the text of the agreement before us includes an annex dedicated to "specific provisions concerning Iceland and Norway" and a joint declaration. Allowing my colleagues to discuss this in more detail, I will conclude by insisting that, after such a long time, the air transport agreement and the ratification bill before us deserve our full attention, even if this treaty is of modest scope, as has been pointed out. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This debate in open session allows for the expression of all sensitivities. At the end of this long process of ratification, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u188	Mr Michel Fanget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u189	The agreement on which we are proposed concerns an important issue: the European Union's air policy. It is a continuation of the so-called "open skies" agreement between the European Union and the United States in 2007, which was amended in 2010, with the aim of liberalising transatlantic air traffic. Today, it is not a matter of reviewing this agreement, but of deciding on its enlargement to include two new partners, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway. The main consequence of this Agreement for France and its European partners will therefore be to formally authorise airlines in the Member States to freely offer flights between Iceland or Norway and the United States and, reciprocally, airlines in those two countries to offer flights between Union airports and the United States. When reading this agreement, it is legitimate to consider what consequences it could have, in particular from an ecological and competitive point of view. With regard to competitive analysis, it should be borne in mind that the entry into force of this agreement will probably only marginally lead to the opening of new routes, as airlines in the countries concerned are already able to operate airlines with the United States, including from EU territory, through the establishment of local subsidiaries. Moreover, the economic stake for our country should not be of the first order, since the demographic weight of the two countries concerned is, it has been said, relatively modest: we are talking about 5 million inhabitants for Norway and 330,000 for Iceland. In view of the 830 million inhabitants of the European Union and the United States as a whole, the volumes in question are not in a position to distort the current balance, nor to have consequences for a company such as Air France. The second topic is the environmental consequences of the implementation of such agreements. On reading the elements provided in the report, which we discussed in committee, air transport would account for between 2 and 5 per cent of total greenhouse gas emissions. This may not seem much, but it is, as has been said earlier, the most polluting mode of transport per passenger per kilometre travelled. It should be borne in mind that air transport is an important lever on which to act to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Technological innovations play a major role here, but they are probably not enough: we must also commit ourselves further to better regulation of air traffic at European and international level, with the aim, which must be common to us, of reducing its ecological footprint. We therefore call on the Government and the European authorities to continue their efforts of conviction at the international level, an effort which has already proved its effectiveness, since it convinced the International Civil Aviation Organization, in the autumn of 2016, to provide the aviation sector with a universal and binding mechanism to control its carbon dioxide emissions, which is very encouraging. However, this Agreement is limited to Iceland and Norway, two small countries. The possible new lines that these two countries would open should not have a significant environmental impact. It seems important to us to stress that Norway and Iceland already have very high environmental standards. Norway, in particular, plays an important role in the field of climate and the environment, particularly in the context of the implementation of the Paris climate agreement, as the President of the Republic recalled on 27 February at his joint press conference with the Prime Minister of Norway. Of course we are concerned about the negative effects, particularly on the environment, of too much liberalization of air traffic, but there seems to be little concern in this case: under this agreement Iceland and Norway will enjoy the same rights and will be subject to the same obligations as Member States for the operation of air transport services with the United States. The application of this Agreement will therefore allow for the uniform treatment, within a harmonised regulatory framework, of all transatlantic flights between the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iceland and Norway, on the one hand, and the United States, on the other. In addition to the economic benefits it presents, the integration of these two countries into the "open sky" agreement is part of the movement, positive from our point of view, for the dissemination and application of European standards. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] This bill has been passed in committee, and we see no substantial reason to oppose it today. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote for it, and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u191	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u192	We are considering the bill authorizing the ratification of the air transport agreement signed in June 2011 between the European Union, the United States, Iceland and Norway. The examination of this type of technical text is traditionally fast, and the nature of it allows me already to announce that the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote for its adoption. Today we are in the presence of a text that is in continuity, within a general framework, that of the European Union's external air policy, while having a much more limited scope, namely to extend an element of this policy to two countries of the European Economic Area which have a modest demographic and economic weight. With this new agreement, Norway and Iceland will enjoy the same rights and will be subject to the same obligations as Member States for the operation of air transport services with the United States. This is a way of extending to these two countries, not members of the European Union, certain benefits which it can bring. The construction of Europe has assumed, from the outset, the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States in various fields. The inclusion of the United States in this air service process, in 2007, and the inclusion of Iceland and Norway, now, are proof of the cordial relations that States have with Europe. They reveal a desire for economic expansion on the part of each of the parties. As a reminder, the United States and the European Union had signed an "open skies" agreement in 2007, which led to the recognition by the United States of the "European nationality" of our airlines. By this means, the number of flights is no longer subject to restrictions, prices are fixed according to the market and companies can sign cooperation agreements. This agreement, which replaced the former bilateral agreements between the European countries and the United States, has made it possible to liberalise transatlantic air transport between the Union and the United States. In 2007, Iceland and Norway announced their intention to join the Open Skies Agreement. Subsequently, in November 2010, the relevant Joint Committee drew up a proposal for an extension agreement. The bill before us today is intended to authorize ratification of this agreement. The aim is therefore to open the "open skies" treaty to two new states, Iceland and Norway, European countries which are not, however, part of the European Union. The enlargement envisaged by this agreement is beneficial not only to the European Union from an economic point of view, but also from the point of view of its economic influence and that of its standards. The implementation of this Agreement will allow further liberalization of transatlantic air services started in 2007. The main consequence of the agreement will be to formally authorise airlines in the Member States to freely offer flights between Iceland or Norway and the United States and, vice versa, airlines in those two countries to offer flights between EU airports and the United States. I come to the doubts that some might have about this proposed extension to two new countries, in particular about a possible increase in the number of flights. Firstly, the "open sky" agreement does not appear to have had a significant impact on transatlantic air traffic: traffic between the European Union and the United States increased from 52.13 million passengers in 2007 to 56.65 million in 2016, an increase of less than 9%; At the same time, traffic between France and the United States increased from 6.2 million passengers to 7.21 million passengers. These moderate developments are probably due to two factors: the already high level of development and liberalisation of transatlantic air transport prior to the entry into force of the agreement and, in part, the impact of the 2008 financial crisis. Secondly, the demographic and economic weight of the two new members of the Euro-American Open Skies Agreement is relatively modest: Norway has 5.2 million inhabitants and Iceland 330000, while the European Union and the United States have more than 830 million. In addition, these two new members, members of the European Economic Area, already apply all the European regulations relating to the air transport sector and, more generally, high social and environmental standards. For all these reasons, considering the consequences of the development of air traffic, the economic, social and environmental impact of the agreement should be limited. It will be up to us to remain mobilized on this issue. Furthermore, the extension of the amended 2007 air transport agreement should not pose any problems as Iceland and Norway appear to be natural candidates for the agreement. Members of the European Economic Area, they already apply, as I said, all the European Union rules on air transport. The European Union has everything to gain from concluding agreements with countries that could become future members. The proliferation of partnerships with these two countries, by imposing the same terms and conditions on each, will greatly facilitate their possible integration. Let us add that these two economically stable and relatively powerful countries are major assets, especially since the departure of the United Kingdom. This agreement is therefore, however, part of a certain logic of integration of the two countries into the European Union. Already somewhat integrated into the Union, Iceland and Norway can benefit from their accession to the Open Skies Agreement, which will strengthen cooperation and ultimately facilitate a possible new application. On the other hand, it is a matter, in continuity, of establishing economic relations between the European Union and other major powers. Already in 2007, the simple establishment of the agreement, initially with the United States, the world's second largest economic power, could only be beneficial. The inclusion of Iceland and Norway now opens up new possibilities and consolidates the agreement. This normative framework allows the development of flights between all parties, with the same advantages and constraints. This basis from which the signatory countries must evolve allows each country to facilitate trade and liberalize the market, resulting in increased economic trade in this area. Finally, this four-party agreement will be equally beneficial to the United States: it will allow them to take advantage of the benefits of trade with the European Union. These two important economic blocs maintain their economic and diplomatic relations. Through this agreement, they expand the areas of partnership and establish a certain airframework based on common requirements. This cooperation is, once again, proof of stable relations, from which everyone can benefit. For all these reasons, we believe it is necessary to validate this agreement and to continue to increase partnerships, on the one hand with countries outside the European Union, in order to strengthen its diplomatic weight, and, on the other hand, with European countries, which could possibly integrate political and economic union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u193	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u194	Allow me, just a few hours before Women's Rights Day, to dedicate this speech to French airwomen, whose name is probably rarely mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u195	Ah! Hélène Boucher?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u196	You've got it! But first Maryse Bastié, who broke the international record of distance travelled; Hélène Boucher, one of the best acrobatics, feminist; Jacqueline Auriol, first female test pilot. And others: Adrienne Bolland and Caroline Aigle, too soon disappeared, unfortunately. But let's get to the point. Given the links Iceland and Norway have with the European Union, these two countries appear to be natural candidates for the extension of the 2007 Transatlantic Air Transport Agreement. Indeed, Norway is one of the closest partners to the European Union and it is Norway's largest trading partner. Iceland has joined the Schengen area and has applied the Convention since 2001. Both are members of the European Free Trade Association and the European Economic Area. As such, Iceland and Norway apply all European air transport regulations. The air carriers of these two countries are considered, with regard to the internal market alone, to be European carriers and therefore enjoy the same rights. In addition, both countries are also signatories to the 2006 multilateral agreement on the creation of a common European airspace, which establishes a large market covering the territory of the Member States of the European Union, the States of the Western Balkans, Iceland and Norway. This extension agreement provides that Iceland and Norway are considered to be members of the European Union for the purposes of the 2007 Agreement and therefore have the same rights and obligations as the Member States. European, Icelandic and Norwegian air carriers, like their US counterparts, will now be able to offer services between any airport in the European Union, Iceland and Norway, and any US airport. While the extension of the 2007 Agreement to Iceland and Norway opens up new markets, the latter's interest is limited for the EU's regular airlines. Indeed, as President Marielle de Sarnez pointed out, Iceland and Norway offer few opportunities because of their small population and the existence of strong air carriers in these two countries. Iceland has Icelandair and the low-cost company WOW air; and Norway, the traditional scheduled air carrier SAS and the low-cost company Norwegian. On the other hand, the extension agreement opens up a European market of 500 million potential consumers to air carriers in these two countries. However, its economic impact should be limited as Norwegian has already developed a network of transatlantic links from several Member States. In addition, it has established two subsidiaries in the European Union, one in Ireland and the other in the United Kingdom. Moreover, in terms of investment, this extension agreement will allow European interests to invest in Icelandic and Norwegian airlines without losing traffic rights in transatlantic markets. In this way, Europeans will benefit from reciprocity in terms of investment opportunities in these two countries' air carriers. The Agreement extends to Iceland and Norway the environmental provisions of the Air Transport Agreement as amended by the Protocol. These provisions affirm the importance of protecting the environment in the development and implementation of international aviation policy. They confirm the commitment to apply the principle of a balanced approach to define possible noise-related operating restrictions at airports. Finally, they plan to strengthen cooperation with a view to addressing the environmental impact of international aviation, as the rapporteur mentioned. The extension of these provisions to the transatlantic air services between Iceland and Norway and the United States is therefore positive and reinforces the position of the European Union in its environmental approach. Therefore, our group supports the bill. [[Applause on all benches]] I will naturally end by quoting two Norwegian airwomen, echoing the three French women I mentioned at the beginning of my speech: Gidsken Jakobsen, one of the pioneers, and Mette Grøtteland, the first Norwegian female fighter pilot. Your applause will be for these exceptional women, pioneers of aviation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u197	On the single bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u198	We can check that a member of our group took part in the election!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u199	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u200	The Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, the European Union and its Member States, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway was signed in June 2011. The purpose of this agreement is to extend to Iceland and Norway, as if they were full members of the European Union, the air transport agreement signed on 25 and 30 April 2007. This new agreement maintains the bilateral character of the previous agreement in 2007, as the European Union, its Member States, Iceland and Norway will have to speak with one voice. The 2007 Agreement between the European Union, its Member States and the United States established the single legal framework for air transport between the territory of the Member States of the European Union and the territory of the United States. In order to maximize the benefits for consumers, air carriers, workers and people on both sides of the Atlantic, the possibility was opened to extend this agreement to third countries. Iceland and Norway made their interest known as early as 2007. As the impact assessment points out, Norway and Iceland were logical candidates and expected to be included in the agreement. Both countries apply all Community rules to air transport. Their air carriers are considered in the light of the internal market, to which they have unrestricted access, as European Union air carriers. They are also part of the 2006 multilateral agreement on the creation of a common European airspace, which establishes a large market covering the territory of the Member States of the European Union, the States of the Western Balkans, Iceland and Norway. This agreement harmonises the trade framework and reinforces the consistency of the regulatory framework for air transport, Iceland and Norway being considered as EU Member States for the application of this provision. In this context, Iceland and Norway will enjoy the same rights and will be subject to the same obligations as the Member States. The 2007 agreement had little effect on an already open and highly competitive market. Between 2007 and 2016, passenger traffic between the European Union and the United States increased from 52 million passengers to only 56 million passengers, an increase of about 9%. The extension of the Agreement to Norway and Iceland should therefore have limited consequences, both in terms of the level of traffic between these countries and the United States and in terms of their economic model, more oriented towards a policy of connecting platforms than towards point-to-point links. As of 26 January 2018, 15 States have ratified the Agreement: Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Italy, Germany, Belgium and Slovenia. As established by Article 5 of the 2011 Agreement, the Agreement applies provisionally. As a reminder, the 2007 Agreement, like the 2010 Protocol, is still being provisionally applied. The bill authorizing ratification of the 2011 agreement was passed by the Senate on first reading on November 9, 2017. The 2007 agreement liberalises transatlantic air services by providing for the full opening of transatlantic routes to European and US airlines. It mainly allows European and American air carriers to operate international routes freely between the European Union and the United States, and routes beyond the European Union and the United States to third countries, without any limitation on the number of routes, the frequency of service and the capacity of aircraft. In the field of freight, it authorizes them to operate roads disconnected from their original territory. In order to adapt the 2007 Agreement and the 2010 Protocol, the 2011 Agreement specifies the modalities for the participation of Iceland and Norway in the Joint Committee established by the Air Transport Agreement as amended by that Protocol, as these two States are already informally associated with the meetings of the Joint Committee. The 2011 Agreement also lays down the modalities for arbitration procedures or suspension of traffic rights, and specifies that Iceland and Norway enjoy all rights and are subject to all obligations of the Member States. European, Icelandic and Norwegian air carriers, like their US counterparts, will now be able to offer services between any airport in the European Union, Iceland and Norway, and any US airport. This is a real step forward for the European Union on American territory. As regards investment, the Air Transport Agreement has already provided for the possibility for Icelandic or Norwegian investors to own and control an EU air transport undertaking. On the other hand, the agreement will reinforce the possibility for European interests to invest in Icelandic and Norwegian airlines, avoiding the risk of losing traffic rights in transatlantic markets. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Strengthening the coherence of the legal framework for transatlantic air transport permitted by the Agreement concerns key areas of air transport such as aviation security and security, competition, State subsidies and aid, the environment, consumer protection and customs and tax duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u201	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u202	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u203	I put the single article to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u204	No Member of the LR Group is present in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-06-O1153.u205	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Air Services Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Government of the State of Israel, on the other; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the extradition convention signed on 2 May 2007 between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the State of the United Arab Emirates; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Union of the Comoros. The meeting is adjourned.
