ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Christophe Naegelen and several of his colleagues to regulate the opening of telephone calls and to combat fraudulent calls (No 1284, 1448).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u2	Mr Christophe Naegelen, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u3	Our fellow citizens are unanimous in saying that the untimely calls received at home are a real plague. That is why, since the beginning of the mandate, I have been working on this subject. First of all, in May 2018 I tabled a bill advocating opt-in, similar in spirit to that proposed by our colleague Pierre Cordier and debated in a public session in June 2018. To be quite honest, these two texts themselves included a previous proposal to strengthen consumer rights in the area of telephone stalling, tabled in 2011 in the Senate by Mr.Jacques Mézard. In view of the complexity of the subject, I have continued the hearings and the research, and it must be admitted that my vision has evolved: on the one hand on the arbitration between the opt-in, where any stalling is prohibited except with express consent, and the opt-out, where the stalling is allowed unless an opposition is expressed by an inscription to the Blockel device; On the other hand, the idea was that, since the term "telephone pick-up" was not used, other forms of inconvenience should also be dealt with. Indeed, the mere fact that the phone is ringing is assimilated by our fellow citizens to stalling, but this call may have four origins: virtuous companies registered in the Blockel device, whose files have been cleaned and who call only people who have not joined the service; companies that, more or less intentionally, are illegal by calling citizens at home without having "blocked" their files; Automates, which can be classified into four categories; and intentionally fraudulent actors, which, depending on the year, account for between 20 and 40 per cent of calls. The opt-in, proposed by some, would only punish virtuous enterprises, with serious consequences for employment, while forgetting the three other cases mentioned above. On the other hand, the current system, which is based on the Blockel opposition list, is currently not exhaustive and therefore does not render the requested service. That is why I wanted to strengthen the effectiveness of this mechanism, but also to take into account the importance of telephone opening for the economic activity of our country. Outbound calls today provide 56000 full-time equivalents – FTEs – in France, i.e., much more jobs, because many jobs are part-time. In addition, taking into account indirect jobs – particularly in the so-called "support" functions of call centres – and the resulting jobs, the total is much higher. For the entire customer relationship, the number of direct jobs is 275,000. These jobs are mostly located in our territories and represent a first entry into the world of work for many young people. Of course, working conditions are not always obvious, but they are improving and, of course, they are in line with all the requirements of our labour law. Moreover, it is also necessary for the survival of our companies, in particular our TPEs and SMEs, for whom advertising in the print press, by poster or by radio, is, from a financial point of view, more difficult to access. That is why I did not find it desirable to prohibit telephone stalling or to replace it with a system of prior consent. Four reasons explain my position: such a system would be very difficult to implement; it would significantly harm the activities of our companies; it would lead to a flight of call centres abroad; and above all, it would not solve anything, because illegal companies would continue to do so. I originally proposed five articles, which were enriched and strengthened in committee thanks to the 21 amendments adopted, 15 of which were on my proposal. We have strengthened and simplified the requirement to present the caller at the beginning of the appeal, so that the consumer can be assured of all the relevant information and perceives the commercial nature of the call. We have introduced the obligation for companies to submit to Bloctel before any start-up, and we have reinforced the penalties for those who violate this system. Thanks to amendments from the MODEM Group, we have increased the penalties for people who do not comply with the obligation to submit at the beginning of the call or using masked numbers. We asked the Government for a report on the improvement of the right of opposition to the standstill, in order to have concrete elements of evolution, and for a regular audit of the effectiveness of the delegate, once in a period of public service delegation. We have clarified the right of professionals to approach their customers, to limit them to six months after the last contract has been executed in order to frame practices that go too far today. We have introduced a measure to make mandatory the publication of the sanctions of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF. Finally, we have put in place an obligation for companies that are approaching to comply with a charter of good practices that Blotel or his successor will apply, subject to sanctions. It is a question of regulating marketing practices, because it is not because a consumer has not formally objected to being out of the market that he agrees to be out of the market at any time or several times a day by the same person! This bill also adds an additional dimension: the fight against fraud with overtaxed numbers. This is indeed a growing phenomenon, which is a very serious harm to a large number of French people, especially among the most vulnerable populations: I am thinking of the elderly, but also of young people, easily fooled by the promise of rapid gains, contests or branded products. This fraud takes many forms, but in particular that of messages on your answering machine, prompting you to call a supertaxed number to move a medical appointment or to pick up a package waiting for you. At the end of the line, a teleadvisor will try to keep you as long as possible, or even to have you recalled several numbers successively. Meanwhile, your account will be debited without you being aware of it. It will then be extremely difficult for you to have your damage recognized and to be reimbursed. This is why Article 6 proposes to entrust genuine responsibility to telephone operators by allowing them, as soon as they are aware of fraud by any means, to suspend access to the telephone number deemed fraudulent, as well as to other numbers assigned to that publisher. They can already try to do so today, but they are at great risk, because they lack the legal basis that I want to give them. For example, Viva Multimedia, acting as an intermediary for fraudulent value-added service providers, has recently been convicted of an organized band scam that has earned her €38 million over three years. A few months earlier, his operator – Colt – had tried to suspend his line in order to put an end to his obvious actions. Viva Multimedia had filed a complaint with the commercial court, which had given him reason and ordered Colt to reinstate the line, considering that the suspension could be discriminatory and unfounded. Viva Multimedia was able to prosecute his fraud for several months, before the justice system took an interest in it, opened an investigation and charged the suspects. Today it is our responsibility not to allow such action to happen again and to allow operators to act ethically, as they themselves wish, without fear of being disavowed by justice. The bill already opened up the possibility for them to do so, but we have introduced in committee an extremely important additional article, which makes the suspension of fraudulent numbers by operators an obligation if DGCCRF sends them an injunction to that effect. This will put all operators on an equal footing and not allow some to be more lax than others with respect to questionable behaviour, under penalty. The aim of this bill is to be both balanced and protective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u5	It is fair and balanced because, while defending consumers, it also seeks to preserve employment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u6	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LR and LaREM groups]] It is protective for our citizens, both against nuisances and fraud. The aim is to put an end to a double form of illegality which is exercised, on the one hand, by the pressure to buy on vulnerable people and, on the other hand, by the incentive to call overtaxed numbers. The tranquillity of our fellow citizens must be guaranteed. I hope that our discussions today will be as constructive as they are in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u8	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u9	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u10	We all agree that untimely and repeated telephone calls are a nuisance for our fellow citizens. Of course, the Government shares the objective of better combating these practices that inspire the bill. We are aware that the current situation is not satisfactory for many French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u11	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u12	I would like to welcome the work of the Members who have enriched and improved the original text in committee. The Government was in favour of its spirit and some of the measures it planned, but wished to consider some others. This is a complex issue both technically and in terms of the impact it can have on behaviour and employment. The absence of an impact assessment does not put us in a comfortable position to take a position on all the proposals, but it seems appropriate to better frame the obligations of transparency of the gaiter at the beginning of the conversation with the consumer, as provided for in Article 1. It is also necessary to strengthen the effectiveness of Bloctel, which, let us recall, still lists today nearly 4 million people and 8 million telephone numbers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u13	He's inefficient! It's a failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u14	On the other hand, the Government is reserved for provisions that, without providing an effective response to fraud, would penalize regulatoryly compliant marketing and threaten many jobs. This is the case in the case of the measure of assuming that the consumer is in principle opposed to any stalling, and of making it illegal if it has not been explicitly authorised. The discussions in this text show that it is necessary to continue working to ensure the best possible level of protection for our citizens while ensuring the robustness of the proposed solutions. In addition, the Government considers it necessary that any initiatives that may be taken should be the subject of prior consultation with consumer associations and representatives of the economic world. As you know, this consultation was initiated when the first bill was tabled six months ago; It is expected to be completed in the coming weeks. Consumer associations are very sensitive to the fact that their proposals are taken into account – which is not illegitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u15	Thanks to the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u16	During the examination of the bill a few months ago, the Secretary of State asked DGCCRF to initiate this work; Its conclusions are expected and I propose to include them in our reflection on several points. The Government also wants the Blockel system to be strengthened: it must be better known and its circumvention more severely punished. We are in favour of stepping up the sanctions against companies that engage in telephone marketing without submitting their lists to Bloctel, in order to make them truly dissuasive. In this regard, the bill we are discussing today is welcome: to date, 103 administrative minutes have been prepared and three criminal proceedings have been initiated. Consumers also need to be made aware of the importance of reporting and the need to properly inform Blockel about calls received. This will be the subject of a communication action, which will also be directed towards businesses. At present, some 700 companies have joined Bloctel, which seems to be very insufficient. Finally, the Blockel interface needs to be evaluated and improved. The work of the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image – CNC – can usefully inform us on this point. It will also be necessary to pay attention to Bloctel's tariffs and to ensure that they do not appear as a mandatory contribution, as the sensitivity of the moment is keen on everything that is like a tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u17	An extra tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u18	We must also fight against other fraudulent practices that are the source of untimely appeals. Nearly a quarter of the complaints would be based on attempts at overtaxed number fraud. The DGCCRF has recently taken major action in Gironde against twenty-two companies that have engaged in illegal telephone stalls and, for some, fraudulent practices such as the illegal use of victims' bank details. Very often, these practices come from professionals established abroad. Again, consumers need to be better informed about the measures that have been taken to protect them. We have just made mandatory the offer by telephone operators of an option to block subscribers' calls to overtaxed numbers. Let's talk about it! DGCCRF will continue and intensify its control policy and cooperation with the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes – ARCEP – and telecom operators, so that offenders are punished and preventive measures against this increased fraud. Work is under way to tighten the regulations. You wanted to implement a "name and shame" policy. I am entirely in favour of this, given that it does deal with telephone stalling, is proportionate and leaves to the administration the assessment of a right to error for our TPEs and SMEs. It will be a strong deterrent to companies engaging in such practices, I am sure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are determined to identify all the avenues that will better regulate the stalling, stop its nuisances and, above all, punish fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u19	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Demilly spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u20	On 15 May last, in a question-and-answer session with the Government, I spoke to many of our fellow citizens who regularly alert us to the scourge of telephone stalling that they often experience, rightly, as well as harassment. People who are most exposed to these daily untimely calls are often the most vulnerable and vulnerable, especially the elderly. For the latter, being disturbed at any time of the day or evening is particularly anxious. Some retirees no longer respond to the telephone for this reason, which may have adverse consequences in the event of an emergency. For assets, receiving commercial calls during lunch break, dinner or weekends is an important source of agitation. I am also thinking of those who, working at night or having binding hours, are regularly disturbed during their rest periods. While the legislator has taken note of the problem, the existing arrangements are clearly insufficient. In 2014, the Consumer Act, known as the Hamon Act, opened the field for Bloctel service, which was launched on 1 June 2016. On this list of telephone objections aimed at curbing unwanted stalling, telephone numbers are registered for a three-year renewable period and it is prohibited for professionals to call registrants, under penalty of a fine. The service is managed by Opposetel, designated as part of a public service delegation that runs until 2021. More than two years after its launch, Bloctel's effectiveness is not felt on the ground – sweet euphemism to say, if I rely on the testimony that I receive from the inhabitants of my constituency, that this device does not work at all. At first glance, we might think that it is simply unknown. Yet, seven months ago, in response to my question, the then Secretary of State for Consumer Affairs spoke of 3.7 million people and 8.5 million telephone numbers on Blockel. It stated that "the contact details of the consumers registered for this service were removed from 180,000 prospecting files," which, in its view, would correspond to "many billions of calls avoided". However, if we compare these figures with the experience on the ground, we find that the problem is elsewhere. In fact, only 800 companies have joined the system and have Bloctel's numbers removed from their prospecting files. In addition, Blockel freely decides whether or not to transfer the claims to the DGCCRF. Estimates vary, but the CRFB would have penalized about 100 offending companies, which is extremely little related to the magnitude of the scourge. Investigations are also lengthy and complex, as some companies have developed complex techniques to avoid compliance with regulations, such as the usurpation of telephone numbers, the use of long channels of intermediaries, or location abroad. Furthermore, the inherent difficulties in the organization of the telecommunications market make it difficult to verify the company to which a telephone number is assigned. In the most fraudulent cases, companies wishing to continue to approach without being blocked by the list change their name and get new phone numbers allowing them to start over without these numbers being listed quickly in the opposition list managed by Blockel. These elements, put to an end, certainly explain the feelings of our fellow citizens. In 2017, one year after Bloctel was set up, a 60 million consumer survey revealed that almost half of the registered individuals did not see any decrease in the number of calls.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u22	According to consumers, the information to be provided in order to report abuse is far too numerous and this approach is perceived as too complex. Last May, in her answer to my question, the Secretary of State had admitted that "Bloctel's effect remains unsatisfactory because too many companies do not comply with the regulations." She added: "This is unacceptable and calls for both more pedagogy and more severity towards companies. » The observation is therefore shared; This is the subject of our debate. Aware of the dismay of many French people, my group supported Pierre Cordier's bill last June. The one presented today by our brilliant colleague Christophe Naegelen, of whom I am a co-signatory, has been the subject of extensive work to ensure that the scheme better protects our citizens and asserts their rights. The group I represent therefore fully subscribes to it. The examination in committee last week took place as should the examination of all the parliamentary own-initiative texts, that is to say in a constructive way, to use a word to which our group is very attached. After many amendments and rich exchanges, the bill was adopted unanimously. Yes, unanimously, which is rare! The rapporteur and the majority have both taken a step towards achieving a truly operational text. A number of measures have thus been validated which I would like to recall: Article 1 obliges the gaiter to show his identity, the social identity of the person on whose behalf he is making the call, and the commercial nature of the call; Article 1a, added in committee, obliges companies to ensure that their prospecting files comply with the Blockel list; Finally, Article 8, also added in committee, puts in place the "name and shame" that you have already mentioned, i.e. the publication of the DGCCRF sanctions and the names of the wrong companies. Once these measures are in force, it will be necessary to ensure their effectiveness and therefore to provide for regular monitoring and reporting of fraud, which must be provided with sufficient means to act accordingly. Other measures in this apparently consensus bill are in the direction of an improvement of Bloctel. I am thinking of the removal of the exception which allows companies to approach persons registered on Bloctel if they have already had contractual relations with them, or the tightening of administrative sanctions in case of appeal, despite the registration on Bloctel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u24	However, I personally regret that the opt-in system has not been retained. No stalling without express consent: the simplest, most legible, most visible and easy device was to register to give his consent to the telephone stalling, having the possibility to unsubscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u25	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u26	Nevertheless, this proposal has the merit of focusing on a number of practical operational measures, such as strengthening consumer protection, increasing sanctions, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u28	... the fight against fraudulent calls or the supervision of the practices of start-up companies and telephone operators. Very important sanctions will have to be imposed in the event of non-compliance with these new obligations. As such, I hope that this greater firmness will deter some malicious companies. The sanctions, which have already been reinforced in the original version of the bill, have also been further extended during the committee review, which I can only welcome. The use of automatons verifying the correct allocation of numbers or the presence at the consumer's home before triggering a real call will also be prohibited. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we denounce the large-scale marketing techniques that give rise to the greatest number of consumer disputes, with victims sometimes giving their consent to subscriptions or purchases by being subjected to a form of pressure. Our group therefore fully supports this bill, which addresses the current problem of further protecting our citizens by being effective in the long term. The answers to our written questions and our oral questions to the Government also show that the executive has become aware that the current situation is in no way satisfactory. Our debates have shown, and should continue to show, that Parliament wants to move things forward on this issue by continuing the constructive work done with all the political groups in our House. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU, Act and Independent Group]] With this proposal from the IDU Group, Action and Independents, we have the opportunity to develop a mechanism that, by the admission of all, has failed. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take this wonderful opportunity. Your fellow citizens will thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u29	We have a permutation of speakers. The next speaker is Mr Dominique Potier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u30	[[Smile]] I support the Socialist and related group in this bill. After a seminar of reflection, a symposium and three consecutive round tables, we have chosen to support unanimously this very strong, unprecedented and disruptive political initiative which will bring a clarification in the current stormy climate. National unity is happening around you! Of course, I say it with a little humour, but it is still true that this pragmatic proposal brings us together, as was the case recently with the proposal for a law on shellfish farming. Other subjects allow our unity: for example, Serge Letchimy will shortly defend a bill for the overseas countries that will resolve issues of individual inheritance and unlock incredibly complex situations. [[Mrs Annaig Le Meur, Mr Stéphane Demilly and Mr Christophe Naegelen, rapporteur, applaud]] I am delighted every time the Assembly legifies in good humour and unity by allowing controversies which, far from the mortifying fictions of the type "no right, no left", structure the democratic debate. Unity whenever possible, pragmatically, and a real place for political debate: this is the Assembly as I love it, as we love it, and perhaps as we should imagine it for the future! I'm getting to the bottom. Sometimes, our new colleagues from the Republic on the march discover America and the "new world"... Without insulting them politically to tell them that they are doing the "Hamon II Law", I want to remind them that consumer protection has a history. In the work on the Hamon law of 17 March 2014, the issue of the Blockel file had been raised. Some Members cautioned against the economic risks to mail-order activity: lobbying had therefore been expressed. We must not ignore the economic impact of the decisions we make, but we came to the conclusion that it was essential to distinguish between the right and the wrong economy. Good economy is governed by rules that are first and foremost the loyalty that prohibits harassing or manipulating the consumer. We had, together, found a fair measure, which proved to be insufficient. We must be humble and recognize that we have made only part of the way. Today, you take the thread back to respond to the exasperation of our fellow citizens. The Government's unsatisfied response to a written question I had tabled in June – I will not have the cruelty to read it to you, but, in short, everything goes well, we control, we sanction – seems a little outdated today, since we are gathered to strengthen obligations and sanctions in order to combat the phenomenon of slamming. The bill that I have no doubt we are going to pass is the fruit of a story. I like when left and right are able to agree to write a new page. Since my speaking time allows me to do so, I am extending the point a little bit. In the framework of the Hamon law, I had conducted with the help of Crésus, the Catholic Relief and other associations, a reflection on the evolution of the Lagarde law that protected the consumer from the excesses of the revolving credit. In particular, we had adopted several provisions on the statute of limitations for prosecution and on consumer information – starting with 3000 euros – the obligation to submit an alternative offer of conventional products – in order to limit the use of revolving credit whose effects on household debt are disastrous. I am delighted that the Lagarde law and the Hamon law have helped to reduce household over-indebtedness – the Banque de France, Crésus, the Secours catholique, all recognize it. The fight for consumer protection is producing results. Madam Secretary of State, we are concerned about the future transposition of a European directive which would have the effect of annihilating the measures taken by successive majorities to protect consumers. I hope that this project will be reviewed. We cannot, here, protect consumers from telephone harassment and, at the same time, disturb them, manipulate them, impoverish them by adopting provisions on revolving credit that would benefit only the two main banks that offer them, the same ones that are most present in tax havens. We cannot give in to such pressure and be the useful fools of the European Union by applying provisions that would be contrary to the interests of consumers. We have succeeded, through intelligent and common work, in reducing household debt. Let us not destroy what we have built and remain faithful to the European spirit of building an ethical economy for the 21st century. See you at the beginning of next year to reject this European directive or to transpose it into intelligent terms and in line with the European narrative whose compass cannot be disloyalty but the ethical principles of a good and healthy economy. Finally, Mr rapporteur, I know that you have been sensitive to the alarm cry I made: we are at the age of stone when it comes to the Internet. In this area, we must seek a level of civility and anonymity that we are far from achieving. We need to regulate everything that can disrupt the discernment of subjects free from the rule of law. This intelligence is now being flouted on the Internet – the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs is convinced of this. The parliamentary group that will deal with this matter, whatever it may be, will get everyone else's approval. We need to open a debate on the civilization of the Internet and on the respect of the consumer as a citizen to avoid all manipulations, whether ideological, cultural or political – we see the seriousness of this in the current period; This is evidenced by the absence of filters in the face of a word that is freed and that constantly frees itself from the rules and values that bring us together, those of the Republic. We must help consumers to be free and to exercise their discernment in order to support the creation of an economy that meets the challenges of the 21st century. [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mrs. Annaig Le Meur also applauds]] In short, I propose to pass this bill, to be vigilant about renewable credit and to open up a reflection now on digital democracy that requires civility rules that we are very far from having today. Thank you for your work. Let us rejoice at the moment and do not miss the appointments of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u31	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u32	Last June, we had the opportunity to discuss a first text aimed at strengthening consumer rights in the area of telephone marketing. We welcomed this initiative, which included some of the flagship proposals of consumer protection associations. In its original wording, this text provided for the implementation of a system which exists in some 10 European countries and which has proved to be effective: it is a matter of allowing telephone entry only to consumers who expressly agree that their personal data may be used for commercial purposes. This essential consumer protection measure has been censored by the majority on the grounds that the principle of prior compulsory consent could undermine the economic viability of certain stalling companies. This is an argument that the authors of the text that we are considering today take on their own, but which we believe is not admissible. This is the one used by the lobby of call centres, most of which are relocated abroad. If we want to protect employment in France, let's start by repatriating employment in France. As Jacques Mézard already indicated in 2014 – he was then a senator – "most call centres operate from Morocco, India or elsewhere. The 110,000 jobs outstanding are therefore a smoke shop! » If, moreover, we know that the companies concerned are generally unscrupulous and adherent to aggressive practices which are often at the limit of legality, we can only be surprised by such a stance. The business of a few matters more to the majority than the tranquillity of all and the right of everyone not to be bothered at any hour at home. We continue to believe that the very effectiveness of the fight against untimely stalling requires a shift from a right-of-opposition regime to a prior consent regime. We therefore consider that the part of your text relating to the telephone stalling remains very inadequate. If the measures you are proposing to us lack ambition, they are also not uninteresting. Better information for consumers on the existence of the Bloctel service, an audit of the Bloctel service in order to improve its service and to remedy its dysfunctions, the strengthening of sanctions: all these measures are obviously in the right direction. The main innovation of the text probably lies in its Article 6, which aims to empower operators in the fight against fraudulent calls. The fraudulent calls, the fraud of overtaxed numbers and the calls generated by robots had indeed remained outside the scope of the previous text. Since 28-40% of untimely calls for consumer alerts do not fall within the scope of the stalling but rather of the fraudulent call, these measures are very welcome. We shall therefore vote without hesitation in favour of this text. I conclude by referring, as I did in June, to the situation of vulnerable people, whether they are adolescents or the elderly, in the face of purchasing pressures and abuse of weakness. Today, the number of victims of abuse of weakness is estimated to be more than 40,000 each year in France, among them very many seniors and single persons who represent a privileged target for some commercial companies making use of sales techniques sometimes at the limit of legality. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] An investigation revealed in 2008 that one out of every three elderly people felt that they were victims of financial abuse. The phenomenon of commercial harassment is involved, and some of them are in financial difficulties. Forced sales, scams, misappropriation of money or property are at the top of the list of abuses. Our right is not adapted to combat this real business from the abuse of weakness. That is why it would be useful for us to collectively address this issue, for example, by considering the possibility of a reversal of the burden of proof in terms of abuse of weakness or ignorance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u33	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u34	After yesterday's sitting, which was under the sign of solemnity and gravity, we have returned to subjects that are lighter but nevertheless important to our fellow citizens. The greatness of this assembly lies in this alternation between major societal debates and management of land-based issues. If this bill can appear in the meantime as we are going through, it aims to respond to a real annoyance from the French, and the debate that is taking place this morning will only contribute to the necessary reconciliation between parliamentary work and the perception of the people we represent. I would therefore like to thank and congratulate all of our colleagues who have contributed to the work on this text and in particular its rapporteur, Christophe Naegelen, and the UDI-Agir Group. We were all witnesses or victims of these untimely calls. Over the years, the legislator has come to frame, circumscribe, limit these disturbances of daily life. The last notable step was taken on 17 March 2014: the creation of the Bloctel list, which is a list of oppositions to the call-up. Beautiful intuition that to reaffirm the prior consent of the consumer, the fundamental principle of any organization in society, which our fellow citizens consider totally flouted. Today, nearly 4 million people have registered with Bloctel for a total of 8.8 million telephone numbers. I remind those who look at us that it is possible to block intempestive calls by registering for free on the website blocktel.gouv.fr. While 60% of people registered on Blockel note a marked decrease in the number of calls, only 18% believe that the number of calls has declined significantly. That is why, on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I can only regret the choice of the rapporteur and the majority not to accept the opt-in, i.e. the requirement of prior consent before the start of the process. As a secondary matter, I would also like to deplore the abuse of anglicism, which does not simplify the debate. To get back to the bottom, I hope that our discussions will allow us to move forward on this option. We are told that jobs will be relocated, the spectre of the destruction of a sector of activity is shaken. But what society do we want, ladies and gentlemen? Let us remember that the Government acts with less delicacy to destroy from time to time jobs, public services in our villages, in our valleys and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u36	Germany, which is often taken as an example, has adopted the opt-in. This does not affect its economic performance within the European Union. Why would it be otherwise in France? Here again, the majority let appear its ambiguities, its flaws: it is hard with the weak and weak with the strong. The advent of digital technology allows less aggressive commercial approaches than a call on a family landline at nineteen o'clock or on Saturdays at fourteen o'clock. It is also up to us to encourage companies to take innovative and digital approaches. The direct consequence of the ban on telephone stalling will be to move these actions towards a more tranquillizing, less aggressive space, giving users the ability to manage these demands more simply. It is therefore with the determination of our convictions, with faith in a balanced and human society project, that we will defend an amendment aimed at simply prohibiting telephone stalling. The panel discussions demonstrated the profound difference between the prospect and the client who has already consented to a contractual relationship with the company requesting it. There is a space of balance here that is acceptable to us. We could go further by limiting these calls – previously agreed – to time zones that respect the right to privacy and normal family life. We will ardently defend an amendment of withdrawal in this direction. It seems to me that a parliamentary majority has expressed its support for this opinion in committee. An imbroglio allowed the La République en Marche group to counter the likely adoption of this amendment. This kind of hazard demonstrates the floating character of this majority. I hope that our work at the meeting will be more serious and will thus be able to respond to a concrete concern of the French. The preliminary debates in committee illustrate this will. Let us bear it with responsibility and concern for the common good. I cannot conclude my speech without mentioning two situations that we must take into particular consideration in our consideration of this bill. The oral nature of our debates does not allow them to be treated equally, but the people concerned must know that they are of equal importance to me. These are, first of all, the people who are most often victims of these aggressive calls. While the number of fixed phones is falling, almost 10% of our citizens still have only one fixed line. According to CREDOC figures, these are the most vulnerable of us: the elderly, isolated, low-graduated, living in disadvantaged areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u37	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u38	The adoption of opt-in will also be a social gesture towards them. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the working conditions of callers. Mostly low-skilled, most of them have never dreamed of doing this kind of profession. They often do so for food purposes, and in working conditions characterized by extreme pressure. They are also too often subjected to the violent reactions – unfortunately understandable, though reprehensible – of the people called. These shadow workers suffer from burnout and malaise at work. Let's not forget that. They should be given study work. This bill nevertheless contributes to the evolution of our legal body; It also brings something concrete to our fellow citizens. The Libertés et Territoires Group will therefore vote in favour of this text, hoping that the proposed advances will receive your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u40	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u41	It's all going to happen now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u42	This is the culmination of several months of work and consultation with my colleague Naegelen. Home phone stalling is an important topic. It concerns all of us. We all experienced this unpleasant experience of one day being bothered by a call that we had not wished for. We have all felt annoyance and sometimes anger at having to respond to the same calls several times, at late hours. The French live and feel it. More than nine in ten French people feel that phone stalling is too annoying and too frequent. That is why the law of 17 March 2014 democratised the register of opposition to the telephone stall called Bloctel. Beyond this perception, telephoning is a complex problem, because we have to arbitrate and find the right measure between consumers who want to be quiet and businesses who want to grow. However, our work has brought to light a phenomenon that has so far been insufficiently identified: overtaxed scams. They account for 43% of Bloctel's reports. I would point out that no known device, be it the Blockel opposition register or opt-in systems, protects against this type of call. I would like to make it clear to colleagues who wish to ban any type of telephone stalling. These calls encourage the recipient, under various pretexts, to call a supertaxed number. The Viva Multimedia case, where the sums at stake are estimated at 38 million euros, shows that these abusive approaches can be very lucrative. From now on, most of the calls that bother us are mostly damaging to the most vulnerable, as you said, especially the elderly. That is why the Group of the European People's Party is in favour of our colleague's proposal for a law. Its two objectives are laudable: to manage the telephone stalling and to combat fraudulent calls. There is indeed a need to monitor the telephone stalling, as abuses and failures have been noted. As in any sector, there are virtuous companies that have accepted the rules. There are others who still allow themselves inexcusable phone stalling practices. That is why we voted in committee to strengthen financial sanctions, particularly those aimed at professionals who would breach Bloctel's obligations: the applicable fine will thus be increased from EUR 15000 to EUR 375000. The majority also wanted, in committee, to extend the referral to Bloctel's manager by professionals who usually carry out a telephone stalling activity. This is necessary because databases are rarely updated. I am also in favour of a better management of the call-up within the framework of pre-existing contractual relations. In concrete terms, if you are registered on Blockel and have purchased a table from a company, it will not be able to approach you to offer you another product. The Blockel device, after two years of existence, remains largely perfectable. We wanted a government report to be submitted to Parliament within 12 months. It will evaluate the management of the Blockel service and the possibilities of improving our law. I am thinking in particular of the processing of personal data and the rights of consumers. We have also discussed for a long time the advisability of including in the law the obligation of a charter of good practice. I believe that it is the responsibility of companies, but also in their interest, to set it up. As a personal matter, I would like to see the practice of calling professionals and the value of a charter assessed in the government report. Professionals must be responsible for their practices. To include this charter in the law is, in my opinion, superfate. Improving the fight against fraudulent practices is also an imperative. For the reasons I have already mentioned, it is a question of creating new tools for this struggle. The proposed law creates a stable legal framework for telephone operators. They will be able to suspend overtaxed numbers or blocks of numbers used for fraudulent purposes more easily. The amounts due to the fraudulent publisher of the overtaxed number will be returned to consumers. The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of these measures and will vote for them. We share the positions adopted in the main part of the text. However, I remain reserved for certain provisions introduced by our rapporteur. I call for caution about the obligation for press publishers to register on Bloctel. The difficulties of the print press are known, let us not take the risk of aggravating them. I share the same view for the survey institutes. Reducing the number of people who can be called could distort the measure of French opinion. At a time when surveys are, as we know, widely used, this would be detrimental to public debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Christophe Naegelen, rapporteur, and Mr Pierre Cordier also applaud]] If I were to conclude, I would say that the majority share the spirit of the text. He found the right balance between consumer protection and the fight against telephone fraud. This balance is the result of a joint work with the rapporteur, conducted in a constructive atmosphere. This text is thus in line with the will of our majority to give priority to consultation and co-construction with the opposition, when the collective interest must take precedence. That is why my group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u43	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u44	I am pleased that we are gathered today to try, again, to find a solution to the issue of abusive and fraudulent telephone stalling. This is a subject that concerns us all. It is constant, in all the territories of France, without social or political distinction. One day, he touched all of us directly. This phone call reaches individuals at home, often in the evening or during the weekend. He exaggerates each of us, without any justification being found: these calls often push for consumption, and play on the inability of the interlocutors to assess the risks of their engagement. In particular, they target fragile audiences, and may, in some cases, be a typical abuse of weakness. Several months ago, I defended before you a bill to regulate this practice and restore consumer rights. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have chosen the status quo, removing all measures that were in line with the prior consent of consumers. Because of this immobilise, telephone prospecting is the only system where the consumer's default consent is allowed. The right of opposition and the Bloctel system cannot provide sufficient protection, because many citizens are not informed of their rights or are discouraged by the steps to be taken, but also because Bloctel is ineffective. Its entry into force did not put an end to untimely calls by individuals who registered there, and 81% of French people believe that this system does not work. Some have even written to me to tell me that, since their registration, they have been receiving even more unsolicited stall calls, and I am not even speaking at this stage, rapporteur, of fraudulent calls! Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we want to guarantee our citizens respect for their privacy. We believe that consumers should no longer be bothered at home against their will and should no longer be attacked by commercial offers that they have not solicited. We are not asking for a ban on telephone stalling. We know very well that for small artisans who settle, it is essential to be able to explore to make themselves known and to find customers. But the aggressive opening of call centers, platforms whose employees are under unbearable pressure, is not tolerable. Members of the majority are advancing 100,000 jobs to be protected, but it is not yet established that these jobs are based in France or that they could not be reinvented. In committee, Mr Ruffin rightly pointed out that the French would like to have more accessible after-sales services! These jobs could easily be redeployed. On the other hand, the economic model of stand-alone companies will be strengthened if calls are directed at the most receptive consumers, those who agree to be called on or take off; and the impact on sales or the conclusion of contracts will be far greater. I welcome your initiative, Mr rapporteur, in the fight against fraudulent appeals. You have also taken over the sanctions provided for in my bill adopted on 21 June, and that is a good thing. But you're not going far enough. You only want to "frame phone stalling", where you should fight abuse! Because the harassment suffered by our fellow citizens is not only related to fraudulent calls, as you imply. I warned you in the Committee on Economic Affairs about the importance of reversing the paradigm to move from a right of opposition to an obligation of authorisation. It is essential that consumers give prior and explicit consent to be out of the market for commercial exploration purposes. You think the opt-in wouldn't fix everything. I agree with you, because this must go hand in hand with the fight against pingcalls and the frauds to the overtaxed numbers that you are proposing to lead us today. One without the other would not guarantee our fellow citizens the tranquillity to which they aspire in their family privacy. The principle of prior consent already prevails for e-mail and SMS. I propose to extend it to telephone calls. Some people will agree to be out of the market, as others today agree to receive proposals by email and SMS because they see an interest in them. In any event, there will always be other means of prospecting and stalling than these unsolicited calls. Eleven Member States of the European Union have chosen a system of prior agreement, and this is working very well. Germany, for example, comparable to France in many areas, has chosen this principle. However, it cannot be said that it does not usually seek to protect its businesses. Similarly, it is not normal for persons entering into a new contract with a telephone operator by default, at the time of signing the contract, to give their agreement for the start-up. At present, the buyer is only informed of his right to register on a list of objections to the standstill; the operator may not refuse to use or sell its contact information for commercial purposes. You don't mention it in your bill, but it's a real subject that deserves to be debated. The charter of good practice that you propose is a good idea, provided that its non-compliance is accompanied by sanctions. However, it appears that the Government is opposed to this charter; I'm curious to know why. [[Smile]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, contrary to what happened on 21 January... pardon, on 21 June – on 21 January, it is another anniversary –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u45	[[Smile]] Not exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u46	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Christophe Naegelen, rapporteur, also applauds]] ... the majority will not remain in dogmatic postures and that we will accomplish the mission for which we have all been elected: to defend the rights of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u47	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u48	Far is the time of the so-called 19th-century travel clerk, peregrating at the pace of the door-to-door to sell his products. Arriving in the 1980's in Europe, telephone stalling has benefited for many years from exponential development. Building on these successes, companies have integrated these methods and outsourced their call centres. They went so far as to relocate them, which allowed for a massive and low-cost telephone pick-up, but carried out by unscrupulous companies located abroad. As a result, technical architecture has evolved, making telephone prospecting increasingly intrusive. In view of the growing number of businesses engaged in this profession and despite the legal rules that are required to respect the privacy of the persons sought, consumers see this practice as a harmful phenomenon. After having voted last June the bill of our colleagues The Republicans, the members of the MODEM and related groups welcome the bill of our IDU colleagues aimed at providing a better framework for telephone stalling and strengthening the fight against fraudulent calls. Through this text, we demonstrate our willingness to act on a subject that requires our full attention and concerns many of our fellow citizens. Indeed, nine out of ten French people say that they are overwhelmed by the repetition of unwanted calls. They exhaust and irritate people who suffer from them, especially the most fragile, who are subject to misleading practices or who are similar to telephone harassment. This proposal for a law is based on a simple observation, which we share: while the legislation allows consumers to have a right of opposition thanks to the Blockel scheme set up in 2016, many unscrupulous companies do not respect the existing law. Only 700 companies have subscribed to this scheme: it is far too little for it to be effective. In addition, one third of the 3 million persons registered in this system have made claims because of the continuing calls at issue. All this makes Bloctel, to date, a failure, which is in addition to those of previous attempts, just as disappointing – I am thinking of the red list or the Pacitel device. There are a number of reasons for the drifts in the telephone stalling and the failures of the systems put in place. The first is the impossibility of carrying out effective controls. Companies easily escape control through numerous parades, such as number usurpation, which makes it impossible to trace calls, or the use of technologies that allow a false number to be displayed on the telephone of the person called. It was therefore up to the legislator to strengthen consumer protection in the face of these multiple abuses. Our action must be based on two pillars: first, strengthening the obligations of companies; Secondly, to tighten the penalties to which they are subject. Because we can create and stack all the obligations that we want, if the sanctions are not dissuasive, the results will not be up to date, once again. The tightening of sanctions is therefore imperative. I welcome the adoption of our amendments in committee, which are aimed at harmonisation and a significant increase in fines for companies that do not comply with the strict rules of telephone marketing. These fines will now be up to €75000 for a natural person and €375,000 for a legal person, compared to €3,000 and €15000 previously, amounts that were far too small to effectively deter unscrupulous companies. I am pleased, on behalf of the MODEM and related groups, that the bill is based on these two pillars. I would also like to stress the quality and constructive spirit of the discussions and exchanges held in committee. They have enabled us to arrive at a balanced text, which will, we believe, make it possible to fight more effectively against abusive telephone stalling and fraudulent calls. I welcome the progress made with Article 1, which will oblige the demarcator to indicate, from the beginning of his appeal, the commercial nature of the latter, to present his identity or the identity of the legal or natural person on whose behalf he is making the call, as well as the possibility for the consumer to register free of charge on a list of objections to the call. Too many people are still unaware of the existence of the Blockel device.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u49	Bloctel is no use! We've got to get rid of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u50	The obligation of forwarders to provide this prior information is a real guarantee of the transparency that is due to any consumer. Another important element is the ban on call machines, the sole purpose of which is to generate thousands of calls in order to verify the allocation of telephone numbers or to determine whether the consumer is at home in certain time slots. These calls are a real nuisance for individuals. When they pick up, they find themselves most often without a contact person or face a machine. That must stop. In addition to the new obligations imposed on professionals, I welcome Article 2, which provides for an evaluation of the Blockel service. This audit is necessary: it will allow the precise identification of the brakes and deficiencies in the system and make improvements that will help make it more effective. Finally, I will mention a significant step forward: the fight against fraudulent appeals. From now on, an electronic communications operator operating a number that has been identified as being used for unlawful conduct will be obliged to suspend access to the number concerned, as well as to all numbers assigned to that same service or product provider. With this new obligation, it is a matter of making operators more accountable in the fight against overtaxed number fraud and thus better protecting the consumer. It is also about allowing consumers to provide alerts, which will have to be identified so that a company does not take advantage of them to discredit a competing company. We will propose, by an amendment, that such alerts be punished if they constitute a slanderous denunciation, in order to ensure that a company is not tempted to denounce a competitor without merit. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Christophe Naegelen, rapporteur, also applauds]] Because abusive or fraudulent telephone marketing is a scourge that poisons the lives of many of our fellow citizens, because the Blockel system is not up to the expectations of consumers and because we share the desire to fight more effectively against spam and ping call, the MODEM and related groups will vote this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u51	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u52	I don't have a fixed line anymore. I deleted it because, every day, every noon, every night, I received calls to sell doors, windows, kitchens, pots, fireplaces, wine boxes of Burgundy, telephone subscriptions, TV subscriptions, internet subscriptions, triple-thick socks, self-heating dudounes, electric toothbrushes, magic combs and four-leaf clovers. At the end of the wire, there was a voice, sometimes a voice from here, sometimes a voice from Africa, sometimes even the metal voice of a robot. Most often, just the handset, I hung up. I felt harassed in my privacy, assaulted in my tranquillity, and I gratified in my turn: at best, I was untiring a "no thank you" politique; Most often, a "get me out of your lists"; Overexcessed, on occasion, a "stop me...", while immediately experiencing remorse, for I know the upside down and the hell of the decor. In the early 2000s, many call centres moved to my town in Amiens. Why? The square metre of office was cheaper, and the picard workforce was cheaper than in Paris. The elected officials then sold these call centres to us as new information and communication technologies. We were the "SiliSomme Valley", and a banner was deployed in front of the station: "Bill Gates would be proud of us! » To postpone, without prejudging anything, I met the employees of these call centers. What did I find out? OS's from the handset. Modern Times, with Charlot calling the chain. Loïc testified: "You have fifty seconds, point. If you're past the minute, you're wrong. Barely you hang up, hop, two seconds later, new call: you pick up, you type the name, the first name and then, quickly on your keyboard, you file the info, you hang up. You're picking up the phone again. And so on. » With this vocation, therefore: to be hung up in the nose, to be yelled at, to be insulted at times. With the dictatorship of numbers, the daily reporting – indeed hour by hour – individual and by pool, statistics that appear on the screens of team leaders. With the contests rewarded in candies – true! –, with the good and bad pupils tele-advisers. During the preparation of my burn-out bill, I interviewed employees from these call centres, and I picked up some evil in the shovel. Thus, Alexis: "I entered into a "pro contract" at twenty years old. Our team leader said something wrong: "What are you jerking at? Get your fingers out... react quickly!" Well, she's gone, but the team leaders are all the same: pressure, pressure, pressure... As soon as they get a call from above, from management, they are no longer comfortable and then it falls on us. They come behind your back, give a big hit on the table: "You're not fast enough!" They themselves are not managing the pressure, and everyone was depressed. » I also quote Rodolphe: "In our home, weeping is nothing more: next to me, a colleague has had a stroke, there have been ruptures of aneurysm. We're talking about psychologicals, but there's physics, too. » I quote Chams again: "My team leader, she was insensitive, hard with us, but even she was making sick stops, depressions, we saw her go wrong. » The call centres are, in fact, the scene of a cascading pressure: it is the pressure of the payer on the call center subcontractor; It's the director's pressure on his managers; Finally, it is the pressure of managers on tele-advisors, such a pressure that HRDs themselves experience an unease. In the hearing, Flore, HRD, confided as follows: "I was in constant conflict of values. When you're someone who likes people, it's complicated. Because how do you manage a telephone set, fulfill financial optimization objectives and, at the same time, respect the human? I got up in the morning, my back hurt, my head hurt, I was tired, I was having nightmares. I'm not telling you the number of Sundays where, from fifteen o'clock, I was thinking, "My God, we're going to have to go back tomorrow, we're going to have to lie." And the number of mentors and employees who told me this is phenomenal. It's a mess. It's a human waste. It's an international waste, even. "Hello sir, I'm calling you because we have an exceptional offer to make: a kitchen with all the built-in equipment. To heat my pizzas, my kitchen is enough. "But, where do you call from? I ask. The lady replied: "From Tunisia. I reply: "Good courage to you and live Tunisia! » With the outsourced call centres, we are witnessing a real waste, therefore, of the elite of these countries, of Maghreb or Black Africa, of this graduate youth ready to go to teach in the countryside and to run hospitals. What do we do to him? Sell from a distance foie gras, phone deals and stairs. Instead of building a better world in the country, he is made to do a useless or even harmful job; It's a larb's job, which is to give us gadgets. It is a ruin of the most qualified grey matter in the countries of the South. Another development is possible, true cooperation. It is also a waste for the user, for the citizen. Because this is the paradox: as much as they disturb us fifteen times a week to sell us, as Boris Vian, quoted in committee by my colleague Sébastien Jumel, "A frigidaire/ A nice scooter/ An atomixer/ And Dunlopillo/ A stove/ With a glass oven/ Lots of cutlery/ And cake excavators"; so much, when we need a service – a service! –, there is no one at the end of the line. Have you ever, for yourself or for a given person, tried to unravel a problem with Engie? I've experienced it. These are hours spent doing the 0977 thing, with a labyrinth of « compose the 1 », « compose the 2 », of dièses and stars, to end up with a teleadvisor with a known and unique chorus: "I think that's not going to be possible. » This phone maze has a story. Until 2008, Engie, at the time Gaz de France, had twenty-four reception centres open to the public, with social workers in it, in Agen, Albi, Annecy, Arras... But that year, it's the switch: GDF merges with Suez; the service is stripped, delivered to billionaire Albert Brother. Immediately, the company closes half of its centres. But why stop in such a good way? Three years later, in 2011, the remaining shops, in turn, went into the trap. No physical contact, just the phone. As a result, these services were outsourced, outsourced, with a guarantee, at the time: they would remain in France. But promises only bind those who believe them. These call centres are located in Morocco, Portugal. Engie turns to Cameroon and Senegal. At home, a social worker testified: "Since this summer, when I call Engie's social service, I have been systematically referred to the Internet. Through a portal, you can negotiate less, you can't explain the situation, you can't send a message. We had physics; We're on the phone. Now we have the joys of digital. It's a vacuum, it's a human vacuum that's settled in. It's a very real distance, and it's not just a feeling. It is an abandonment, under cover of digitalism, and is not alien to the current crisis. So, Mr rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, I invite you to carry a real project, a project for tele-advisers, a project for society. You can't allow the "outbound" calls, as they are called in the call center jargon. It is a harmful profession – harmful to the French, disturbed in their daily lives, harmful to the workers, which wipes out the rejections or insults, harmful to the planet, at a time when the Government suddenly cares about ecology –: selling useless objects to people who do not need them. And, on the other hand, strengthen the service. Strengthen telephone services. Strengthen the physical reception, for real, where you see people. For the phone, this is called "incoming calls", always in call center jargon. That, for a gas bill, we spare the labyrinth of "compose the 1", "compose the 2", of the dieses and of the stars. That employees, too, are guaranteed real breaks, breaths, real contact with people. In this way, you will create jobs, and quality jobs. This is a real project for the customer relationship: no longer outsource, no more mistreat. You will say that I am moving away, that this is not the subject, that your proposal is only aimed at stalling. I shall therefore remain in the process of stalling, but, even on this point, the text seems to me to be very clearly inadequate. You're offering messets. You stay in the middle of the ford, despite two points. On the first, opt-in, we share the opinion of our colleagues The Republicans: only those who agree to be disturbed at home should be called.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u54	If they do not agree on their own to be included in a list, the rule must be that they are not disturbed. Since it works in Germany, let us imitate this example. Second point: how can we accept that robots are disturbing people?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u56	You say: "The robots that pick up to check that people are there, we take them, but the others – who really ask questions – we accept that they continue like this. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u57	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u58	No. It is not acceptable to be disturbed at home, not even by a person, let alone by robots making serial calls.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u59	We had to table an amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u60	The French will still be harassed after the adoption of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u61	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u62	We will not therefore oppose it, but we condition our support or abstention for the work that will be carried out today by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u64	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u65	I thank the rapporteur for his work and for reintroducing this issue into our programme and our agenda, because, six months ago, we remained hungry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u66	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u67	Yes, sir Cordier! The bill is the result of many hearings and debates that have enriched it. This constructive work deserves to be commended. The majority are extremely attached to it. The role of platforms must be framed and fraudulent calls must be blocked and penalized, but we must also preserve our jobs. This is the twofold objective that must be pursued through our debates. Some colleagues wish to relaunch the discussion on opt-in. The subject deserves to be delayed. What is he actually hiding behind this fashionable term? Tomorrow, law-abiding companies will ask individuals if they want to be called in for a start-up. I know their answer in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u68	"No! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u69	Exactly! Thank you for recognizing him, Mr Cordier! I almost prefer Mr Ruffin's more frank approach, which would like to remove the call-out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u70	Say I'm not being honest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u71	The opt-in effectively removes the phone stall.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u72	Keep your remarks to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u73	Mr Cordier, I let you speak. Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u74	We're listening to the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u75	Mr. Ruffin's more candid solution prompts him to call for the end of the call. This can be agreed, but what would be the consequences? Mr Ruffin has explained to us – and I believe so – that he has heard the testimony of the employees of the telephone centres. I recognize that the job is difficult, often poorly paid. But, for my part, I called about ten people who worked in these centers. The testimonies I've collected are a little different. Telephone platforms often offer a first job to people who are discriminated against. In view of certain flexible working hours, they allow employees, especially mothers, to reconcile work and family life. Finally, they allow retired seniors to contribute a few more years to gain access to a suitable retirement. Thus, this work, although difficult, is open to many people who are not always graduates. You have to think about them. My colleagues have already pointed out that the heart of the bill is section 6. Congratulations, Mr rapporteur, on your attack on the essential problem of fraudulent appeals. This scandal has been going on for years. If overtaxed calls come from dishonest companies, telephone operators also benefit. We need to talk about it: 75% of the product of an overtaxed call goes to its publisher and 25% to telephone operators, which means, in concrete terms, that for years, they have become richer by stealing citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u76	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u77	Article 6 finally puts these operators in line with their responsibilities. This is a significant contribution of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u78	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u79	Tomorrow, it will no longer be possible for these operators to be complicit – by default, but no matter what – in these calls. I do not know how many texts we have studied in the framework of parliamentary niches since the beginning of the legislature. The opposition often accuses us of not letting him speak, of not listening to him, of not studying his texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u80	It's the people who say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u81	Recently, I checked: the majority passed 50% of the opposition's bills. This percentage is clear. He deserved to be called back. On sensitive topics such as telephone chatting, when a text is relevant and it results from important work, including hearings, the majority do not adopt any posture. She's not dogmatic. She's just answering yes. Thank you, rapporteur. The majority enriched the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u82	It changes us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] I hope that it will be adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u84	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u85	While our country has been experiencing the most serious social crisis in its history since 1968, when millions of French people are calling for relief and asking the Government for emergency measures to survive after the 15th of the month, while the gap between those who believe themselves to be all and those who have been treated as "nothing" has never been more important, the National Assembly is discussing this morning the telephone stalling and fraudulent calls. This agenda may give rise to a smile, but it once again highlights the total disconnection of our institutions, which no longer respond to the major concerns of the French. Yesterday, the people's calls rang in a vacuum. Today, we can say that the line is definitely cut. Far from my idea of avoiding the fight against fraudulent appeals, which obviously has its interest, but this debate, like others, I am thinking of the one on the ban on spanking, deserved to be postponed to a later date. Five months after the examination of Pierre Cordier's proposal for a very concrete law, the protection of the telephone consumer is once again in our Chamber. The nuance between the two texts lies in the strengthening of the fight against fraudulent calls, especially since overtaxed numbers. In recent years, telephone stalling has developed considerably along with aggressive new business practices, which sometimes turn to harassment. Every day, our compatriots are disturbed, bothered, swindled and even threatened by people who have been deployed by so-called public institutions or malicious polling institutes. The objective is always the same: to collect personal information, to take advantage of the fragility of people, especially the elderly, to extract their meagre savings. A few weeks ago, in Finistère, a company presenting itself as a hospital announced that it would carry out a telephone survey on mutuals by asking the respondents about their complementary health. Following the complaints of several victims, the hospital called on users not to disclose personal information during these calls and to file a complaint with the gendarmerie. Another example is that in Ille-et-Vilaine, the false agents of a mixed household waste treatment union have turned the people around by telephone by asking them to make an appointment at their home and promising them a subsidy. Every day, sometimes several times a day, even at evenings and weekends, commercial platforms and Internet service providers call our fellow citizens for satisfaction surveys that are actually aimed at getting them to subscribe to new subscriptions. The bill, if it does not lack interest, lacks particular ambition. Indeed, we can only regret the caution of the logic of opt-out. According to this law, users may still be bothered by a company up to six months after the execution of the contract which bound them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u86	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u87	The real protection of consumers in the face of the unexpected start-up requires the introduction of an opt-in system with express consent, as it applies to emails and SMS. This system, which has proved its worth in Germany and Portugal, should be tested in France. Otherwise, a strict opt-out system, with only one exception, would be more effective if solicitations were directly related to the subject-matter of the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u88	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u89	In the face of increased abuse and fraud, however, we will vote for the strengthening of the fight against fraudulent appeals and for consumer protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u90	That's reasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u91	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u92	This Monday, a roundtable for seniors on the doorstep, whether at home or by telephone, was held in a commune in my riding. Organized at the initiative of a consumer association, the purpose of the meeting was to raise awareness among the public of the practices to be followed in the event of a standstill. The need to alert and protect is reflected in this bill. To this end, I would like to thank the rapporteur for allowing us to continue the debate that we started in the first half of the year. This text has a balanced purpose, which goes beyond consumer protection. Indeed, it seeks to strengthen the right of opposition to telephoning, while preserving the jobs associated with this activity. It recognizes the opt-out, which offers each individual the choice not to be out of the market. To this end, the text provides for an evaluation of Bloctel's delegated companies and a strengthening of sanctions for professional offenders. However, it would be a credulity to think that listing on an opposition list would make it possible to stop all unwanted calls. Telephone stalling covers different realities, which are often necessary to the detriment of this sales channel. That is why this bill tackles fraud by empowering operators and increasing penalties. This text fulfils a twofold objective, the framework for the opening up of the market and the fight against fraud. Without wishing to introduce an opt-in, it seems to me necessary to go even further in the desire to protect the consumer. The Blockel system must be supported and consolidated to offer consumers who no longer wish to be out of the market a real bulwark against the professionals. The control of delegated companies must, in this respect, allow for the regular improvement of a still very recent scheme. It is necessary to seek, find and implement improvements in the interests of the consumer. In this search for efficiency, I will propose, in particular, an amendment to abolish a derogation granted to the press. Home marketing is a pool of jobs, but suffers from a negative image among consumers. In order to reconcile our fellow citizens with this practice, I will defend an amendment aimed at regulating the timetable for the start-up. In addition, the issue of personal data, including telephone contact information, is becoming increasingly important in our society. The General Data Protection Regulation came into force on 25 May, which reinforces consumers' right of opposition to prospecting. To this end, I will propose an amendment on editorial simplification. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The particular feature of the bill is that it concerns almost all French people. I hope that our discussions will lead to the emergence of a protective text from all consumers and professionals in good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u93	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u94	I would like to thank all the speakers. Mr Demilly, Mr Bruneel, Mr Cordier, Mr Ruffin, Mr Colombani, we agree that we really need to protect our fellow citizens, but the application of the opt-in would in no way solve the problem facing us, for several reasons. Mr Cordier, you mentioned the usefulness of this measure in combating fraudulent appeals. But opt-in would not solve the problem posed by companies that are not registered on the Blockel file and that, more or less intentionally, continue to call people without "blocking" their files. I insist, opt-in would solve nothing: we would punish only virtuous companies, which create jobs and follow the rules. That is why we have chosen in this bill to favour opt-out while increasing sanctions. I would like to thank Mrs Luquet for having tabled amendments aimed at punishing anonymous callers, as well as companies that do not present themselves properly. This will at least force companies to "block" their files. Mr Ruffin, you reiterated what you said in committee. I understand your intentions, but we must not confine ourselves to generalities. Not all companies are identical; working conditions are not comparable, nor are managers. A system that represents 56000 FTEs and 270,000 direct jobs – both internal and external call centres – is likely to be too generalised. Should we say to all these employees, as you do, "these jobs are not good enough for you"? I'm far from convinced. What will you tell them next? "Stay home, don't work"? A large number of young people who are starting to work need this type of job: 50% of people working in call centres have a baccalaureate plus 2. You have regretted that this bill does not go further, particularly with regard to robots. But, Mr Ruffin, it is with pleasure that we would have considered your amendment on the subject, if you had tabled one – I have not seen one so far. You could have done that very well, and it is with great pleasure, I repeat, that we could have discussed this issue. I wanted to thank Nicolas Demoulin, Annaig Le Meur, Stephanie Do and Pierre Cordier for their comments. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been working on this extremely important issue. Mr Cordier, thank you for your very measured speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u95	As always with the Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u96	I do not make generalities: I am not talking about your group, but about you, whose attachment I know about. Of course, we do not share the same philosophy – you defend the opt-in, while for my part, I prefer opt-out – but you acknowledged that the bill was a singular advance. I would also like to thank our colleague Dominique Potier for his remarks. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have carried out a very constructive work in committee, which has enabled us to move this text forward. We will now debate the amendments, which will undoubtedly give rise to some differences. I hope that our work in public will be as constructive as the work we have done in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u97	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u98	I would like to return to some of the issues that have been raised. Telephone stalling represents 56000 direct FTEs in France, so this is not the thickness of the line. It is important that we have it in mind. On the other hand – I turn to Mr Ruffin – these jobs are very useful for starting up in life. I give you a personal testimony: when I was a student, I had a phone call. If I occupy today, I am aware, a privileged position, I was very happy, at the time, to earn this money, having no income and being somewhat "vised" by my parents. So, in my view, we should not spit on these jobs...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u99	We don't do it in the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u100	...very useful. This does not remove anything from what you say about pressure at work – which is a concern in all sectors of activity and for all managers. On the other hand, telephone operators are not the only ones who use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u102	There are also the candidates in the elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u103	Many companies – I have worked in some of them – use them in their activities, for example in tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u104	Companies with less than fifty employees have been mentioned!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u105	These companies, which generally have responsible conduct, need to become aware of regulation and adapt. Their approach is to create a bond of trust with the client, otherwise they may lose it. It would be detrimental to these companies to impose obligations on them, while those targeted are trampling on them. That is why I am pleased that the bill reinforces the sanctions – which is a very important signal – and that they are applied in a balanced manner – a right to error being recognized to small businesses, which could get their feet in the carpet, which happens from time to time. This text therefore seems to me to be very balanced. Today, opt-in is probably not the solution. We can talk about it again, after evaluating the narrow opt-out that we are proposing. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Becht also applauds]] The bill takes into account both the issue of employment for categories that do not have easy access to it and consumer protection, to which we are very attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u106	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u107	The meeting was suspended at the request of the La République en marche group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u108	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u109	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u110	I would like to make a point of order under Rule 58(1). Last night, at twenty-one and thirty hours, on the occasion of the resumption of work on the bill on justice, a colleague from the majority, whose ranks were obviously not sufficiently supplied, requested a suspension of sitting so that everyone could be present and vote on the amendments. The suspension of the sitting that has just taken place was absolutely not linked to the substance of our colleague's bill, but to the fact that there were not enough members of the majority to decide the fate of the amendments. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have a great deal of respect for you, but I regret that you, or at least one of the representatives of the Committee, did not attend the general discussion. We understand that you are holding important hearings this morning, but a vice-chairman of your committee could have replaced you. I wanted to regret this situation with great moderation and calm, but the majority could find enough Members, among the three hundred and fifty who make up it, to be the majority in the House when texts are discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u111	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u112	The committee was holding hearings this morning on multi-annual energy programming, which had been scheduled for a few days. I had the opportunity to speak with Jean-Christophe Lagarde, president of the IDU group, Agir et indépendants, who tabled the bills discussed today. He told me that unfortunately there was no possibility of exchanging the order of discussion of the texts. I am very sorry about that, but I do not have the gift of ubiquity, nor the vice-chairmen of the committee. We agreed that our absence should not prevent the general discussion from taking place and that we should arrive just in time to discuss the amendments. I admit we arrived really just in time. I am sorry that I was unable to attend the general debate: these are the horrors of the parliamentary debate. I would point out that all the time necessary for the general discussion of the text and the discussion of the amendments was given in committee, where you were also present, Mr Cordier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u113	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u114	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2 and 24, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u115	The aim of this amendment is to put an end to the commercial use of the telephone. As we have already said, the French no longer support these intrusions into their private lives: nine out of ten French people claim to be overwhelmed by this type of commercial relationship. The employees of these companies are subjected to numerous remarks, sometimes displaced or even violent, from unmarketed customers. Other countries, such as Germany, are an example of which we could draw a great deal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u116	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u117	This amendment also prohibits the use of blind telephones. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to bounce back on your remarks saying that this profession is very useful for starting in professional life and that it has been very profitable to you. That is exactly where we disagree. This activity must not be a job to start in life. It must be made a real profession, offering the possibility of a real career and good working conditions to do it well. We must consider the customer relationship, the physical reception, which must be strengthened, and the telephone reception as a real job, with a real salary – let's not forget this point! –, and not like a passing job. I don't tell those who do this job that it's not good enough – most of them like phone relations and contact with people. As is often the case today, employees love their work; These are the conditions under which they are forced to exercise it that they do not like. There are 270,000 jobs in call centres, of which 56000 are aimed at reaching clients. Telephone stalling must disappear, as it disturbs people at home and exposes employees to insults; On the other hand, employment must be created in physical reception and after-sales telephone service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u119	Unfavorable opinion. We have discussed this in committee and in the general debate: we are in favour of opt-out and not opt-in, because of the diversity of threats, particularly those affecting employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u120	We will try to find the French words to talk about this topic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u121	Exclusion option, inclusion option.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u122	These terms are clear and understandable. Thank you, Mr President, for helping to rectify this. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u123	My opinion is unfavourable, for the same reasons as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u124	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u125	Before we vote, I would like to remind our colleagues that this bill is truly operational. It has several qualities. Sanctions will be strengthened and operators will be more involved in complying with the rules on telephone stalling. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Of course, the best is the enemy of good. However, I very much hope that this bill will be adopted unanimously. Our fellow citizens are looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u126	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u127	Personally, it is a problem for me to simply remove the phone stall. That is why I will not vote for these amendments. Small and medium-sized enterprises often contact their customers through this. In addition, I have reminded you in committee, there are people who do not mind the telephone stalling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u128	Not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u129	Of course, but they do exist and see the opportunity to do good business and to benefit from commercial promotions in the call-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u130	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u131	Mr Cordier, I will support your amendment on opt-in, or rather on the request for consent. However, you know very well that adopting it is almost equivalent to eliminating the telephone stalling. In this regard, a clear distinction can be drawn between call centres – which operators call serial and blind people – and TPE-SMEs – which are called by the people in their customer files.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u132	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u133	Mr rapporteur, you are referring to a threat to employment. In the name of this one, you say, we can't regulate phone lock-up. I believe it is necessary to distinguish between jobs that produce goods and services that are positive for society and harmful or harmful jobs. Those who seem rather negative must be turned into real production of goods and services that benefit our fellow citizens. If people can be out of business all day for the purchase of components or other products – I won't go back to the list – and, at the same time, can't just solve gas bill issues with Engie, which controls 70% of the market, then there is room for manoeuvre not only to save existing jobs, but to create them, so that people feel in contact with companies that have sold goods and services to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u134	I have before me three amendments, Nos 8, 1 and 14, as corrected, which may be subject to a joint debate. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u135	It is intended to rewrite the first paragraph of Article L. 221-16 of the Consumer Code as follows: "A professional who contacts a consumer by telephone for the purpose of concluding a contract relating to the sale of a good or the provision of a service may make this call only from Monday to Saturday during the working hours of nine hours to twelve hours and from 14 hours to nine hours. No appeal may be made on Sundays and public holidays." The aim here is to frame the possibilities offered by the start-up. Everyone may wish to change the proposed timetables in favour of others that he or she considers preferable: from 15.00 to 18.00, or from 10.00 in the morning to 12.00 in the case of some, excluding lunch and dinner for others. The amendments on this subject can be multiplied. You have to be reasonable. The amendment I am proposing is an amendment of reason, based on observations on the ground and aimed at preventing our citizens from being disturbed at indecent times.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u136	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u137	This is a fallback amendment, partly incorporating Amendment No 2. It aims, like the previous one, to regulate the opening hours, in order to avoid repetitive intrusions at times when the privacy of our fellow citizens must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u138	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 14, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u139	It is intended to regulate, by means of a ministerial decree, the hours at which professionals can approach consumers by telephone. It was the subject of a favourable opinion by the rapporteur in committee and was co-signed by some 20 Members. The marketing at any time does not help businesses, whose image among consumers is degraded. It is necessary to define slots, depending on the nature of the economic activities concerned, in order for professionals to be subject to the penalties applicable in the event of non-compliance with good marketing practices. We are obliged to contribute, as far as possible, to the protection of our citizens. The amendment is fully in line with the consumer protection objective of this bill, while preserving the jobs generated by this economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u141	Mr Cordier and Mr Colombani, the slots you are proposing have not been the subject of any expertise to date. They can serve as a basis for the National Consumer Council – CNC – to speak on this point. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on your amendments. Mrs Do, I suggest that yours be withdrawn in favour of the amendment on the Charter of Good Practice which I will present at a later stage. It provides, in particular, for the Commission to specify the time and duration of calls and their frequency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u143	The Government suggests the withdrawal of the amendments and does not give an adverse opinion, for several reasons. When it comes to schedules, their flexibility must be taken into account, which has advantages for mothers and students employed by telephone companies. For them, the slots from nine o'clock in the morning to noon and from 14:00 to 17:00 – I'll caricature your remarks on purpose, Mr Cordier – are not necessarily the most practical. In addition, a reflection is under way at the CNC. It will inform the debate. In addition, we are now at the first reading of the text. This topic may be discussed in future discussions, on the basis of the work of the CNC.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u144	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u145	The La République group on the move shares the views of the Commission and the Government. We trust businesses, whose goal is not to solicit people at twenty-three or midnight. Their aim is to convince consumers. On the other hand, the CNC is working very hard on this subject. We have discussed this very much, particularly during the hearings we have conducted, and concluded that a framework of the timetables for the start-up is undoubtedly necessary. I hope that companies will do this – it is the same as a charter of good practices – and will be virtuous. We will discuss this again when we have the CNC report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u146	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u147	I do not understand the meaning of these answers. These are amendments of common sense. Guaranteeing our citizens that they can only be released by telephone from Monday to Saturday from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 14 p.m. to 19 p.m. does not require the opinion of any structure or of any Theodule committee. It is simply a matter of listening to our fellow citizens, who say they are tired of being out of business over the phone. Even if they are not at twenty-three o'clock or at midnight – we must not caricature our remarks, Madame Le Meur –, they must be after nineteen o'clock, at lunchtime or before nine o'clock particularly irritates them. These are common-sense amendments directly inspired by the comments of our fellow citizens. The guiding idea – which all the speakers heard this morning seem to agree with – is to end the process before nine o'clock in the morning and after nine o'clock, which seems reasonable. I ask that we be reasonable. Madam Secretary of State, it is not necessary to seek the opinion of any structure. We are big enough to legislate ourselves, so we have to reread the text. We're big, you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u148	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u149	I agree with what Mr Cordier just said. As I understand it, the bill we are debating is designed to protect citizens and ensure respect for the privacy of their homes. To do so, it is a matter of creating a normative framework. The amendments propose to define slots. It is often done between noon and 14:00, which is particularly aggressive at a time when people are in the family. It also takes place late in the evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u151	We need to protect our fellow citizens. The amendments are perfectly in line with the objective of the text and guarantee a deep respect for the citizens. I support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u152	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u153	"We trust businesses," said Le Meur. No! We don't trust them, because every boss is caught up in a system based on competition between call centres, which obey an order-maker and must achieve results.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u154	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u155	In this context, it is in vain to hope that telephone calls will stop at seventeen o'clock. The development of a charter of good practice and the use of self-regulation will not change that. Operators will call for schedules where the chances of people being at home are best.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u157	Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to confirm your comments. Did you indicate that the calls take place at late or early hours because they are those to which students and mothers are available to make them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u158	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u159	I like it better. Mr Cordier, your amendment may be of common sense, but it is above all clever. At the times you offer, there is often no one at home. Between opt-in and such amendments – to which I am also very favourable – we are turning around the pot. We have to aim for the end of the call, whether we want it or not. My colleague from the Somme, Mr. Demilly, is sticking to fraudulent calls. Frankly, I have no control over the substance of the device. On the other hand, I am sure that it does not solve the problem of the stalling. We should not make the French believe that this bill at least solves the problem of the disruption that one is experiencing at home through this. This problem will not be solved. We have not made any progress on this point. Perhaps we will have made progress on fraudulent appeals, but we should not make the French believe that we have put forward most of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u160	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u161	I withdraw my amendment in favour of the amendment on the Charter of Good Practice which will be presented later by the rapporteur and pending the conclusions of the CNC on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u162	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u163	If we were to systematically trust businesses, we would not be debating this morning. If that is the case, it is good that there is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u164	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u165	There is a need to set the time frame for home-based telephone pick-up, especially since there are now many ways to contact people, including by e-mail. When it comes to telephone calls, people's tranquillity must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u166	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u167	Failure to comply with the Charter of Good Practice exposes companies in breach of fines, Article 3 of which provides for an increase of the maximum amount to EUR 375000. In addition, the CNC brings together representatives of companies and representatives of consumer associations. So we do not blindly trust companies. The opinion of consumer associations also counts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u168	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u169	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u170	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u171	We are at the heart of the problem of this text. Do we, yes or no, want consumers to agree to be unmarketed by telephone? This is the subject of this amendment. I am well aware, for having worked extensively on this issue, that this consent would not resolve everything. However, this would be a significant step forward at first. This amendment proposes a solution that would, at least in the first instance, alleviate the agitation of our fellow citizens in the face of a certain category of businesses. The previous amendments, which proposed a framework for timetables, have just been rejected by the majority. I recognize that this framework would not have been enough to solve all the problems, but we are trying, modestly, to improve this text. But our fellow citizens are calling for the consent provision that I am proposing. I understand, Mr rapporteur, that your amendment to the Charter of Good Practice will be rejected by the Government. Your proposal is interesting and commendable, but we know it will be postponed in a few minutes. I therefore ask you to include in this law the principle of scheduling and the principle that our citizens must have given their consent in order to be out of the market. These are the first tracks, which we will then be able to dig in the framework of the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u173	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u175	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u176	Then it's the failure of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u177	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u178	Through this amendment, we want to stop the relocations and start the relocation of telephone platforms in France. In order to do this, we propose that customer relationship services linked to contracts concluded in France be obliged to be located in France. Indeed, in recent years, we have experienced a large number of relocations of customer relationship telephone platforms abroad. There are no valid reasons for these activities not to be in the hexagon or overseas, i.e. on French territory. Our French employees have all the qualifications and skills necessary to meet the needs of customers. The only explanation for these relocations is social dumping, which allows multinationals to increase their profits. In addition, these positions are often filled in developing countries by qualified persons who could be much more useful in other jobs. The aim is to promote cooperation so that the qualified youth of these countries can work towards their development. As far as social dumping is concerned, I shall take one example, that of Réunion Island. While this department has a high unemployment rate, many companies prefer to go through Mauritius, which is right next door, because the labour force is much cheaper and it allows for much greater profits, to the detriment of local employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u180	On the one hand, you are tabling an amendment to remove the call centres, and on the other, you are asking for more of them to settle in France! I must say that, in the spirit, I am more in favour of the second amendment than the first, but it is unfortunately contrary to freedom of installation. For this reason, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u182	This amendment is a violation of the European Treaty which binds us to the rest of the European Union. Therefore, the Government is logically unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u183	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u184	Mr rapporteur, I cannot let you say that I am in favour of abolishing the call centres. I just said that I made a distinction, in call centres, between incoming and outgoing calls. Incoming calls are services that people ask for. In this area, I am also in favour of reducing subcontracting to call centres and ensuring that these services are directly integrated into businesses – I am thinking in particular of companies such as SFR or Engie. On the other hand, I am against outgoing calls, against stalling, which accounts for 20% of jobs in call centres. I cannot let you say, I repeat, that I am against the call centres. Furthermore, this amendment calls on us to define the development, the co-development we want. What internationalization do we want? Social dumping, which has been going on for decades, has initially made industry workers pay, particularly those in the textile and automotive sectors, and it now extends to services. Do we accept this social dumping? Or do we prefer to go to other forms of cooperation and development? When you go to Tunisia and you come across Safa, who defended a thesis of French literature on Michel Butor's La Modification and who finds himself selling photovoltaic panels by telephone in France from Tunisia, you think it's a real mess. What a waste, when one thinks that this person could teach at university, in a high school, college or school and thus participate in the development of his country! Instead, we're trying to get him to sell gadgets all day long! Using the workforce in this way is really problematic. I repeat: we must define the internationalization we want. And, to make things clear, the treaties of the European Union do not suit me. The free movement of capital and goods and, in this case, services, with third countries is not suitable for me. We need to review these treaties. The French people replied no in 2005, he replied no more and I answered no again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u185	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u186	You are talking about violation of European treaties, but this kind of practice violates the well-being of French and French people, in the interests of big capital and finance. You prefer to enrich those who are hyper-rich and continue to impoverish the poor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u187	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u188	The great speakers are always there to enlighten us, but let us still return to earth. We have already had this debate in committee: we are talking about difficult jobs, and not necessarily very successful ones, but they are jobs that allow us to develop in a career. The person you're referring to, Mr. Ruffin, may have been able to fund some of his studies in this way. Have you ever been to Cuba, Mr. Ruffin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u189	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u190	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u191	[[Smile]] If I had said yes, I would have been booed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u192	To make life easier for you, I'll tell you that I've been there. I have lived in Canada for a number of years, a country from which we are allowed to travel to Cuba. I have stayed in Cuban hotels, and it is true that the service is often provided by highly qualified persons, former medical students or trilingual or quadrlingual persons. These jobs may represent a deterioration from their initial education, but they are also a way of emancipating themselves, finding a job and being able to progress. It is the world in which we live, both in Cuba and in North Africa. We may regret it, but I can tell you that it exists everywhere, even in diets that you are closer to than we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u193	[[Smile]] You tried it, but it didn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u194	We also said in committee, Mr Ruffin, that the world in which we lived was an open world and that sometimes we had telephone relations with companies that are not French, that to take a plane ticket, that to buy a service from a company that turns out to be German, Italian or English...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u195	Or Canadian!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...and even Canadian – let's be crazy! These companies can be based where they are, despite a contract that formally takes place on French territory. We are in the real world and we are trying to take it into account. A number of provisions in the Act provide for the supervision, sanctioning and ensuring that these steps are more reasonable than they are today. To go further would, I think, run counter to the development of a number of countries, starting with ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u197	I have before me three amendments, Nos 29, corrected, 30 and 31, which can be presented in a consolidated format. The rapporteur, Mr Christophe Naegelen, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u198	These are editorial amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u199	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u200	The aim of this amendment is to delete the last paragraph of Article 1a, which aims to establish a charter of good practice which professionals would be required to comply with. This paragraph requires professionals who use the call-up to comply with the Charter of Good Practice drawn up by the body in charge of the Blockel device. However, the company that manages the Blockel system is a public service delegation manager. It has a specification to follow, but it is not the appropriate body to draw up any charter in this area. Its task is to collect, record, store, modify and process information on the opposition list and to ensure compliance of professional business prospecting files by redacting the telephone numbers on the opposition list. A clear distinction should be made between what falls within the scope of the system of opposition to the strict call-up system, which enables professionals to comply with their legal obligations, and the implementation of good practices which, in the case of non-binding rules, are outside the scope of the law. A charter of good practice, for me, is a charter that companies voluntarily adhere to. They can advertise it, which is a way to build trust with their customers. This does not seem to me compatible with the idea of a normative obligation or regulation that could lead to sanctions. It should also be stressed that a paid standard of voluntary application, which is a matter of professional responsibility, is already working to determine the best practices for the implementation of the call-up. A quality repository therefore exists, which could act as a charter for professionals, without necessarily being stamped by the French Standards Agency – AFNOR. In any event, we believe that this should be voluntary, and certainly not undertaken by Bloctel's managing company. This amendment therefore opposes the following amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u202	Personally, I am obviously against this amendment, which tends to remove the Charter of Good Practice. I would like to warn our colleagues: without this charter, a company will be able to approach a consumer who is not registered on Blockel as it wishes, without any time limit, duration, frequency or number of calls. However, not to object to being out of the market, it is not to sign a blank cheque to the companies that are approaching. The consumer who accepts the stand-off may legitimately want it to be framed within the limits of the acceptable. You feel, Madam Minister, that this is not a matter for the law. I do not entirely agree with you: of course, the precise content of the Charter is not part of it, but its existence and its broad lines can be included in it. Good practice charters – under these exact terms – can be found in the Rural Code, the Labour Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure. As for the AFNOR standard you mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, it is costly and voluntary. No penalties are provided for companies that do not apply it. In other words, it is not effective. By removing this charter of good conduct, you are removing a whole section of consumer protection. That is why I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u203	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u204	By its very title, this proposal aims to regulate the opening of telephone calls and to combat fraudulent calls. However, Madam Secretary of State, you have just refused to accept a number of devices that help to frame the telephone stalling. In addition to the charter of good practice, you have refused the mechanism advocated by my colleague Pierre Cordier to regulate the timetable by allowing the opening of only 9 a.m. to 12 noon and 14.00 to 19.00 a.m., and that aimed at demanding the express agreement to the opening for persons who sign a contract with a mobile operator. And now – cherries on the cake – you refuse any framing while the purpose of the bill is precisely to frame the telephone stalling. You empty it there of all its substance, to the detriment of the protection that consumers demand. We must listen to the French, listen to consumers: polls and opinion statements show that there is a demand, a very strong expectation. I therefore agree with the rapporteur, and I appeal to my colleagues in the majority to hear the French, as they ask through the yellow vest movement. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] Let's hear the French, let's meet their expectations! And make sure, Madam Secretary of State, that you do not empty this bill of law of all its substance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u205	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u206	We agree with our colleague. Everyone agrees, we have a good text here, because a framework is needed. The charter aims precisely at regulating the practice of stalling in order to enhance the effectiveness of the scheme. It is a bit expedient to be told, whenever one wants to act, that this is not the role of the legislator. We already received this response last night during the discussion of the Justice Reform Bill. It's starting to do a lot! We are legislators: it is up to us to amend the texts, and why not to put in place a charter. At least let us have this opportunity! Otherwise, what do we serve? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this charter is important. Let us defend it and, together, let it be useful, usable, used and, above all, that the legislator we are still serve something.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u207	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, this text is proof that you are serving something.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u209	Thank you, that reassures us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u210	It is you who propose it; It was the subject of a work in committee and a first proposal for a law defended by Mr Cordier, and then a second, which, supplemented, was voted unanimously in committee. I cannot imagine that all this work was done in vain. On the other hand, I cannot let you say that the Government is depriving this text of its substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u211	That's what this is all about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u212	Since everyone defends the French, I remind you of what balance we are talking about. For my part, I defend the French who work. Today, 58,000 people are working in the telephone centres for start-up activities. That is why it is important to balance this approach to telephone stalling – which seems to me quite interesting and which we support. The worsening of sanctions, the strengthening of the Blockel system, the obligation to appear at the beginning of the conversation and the fight against fraud seem to me to meet 80% of the expectations of the French. Let me tell you, however, that we must bear in mind those 58,000 full-time equivalents, which are not indifferent to the text we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u213	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u214	The Secretary of State, if I have understood her words correctly, does not object to a charter, but to the idea that it should be included in the law today. She made proposals, which I raised in the general discussion, on which it is important that we work, with the CNC or the Senate – perhaps as part of the UDI-Agir bill. The aim, however, is not to include this charter in the law: there is no question of creating an empty shell, which we will not be able to complete or control afterwards. I do not agree with the introduction of such a provision, which falls within the regulatory area, when we have to take legislative measures. Here we make the law. Our goal is not to control devices in detail. For the time being, we intend to draft a report which, I hope, will include recommendations, particularly with regard to the charter. We all agree that a charter of good conduct can be an interesting tool. I don't want to be out of business all the time. It is not a question of blind trust in companies. Moreover, it is not just companies that also sit on the CNC, as the rapporteur pointed out, representatives of consumer associations. Some may say that it is possible to keep moving, but according to certain rules. I trust the CNC to develop a charter of good practice. We will therefore follow the advice of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u215	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u216	It is necessary to stop imposing by law additional constraints on companies: whether they concern timetables or content, they do not fall within the scope of the law. Let the platforms decide, because the rules cannot be the same for all products. People work; some can be led to answer late on the phone because they can only be reached in the evening. Let's be pragmatic, let's trust. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, do not demonize platforms or companies that use call centres. You have no chance of selling anything to anyone if you don't follow some common sense rules. You can't call at midnight to force someone to buy a product. Platforms and companies that use call centres do things as intelligently as possible, in order to avoid a refusal by consumers. [[Mrs. Annaig Le Meur applauds]] I've worked a lot with call centres; I know how it works. So let us not demonize companies, and let us not impose too many constraints on them in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u217	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u218	It is because I was not convinced by your arguments, Madam Secretary of State, that I am allowed to intervene. In proposing this charter, the author of this bill, Christophe Naegelen, also tries to answer the question posed by some Members, namely: how to distinguish good practices from bad ones? Some speakers highlighted the fact that call centres located in other parts of the world have highly questionable practices. It was also for this reason that this bill came into being.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u220	Telephone stalling is part of the use of modern means of communication and exchange. A charter of values, a charter of engagement that a platform or company will sign, is a simple way to govern the rules between the one called – the prospect, the client – and the operator, who calls. I do not see how the charter proposed by the author of the bill endangers the 58,000 jobs that the Secretary of State says she wants to defend. I want us to live harmoniously, in a country where the law applies in the best possible way. The practice of ordinances was much criticized at the beginning of this quinquennium; For my part, I hope that it is the legislator who establishes a harmonious, secure, simple and understandable framework. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] In this regard, I believe that a charter of engagement or charter of values is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u221	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u222	We do not have here those who are in favour of and those who are opposed to the call, nor those who are in favour of employment against those who are against it. Madam Secretary of State, you do not have a monopoly on the defence of employment in this country. We are sensitive to the 58,000 people who work in these structures. Nevertheless, as my colleague Véronique Louwagie said, the purpose of this text is to frame the telephone stalling. Our proposals on timetables have been rejected. I have indicated, in a somewhat ironic way, that you were against the development of this charter. It is painful to run into this Manichean approach – "we are in favour of employment, you are against it". Setting up the telephone start-up does not mean removing these companies; Restricting the opening hours does not prevent employees from going to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u223	A little bit, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u224	Not at all! We need to talk to the people who work in these companies. I bounce back on François Ruffin's remarks, according to which these employees cannot be employed at any hour of the day and night, on public holidays and on Sundays. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Like you, Madam Secretary of State, I am very committed to defending these jobs. In conclusion, I would like to point out that your predecessor, Mrs Gény-Stephann, had referred to the need to carry out an impact assessment in order to estimate the impact of these measures on employment in the territories. We're still waiting for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u225	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u226	As far as the form is concerned, Madam Secretary of State, you are opposing a legal argument, arguing that we will venture there in a matter that would not necessarily be in the legislative field. Coercion for Opposetel could pose legal problems. Article 37 of the Constitution provides, however, that a legislative text in a matter which is not within the scope of the law may then be amended, if necessary, by a decree adopted after the advice of the Council of State; That would solve the problem. We would therefore not be obliged to rule today on this charter, which we believe is important. In substance, in addition to the excellent arguments developed by the rapporteur and Thierry Benoit, the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which our assembly voted for, has created a mechanism to supplement the legal regime of the platforms for bringing the self-employed into contact by means of a charter. That was what Ms. Pénicaud, sitting on the bench of the Government a few months ago, had proposed herself. What is valid in one case must also be valid in the other. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] In our view, there is no legitimate reason not to let the charter appear in this article. That is why we ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to accept this charter, so withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u227	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u228	We must be very pragmatic: what are the arguments for this amendment? He is opposed to the fact that the measure is not in the legislative sphere and that it is not up to us to take it, to which we replied that we are the legislator and that we must take our responsibilities. [[Smile]] In favour of this charter, we can already say that it will not cost a round, which is not so common. The charter will enable us to better frame the start-up, which, as we have said, is precisely what we want to do here. It will then be up to Bloctel, a public service delegate, and the CNC, which brings together companies and consumer associations, to tell us what the content will be. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Finally, I would like to point out that the article providing for this charter was voted unanimously in committee. On returning to this provision, we would therefore go back to what all the Members, both the opposition and the majority, who were present in committee, decided. I would therefore like to thank you for withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u229	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u230	I have the impression that we are not listening well and I would like to highlight several points. The first point is that you refer to a charter of good practice, that is, a voluntary approach, which you want to consolidate through legislation. It therefore amounts to creating a right and imposing it on businesses. That is not what I understood when I read the explanatory memorandum, and this is therefore a matter for regulation. Secondly, I do not see how Bloctel, the holder of the public service delegation, would be responsible for drawing up this charter. It is not her job and she has no legitimacy to do so. Let me therefore cast doubt on this. Third point: I know that the legislator is autonomous, that he is a big boy and that he does not need intermediate bodies to think, but he seems to me to have heard a need for listening. Why, then, would we not listen to the CNC by letting it go to the end of its work, which had already begun in recent months, and make proposals? The final point: the framework of timetables, on which I agree quite well with Mr Ruffin, who was maliceful in pointing out the subtlety of the amendment tabled earlier by Mr Cordier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u231	If you agree with Mr. Ruffin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u232	Given the schedules you are proposing, 80% of French people will never be called.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u233	Call them at night: you're sure to find them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u234	You know as well as I do that they're not called at night. Let's just keep it right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u235	If you call this reason keep,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u236	I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u237	Mr President, I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u238	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u239	The meeting was resumed. The rapporteur, Mr Christophe Naegelen, has the floor to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u240	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u241	The rapporteur, Mr Christophe Naegelen, has the floor to support Amendment No. 55, which was drafted in consultation with all, including the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u242	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have reached a consensus in favour of this small change. Companies will have to respect a charter of good conduct – everyone agrees on this point. We are counting on the shuttle to enable us to define this charter of good conduct more precisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u244	[[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Opinion... favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u245	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u246	I was about to make my first point of order in six years, but I'm not going to. I would simply like to say, for having surveyed other members of the opposition groups, that it is finally quite common to challenge the presidency and that each time we are told that it is indisputable. We must not make an exception when we are in the majority, it is a matter of propriety. In this case, I welcome the outcome that has been found.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u247	There is no subject: the presidency has not been contested by anyone! Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u248	Your hesitation was very funny, Madam Secretary of State. What's weird is that in a few minutes, what you thought was in the domain of the decree – the drafting of a charter – has moved on to the domain of the law. It took an error of vote and the mobilization of yours through a telephone stalling operation aimed at calling in the Chamber the deputies of LaREM who were not there – like which the telephone stalling can be useful and there is not necessarily a need for companies to do so, even between noon and 13 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u249	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u250	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] All this is finally pretty messy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u251	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u252	I am not going to comment on the small arrangement between friends, but I am sceptical about the usefulness of charters in general. As I will not be here this afternoon – I know that you will regret me (Exclaims on various benches) – I would like to state the position that I will recommend to my group, even if the Member who will represent us will vote in his soul and conscience. I will trust Mr Demilly: we have a device that can be useful in combating fraudulent calls. I would simply like to see action, mention and clarification, for us and for the French, that this is not a framework for the start-up in general. It would be a lie to the French to pretend that once this text is voted, they will no longer be disturbed at home or less disturbed at home. I'm sorry, but that's not true, and you have to tell the French. This means that other laws are needed to regulate this. There is nothing in the text on robot regulation in general; proposals to regulate working hours have been rejected; the condition of consent, which should be self-evident, has also been denied. However, I would recommend to the Member who will replace me this afternoon to vote in favour of this bill, considering that it may be useful with regard to the pinhead of fraudulent calls, but not with regard to the mass of calls that the French receive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u253	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u254	We've just had an extraordinary episode. I hope that when we look at the next PLPs, we will find that same dynamism, which allows a government amendment to be rejected and we will all meet to find a compromise. It bodes well for the future and I hope that this will make case law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u255	The rapporteur, Mr Christophe Naegelen, has the floor to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u256	The purpose of this amendment is to put an end to the exception to the right of opposition to polling. There are three categories of exceptions to the Blockel scheme: surveys, charitable associations and the press. If we can understand this in the last two cases, it is, from what consumers tell us, the polling institutes that are most perceived as a nuisance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u258	The Government's opinion is unfavourable, but I note that you do not dispute the merits of the exception in favour of the press and charitable associations. As far as survey institutes are concerned, the important point, it seems to me, is to have a reality of the words of the French. If there was an opt-in for surveys or other forms of validation, one might doubt the reality of what is being surveyed. Since I do not believe that the proposal is aimed at banning surveys and at ending the activity of the surveyors, our opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u259	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u260	I wanted to express the opinion of the La République Group on exceptions. We will be opposed to the rapporteur's amendments for the very clear reasons set out by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u261	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u262	The aim of this amendment is to remove the exemption for professionals in the field of prospecting for periodical newspapers and magazines. Co-signed by some 20 Members, it received the rapporteur's favourable opinion in committee. These professionals are not subject to a prohibition on the sale or rental of personal data held by Bloctel. They are therefore able to obtain the telephone contact details of consumers registered on Bloctel. This is totally contrary to the objective pursued by the user of the platform. Moreover, it is inconceivable that these professionals will have access to this data when they are not subject to Bloctel. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to remove this completely derogatory right which does not appear justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u264	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u266	The Government's view was unfavourable, primarily because of the particular fragility of the sector. Secondly, according to our knowledge of the returns of consumer associations, it is not this type of standstill that is the subject of the strongest criticism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u267	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u268	I support the opinion of the Secretary of State, but I would like to go a little further. I regret that I have not been able to hear these actors during our hearings. I hope that we will give ourselves time to audition them later. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u269	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u270	The purpose of this amendment is to guarantee the consent of individuals to the call-up, instead of the simple right of opposition that exists today. This right of opposition is ineffective, since few use it and the Blockel system does not reduce the number of untimely calls among those who have registered. The amendment provides that persons on the subscriber lists with a telephone operator must give their express consent so that the telephone data can be used for commercial purposes prior to any prospecting or stalling. It states that, in the absence of agreement, consumers' telephone data are deemed to be confidential. This provision would not apply to undertakings with fewer than fifty employees whose main activity is not the opening up or telephone prospecting. The aim here is to give these companies, especially local artisans, the opportunity to ask our fellow citizens to promote their production.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u271	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-06-O1096.u272	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the bill to regulate the use of telephones and to combat fraudulent calls; Discussion of the bill to promote the recognition of caregivers; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to establish a specific fund for paediatric oncological research; Discussion of the bill to improve the visual health of elderly people who are losing their autonomy. The meeting is adjourned.
