ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1545, 1550).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u3	I'll be very brief. First of all, I want to thank all of you for your readiness to review the finance bill, despite the particular circumstances, and for the dialogue between Parliament and the Government, which allowed us to answer some questions – I am thinking of the arrangements made for fiscal integration or for chambers of commerce and industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u4	Big subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u5	Our commitment on this issue will be fulfilled: next September, we will take stock of the status of the KICs, determine whether the measures adopted are being implemented in good conditions and, if necessary, make the necessary adjustments. Finally, I would like to report to the national representative on my discussions yesterday with European Commission Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis and Commissioner Pierre Moscovici. The Commission has fully understood, I believe, the exceptional circumstances in which France finds itself and the need to respond to the cry of anger and suffering that has manifested itself in our country. I told my interlocutors that our public deficit would be 3.2% but that, apart from the specific adjustment for the CICE – the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – it would be only 2.3%, so below the 3% mark, in line with our European commitments. I recalled that the line of the Government and the President of the Republic remains that of restoring our public finances and improving the competitiveness of our companies, guaranteeing a better quality French offer. This recovery is not negotiable – it is a conviction that we share with Gérald Darmanin – for a simple reason: there will be no prosperity for the French and France without solid public finances. As I said to the Commission, that is the aim we must pursue in the coming months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I also recalled that our determination to continue the country's economic and social transformation remained complete and that all the fundamental elements, pillars of our economic and social policy, which you have adopted since 2017 – capital taxation, labour market reform, the action plan for business growth and transformation – remained unchanged. As for the future, we are determined to achieve the profound reforms that our economy needs to create prosperity and jobs, reindustrialize our territories and simply allow our compatriots to live better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u6	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u7	[[Applause]] The final reading of the 2019 finance bill is an opportunity for me, as for Bruno Le Maire, to thank all the parliamentarians who have contributed to the drafting of the bill. Let me have a special word for the rapporteur-general, who has worked extensively with our teams, both upstream and downstream of the bill, as well as the chairman of the Finance Committee. We have had respectful and constructive exchanges that have brought honour to the parliamentary debate. I would also like, as I did the day before yesterday – during the night, or more precisely early in the morning – to thank the staff of the National Assembly mobilized on the stage or with the deputies. Finally, I welcome the presidency of the Assembly: the Vice-Presidents and President Ferrand, who followed in the rostrum during the four months of financial debates. I am all the more grateful for the work done by all the parliamentarians, officials of the Assembly and collaborators of our ministries, as well as by our two Secretaries of State who also sat on these benches, that the debate in the Assembly and in the Senate has been the subject of several novations. First, the expanded commissions have been removed, in return for the re-evaluation of the review of the settlement bill, in accordance with the wishes of your assembly. Secondly, the number of articles in this finance law – 363 – is all the higher as the budget collective has been reduced to its original purpose, with nine budget articles. Finally, it is important to stress the reactivity of your assembly to translate immediately the announcements of the President of the Republic into concrete measures. For example, yesterday afternoon, the Committee on Social Affairs adopted the draft law on emergency economic and social measures, which you will be debating in the House this afternoon. Aware of the need to go even further in the exercise, I will have the opportunity, together with the minister responsible for relations with Parliament, to propose to you adjustments that will allow us to go further in the renovation of the budgetary procedure, subject to constant duty. We may be able to discuss this in the context of institutional reform, when it comes back to your House next year. In particular, I would suggest that we reconsider the silo examination of the various missions of the general budget, so as to allow the discussion to gain speed, consistency and rationality. In the shorter term, from the beginning of next year, I will submit concrete measures to accompany the strengthening of your public policy evaluation role, on which Amélie de Montchalin has spoken several times in the media. The Government's idea is to support Parliament's initiatives for a more effective, independent and perhaps more precise evaluation, specifically in its budgetary and financial dimension, which underpins the analysis of public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will propose that you share with your Finance Committee the most useful data from the Chorus information system. As I indicated in writing to the President of the National Assembly less than 24 hours ago, this access will allow you to consult in real time the availability and consumption of State appropriations, in order to carry out the monitoring work necessary for the proper conduct of public policies. This is an important step forward in the transparency of public data. This proposal is part of the Government's determination to enrich the quality of our budgetary exchanges while ensuring the transparency that I and the Minister of the Economy wish to guarantee. In substance, as the Minister of Economy has noted, this budget has made it possible to further clean up our public finances while respecting our commitments. It reconciles pragmatism and fiscal justice, on the one hand, encouragement at work and social protection, on the other. I would also like to say a word about the Social Security Financing Bill, which we completed a few days ago. We continue to fulfil our commitments in the field of methodology, by continuing to make the state budget sound, by clarifying our fiscal policy, by abolishing small taxes – I particularly welcome the work of the Member of Parliament Laurent Saint-Martin on this point – and by bringing our taxes into line with European standards, which the Minister of the Economy mentioned in the debate. We are also continuing the financial contracting process, which began with the largest communities in 2018. More generally, we continue to deliver on presidential commitments. As the Minister of Economy pointed out, we keep our priorities: the decrease in taxation and the increase in the purchasing power of our fellow citizens – an unprecedented increase in 2019, noted by INSEE as well as by most major French newspapers; the encouragement to the working France, thanks to the PLFSS and the text that Muriel Pénicaud and Agnès Buzyn will defend this afternoon; the strengthening of the security of the French, both physical, by strengthening the regal domains of the State, as well as social. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is with some relief that I thank you, for the second year in a row, for four months of debate, day and night. Like Sisyphus, we will resume next year's review of the nation's budget. In any case, it is exciting to take our place and try to work best for our fellow citizens and our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u10	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u11	My point of order relates directly to our work. Indeed, while being mobilised by the finance law, we are also preparing the law on economic and social emergency measures. Curiously, several amendments from our group, to which we attach the greatest importance, have been declared inadmissible. These are, in particular, proposals for indexing pensions and family allowances, which are clearly linked to the proposed emergency measures. This request is made on roundabouts by families and pensioners. Why don't you hold her? Madam President, I stress the need to refer the matter to the Bureau of the Assembly, the Conference of Presidents or the President of the Assembly himself. Let us not truncate the debate: we want to discuss calmly and move forward quickly, without delaying the vote, but our proposals must also be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u12	We are going to look into this. Your group is certainly not the only one concerned with amendments that have been declared inadmissible. I will answer you as soon as I have the explanations, during the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u13	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u14	I will be of exemplary brevity. Here we are at the end of the traditional budget marathon, with a text that has undergone some changes since the first reading this year, given the events that have shaken the country in the meantime. It is now a question of adopting or rejecting the text. Indeed, given the option in the Senate, it is no longer possible to amend it. This means, moreover, that even if a motion for referral to committee was adopted, we would have nothing more to say since we could no longer introduce any amendment; Therefore, to table such a motion in these circumstances appears to be a bit messy. [[Applause on all benches]] [[Same movements]] This year, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out, we have examined a record number of amendments: about 10,000. Behind this number, there are people who are working to prepare the action of parliamentarians; I would therefore like to commend the entire public finance department of the Assembly, particularly the staff of my division, who had to work hard this year in view of the size of the text. Our debates often took place late in the night, even early in the morning; I would therefore also like to say how particularly effective the services of the National Assembly, placed under difficult conditions, have been in considering this and other texts. Evidence of the work done, the volume of the finance bill has tripled since its initial tabling. I am very pleased that, for the first time this year, the amending finance law is limited to budgetary adjustments; This is, I believe, a considerable progress. I thank the Government – the two ministers who are currently on the bench, as well as all those who have succeeded them, as well as the members of their cabinets – for the co-construction work, sometimes difficult, night or morning, that we have been able to carry out thanks to the quality of the human relations that unite us. I would also like to thank all members of the National Assembly, regardless of their political group, for the majority and the opposition – although, of course, I am thinking first of mine. I am a lover of good living together, and it seems to me that we are doing our utmost to ensure that our debates are calmed down. In any case, the respect that I have for all of you, and which I believe is mutual, is the guarantee of a good work in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Now, quite simply, we have to pass this bill, knowing that we will find ourselves quite quickly, in the spring, as a few amending financial laws are in sight. If we are happy to be able to conclude before the Christmas holidays and to return home, we will also be able to meet soon to discuss these amending texts which will contain measures on the remaining subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u15	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u16	I associate myself with these preliminary comments with the discussion of the text – which, I remind you, is not yet adopted. Mr Le Fur, yesterday the Finance Committee discussed the amendments you mentioned. They were rejected not under Article 40 of the Constitution – which allows me to relieve my responsibility, as well as for once that of the Government (Sorry) – but of Article 45, which proscribes budget riders. The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs considered that yours, in particular, was one of them; It will be up to the sitting to examine the matter and decide whether it should be debated in the Chamber. Of course, I will not sum up the PLF because I find that this is no longer the time. It is true that we have examined some 10000 amendments, apart from the PLFR, which is obviously a lot, in the same time as in previous years, for the good reason that we have reduced the time taken to examine the appropriations and have made it, I think, more effective. That said, ministers, the result is for the time being a fiscal balance – not to say a fiscal imbalance – extremely uncertain, as public deficits amount to 3.2 per cent of GDP, compared to 2.8 per cent last week, and they will rise to 3.4 per cent tonight, before they are likely to return to 3.2 per cent in some time. And we may be talking about 2.3% in some political comments, because, as the Minister of the Economy said, between the temperature felt and the actual temperature, there is the CICE. This uncertainty makes it difficult to read our country's fiscal policy and results. After the adoption of the FLP, the spring of the evaluation will have to take its full place. This is the time for evaluating public policies, for our ability to change them, move them, change them according to their results, regardless of any political consideration – whether its content is left, right, or center, a policy is effective or not, and national representation must be able to judge it. We will devote a lot of time to this, but it is absolutely necessary. Our Finance Committee has also decided to set up a fact-finding mission on the LOLF, the Organic Law on Finance Laws. It must be possible to review it, taking into account its many years of application, in order to determine, in conjunction with the competent minister, the Senate and the Court of Auditors, whether certain points should be changed in order to make it even more effective. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to thank everyone: first of all the rapporteur-general, for the very difficult work he has done, and obviously also the whole of the Assembly's public finance department, as well as, more generally, all the services of the National Assembly, for these lengthy budgetary work sessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u17	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u18	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] In this point of order, I would like to return to the discussion of the amendment referred to by Marc Le Fur. I heard you, Mr President, at the moment explaining that it had not been ruled out under Rule 40 – it was also discussed in the Committee on Finance. The question therefore falls within the purview of the Presidency and the meeting. I can't imagine it's not being debated this afternoon. We tabled it as part of our parliamentary group – we tabled four of them in this capacity, that number has not been exaggerated. This amendment concerns the indexing of pensions, family allowances and LPA, the personalized autonomy allowance. How can we consider that this is not linked to measures in favour of purchasing power, whereas it is precisely one of the factors which has determined, throughout France, the reactions to the decline in purchasing power? It cannot be said that the deindexation of pensions, family allowances and LPA is not related to debate, although it has been the driving force behind it. I therefore really ask that the sitting be resumed on this subject and that our amendment be debated here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u19	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a further point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u20	I, too, rely on the Rules of Procedure to support the Group's request. The Republicans, especially since amendments that we tabled on the bill that we will be debating this afternoon – those on the bonus issue – were rejected in committee before we were finally accepted for the sitting. I do not question the administrators, whose work is exhausting, but we have just experienced a phase in which amendments on the ISF – the solidarity tax on wealth – were rejected, among other things, when they had an obvious connection with our debates, because we must have the right to choose where we take the money. It was initially planned in the draft budget to take it in the form of an increase in the carbon tax, but this was rejected, either. In any event, since yesterday, given the speed of the pace and following mistakes, which are understandable, things have been called into question. For our part, our amendments have been considered admissible, and we are satisfied with them. However, it would of course be problematic if the Republicans could not be examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u21	I will clarify my answer, given that the amendments tabled are currently being processed by the meeting department. I would point out – as you have already said, Mr President of the Committee, in response to Mr Le Fur – that, under Article 45 of the Constitution, "any amendment is admissible at first reading if it is linked, even indirectly, to the text tabled or transmitted". The manner in which this link is to be assessed has been clarified by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council: the assessment is made not with regard to the object or title of the bill concerned, but with regard to the content of its various articles. It is on this basis that you will consider the admissibility of the amendments you have tabled on the draft law on economic and social emergency measures. I would like to share your comments with the President and, as I undertook earlier, I will give you an answer during the morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u22	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u23	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion of rejection in advance, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u24	We have now come to the final examination of a text that can be described as a crisis budget, a social and political crisis of historical magnitude. With this budget, ministers, you have tried to translate into budgetary terms the fact that, suddenly, the President of the Republic discovered that our country was in a state of economic and social emergency. I have to say that you're doing it wrong: you're answering wrong, next door, and not enough. You try to extinguish the fire by dropping the ballast, without changing course. You use too little Canadair for this, without worrying about what set the plain on fire. Basically, with this budget and the text that will be discussed this afternoon in the Chamber, you use the same method as when your Minister of State Nicolas Hulot left. At the time, it denounced your policy as the system behind the deterioration of the climate and the environment. You responded with individual psychologization, presenting him as someone from civil life, who would not have understood the need to follow rhythms, etc. You bring there, in fact, the same answer, except that you address yourself to the people, who have moved, who have awakened powerfully and who are watching you. To do this, you try to recycle the words of order of the yellow vests, at the service of your own policy. They tell you "tax injustice," you hear "less taxes." They tell you "equality of all in the territory and access to public services", you answer "too much state". They say "hunting privileges," you say "not touching capital." This leads you to contradictions that have become even more apparent in this hasty and accelerated debate. It started with the introductory article, which we discovered, at least, on late. However, it was important, even if, as I understand it, we are not under the increased supervision of the European Commission or under the sanction applicable in the event of an overrun, for two consecutive years, of the gold rule setting the maximum deficit at 3% of GDP. However, for the proponents of the ordoliberalism that you are, of this ideology that forces national parliaments not to exceed a sacrosanct rate, to rise to 3.2% deficit, as you are preparing for it, would have deserved a little more attention and debate during the examination of the introductory article. All the more so as we are told at the same time – this has been repeated this morning – that many budgetary measures will be taken during the year without Parliament being able to say its word. This is the case with the €1.5 billion in free cuts in public spending announced to us. Of course, Mr. Darmanin told us the other day that it was a habit, that the budgets under implementation could be revised. But finally, although it has not been a parliament for a long time, it does not seem to me that it has often happened to carry out pre-announced cuts of 1.5 billion, without the National Assembly being able to decide what they will be about. The same applies to the various measures you are announcing but which are postponed. I am thinking of the postponement of the corporate tax provisions or the issue of GAFA – the digital giants – which we discussed here. This was one of our great surprises, and I suppose it was the same for all the opposition groups, who had brought this amendment to the Senate: thanks to the amendment tabled by Marie-Noëlle Lienemann and unanimously approved in the Senate, but which you refused at the outset, we could immediately have applied to the GAFA what you are telling us will be applied to them in a few months' time, that is, a tax not only on advertising, which would be the subject of an agreement that you are trying to win out at the European level, without being certain to do so, since three countries, and not the least, of the tax havens that live there, are still opposed to it. And you tell us in advance that, regardless of this agreement, you will somehow tax the turnover. In addition to this introductory article, another important article that we all voted for, since it corresponds to the first claim of the yellow vests and enshrines their first victory, is the 18 terdecies: the cancellation of the increase of the carbon tax. However, you have refused – this is a real problem – to consider securing it, declaring all our amendments inadmissible. One of them tended to restore the ISF, whose product was, I would remind you, the same amount as the increase in the carbon tax; This would have made it possible not to increase the deficit or to aggravate cuts in public expenditure. Another was related to flat tax. Another, concerning kerosene, was aimed at taxing air travel; We were told that the Chicago agreement prevents action on this point, whereas it is actually possible, because this agreement, I remind you – in particular to the rapporteur-general, who replied on this point – does not concern domestic flights. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Let's move on to the precariousness bonus, which earned us, the day before yesterday, a homeer's night. The Presidency has tried to get an amendment to deal with the subject quickly, and we have had to catch it up with the flight with a point of order, supported by all the oppositions. This allows us today to state that, by announcing that a worker's salary at the SMIC would increase by 100 euros per month as early as 2019 without costing the employer another 1 euro, Mr.Macron made three lies in a short sentence. First lie: it will not be the salary that will increase but a bonus granted to people paid to the SMIC, which is obviously an important nuance. Why? You have understood this well: a premium does not open up the same rights, particularly with regard to unemployment, retirement and the sustainability of wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u25	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u26	To begin with, you invented an activity bonus, except that we were told right away that it was not going to affect all people affected by the SMIC and that those living with a spouse with a slightly higher income would be deprived of it. The number of beneficiaries is therefore approximately halved. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Third lie: you voted for a €2.675 billion credit, on which we questioned you in vain two nights ago, but thanks to Amélie de Montchalin, whom I congratulate for his honesty, we finally got a response yesterday in the Finance Committee, and we have thus discovered, if we take into account the 5 million tax homes concerned, that the €90 security premium announced by the Prime Minister would actually fall to an average of €44.60. All these households will therefore not receive 90 euros of activity premium: Mrs de Montchalin confirmed yesterday that they will only receive between 25 and 90 euros. While some will receive €90, most of the households concerned will actually receive less than €44.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u27	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u28	In addition, this third lie will be paid for by all of us. You're doing a little Keynesian politics, a little policy of recovery, you're putting a little money in the service of purchasing power, but, as you're not used to it, I repeat, you're doing it wrong, not enough and you're not taking the money where it's necessary. I would point out that in ten years the share of labour compared to capital in value added has fallen by 10 percentage points, which amounts to around EUR 150 billion per year. Instead of touching capital, you have decided that it would be through taxes, social contributions, that we would contribute to this renewed purchasing power. However, we proposed amendments to increase the SMIC to EUR 1400 but you told us that it would cost too much money, that it would be impossible for companies. First, for some companies, this would be largely possible. And then we delivered you the solution: instead of giving 40 billion euros to companies through the CICE, without any counterpart – a measure, I remind you in passing, whose most positive study carried out by the Government estimated that it had allowed, in several years, to preserve only 100,000 jobs – instead, I said, to give these 40 billion to companies, it would have had to be used to enable them to move on to those who are developing in a very competitive sector and who play the job game. In the meantime, you have decided not to increase SMIC. Basically, the problem is this: you want to give up a little purchasing power but without affecting the distribution of surplus value. You have been thinking for a very long time, and you repeat, that the problem in this country would be the cost of labour – what we call the price of labour. However, as I have just demonstrated, it is not work that costs too much but uninvested capital. Your logic makes you improvise, accumulate errors. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel brandishes a newspaper]] Mr. The Mayor often praises your economic policy by quoting extraordinary figures. Of course, I do not disagree, the international situation is bad, there is a global economic slowdown, but you are aggravating it. From this point of view, all the figures given yesterday by Le Monde...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u29	My dear colleague, you have no right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u30	Oh, it's okay! It's a journalistic source.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u31	There's a rule, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u32	We don't have the right to shake papers in the gallery!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u33	Think of the background instead of exclaiming yourself! All the figures, I said, whether they are growth, household consumption or purchasing power, are lower than last year's figures. And the only branch you've been hanging on to in recent days is the INSEE forecast for 2019; There is nothing to say – INSEE and economists agree – that these forecasts will come true. In other words, 2018 was a very bad year for the French economy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u34	Worse than under François Hollande!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u35	... except for the richest 1% you've had with the removal of the ISF and the switch to flat tax. In addition, contrary to what you often welcome, Mr.Le Maire, business investment is declining, unless we compare the second quarter of 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u37	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You also say that industrial employment is increasing. Again, I'm sorry to contradict you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u38	He's up 3%!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u39	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] As soon as we don't refer to the documents you're using to answer us, it shockes you a little. In the industrial sector, it is true that the number of jobs increased by 5000 in 2018, but at the same time there are 49500 more temporary jobs! In other words, the jobs you have created are precarious jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u40	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The total number of hours worked shows that industrial employment is falling, that's the truth! But you continue to pursue the same policy. You are only trying a policy of revival to let go of the ballast but without giving you the means to do so. Moreover, I repeat, it will cost us a lot of money in terms of deficits and social security. I'll give an example. You're saying you're going to desocialize overtime. However, we have voted that the 2.5 billion that this measure will cost social security will not be compensated. As a result, with the de-socialisation and de-socialisation of overtime, you are putting a very bad blow to the labour market: any manager, when he needs to make the employees work more, will resort to overtime, which will cost him less.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u42	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u43	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] But if: they are desocialized and defied! It may be annoying to you, but it's reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u44	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u45	Can you shut them up, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u47	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] If he has a choice between desocialised hours and defiances that cost him less or hire an employee who, de facto, will cost him more, any company manager will choose the first option.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u48	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u49	Yes! Business leaders aren't idiots!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u50	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In fact, some members of the majority, when they were in the opposition yesterday, said the same thing to the right – as Mr Castaner did in 2013, when he had a different opinion than today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u51	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u52	That was five years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u53	[[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] It may be annoying to you, but it's reality. [[Continued exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I'm going on. This measure is an unemployment trap and, in addition, you will make people work a lot more.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u54	A little calm, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u55	It's really unbearable, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u56	That is why I ask for a little silence, Mr Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u57	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You can give me one or two more minutes... Our colleagues are not happy to hear certain realities. Maybe they'd have to put them in the head!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u58	Let the speaker finish his remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u59	[[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I'm going on. So you're creating an unemployment trap and you're going to get employees to work more. But the more you work, the more health problems you have, it's exactly like retirement: the more you ask people to work late, the more people have health problems. And since, at the same time, you're going to lower the contributions, there will be a time when we'll be told that there won't even be any more money to treat the workers you've forced to work longer. That's the reality. I'll tell you one thing: the problem in France is not that people don't work enough; It's because they don't earn enough. Don't! I would even add that many unemployed people would only like to work and that this is what we should do instead of choosing solutions that are not. You're going to lower government revenues, you're going to lower public spending, you're going to lower social contributions. Do you really think that the yellow vests will take these bladders for a very long time for lanterns? Above all, I'll tell you, your budget will multiply them. The police are already engulfing in the breach and threatening to launch a social movement. You immediately granted them 300 euros. I am very satisfied with this, but I would be surprised if it met their expectations, particularly with regard to unpaid overtime. They not only represent less purchasing power, but also indicate the number of police officers who would have had to be hired for years to cope with the increase in their duties. However, police officers who are less tired, less worn out, less under pressure are less likely to resort to reprehensible repressive measures. You don't give anything to others: nothing for public servants, nothing for hospital staff, who also accumulate overtime.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u61	Mr Coquerel, you have spoken for more than fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I'll tell you three-colored vests soon. Indeed, nothing for the DGF, the overall operating endowment: you will soon see demonstrators girded with their tricolor scarf. Nothing for the chambers of commerce and industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u63	We must conclude, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u64	There's nothing to go back on the APL plank. There's nothing for accessibility for people with disabilities. There is nothing to do with the discriminatory increase in the fees for foreign students and which exacerbates the distortions in the selection at university. Nothing about the indexation of pensions on the rate of inflation. Nothing about the terrible mistake...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u66	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Give me another minute, frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u67	I'll give you 15 seconds, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u68	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Nothing, I said, about the terrible error of the levy at source, of which we are all telling you that it will cause a social tsunami as soon as the French discover that they will have less money on their payroll. Besides, on this last point, I can't figure out what you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u69	Mr Coquerel, you cannot discuss another subject. Please come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u70	I do not understand that the majority, who face all the oppositions, which show them their wrongs, persists in error.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u71	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Hued on the benches of the LaREM group. – The president cut the speaker's microphone]] Anyway, I'm announcing a lot more yellow vests in the future. It is desirable, for you to change your policy, for you to change course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u74	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] We must let the speakers speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u75	Don't start, please, with such remarks. I am in control of the debates, and I have left Mr Coquerel a few seconds more than expected, as a result of the sitting movements that were able to interrupt him. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u76	Of course, the Members of the La France insoumée group will vote in favour of the motion to reject beforehand, for the reasons mentioned in detail by Mr Coquerel. I would point out that, from the beginning of the examination of the text, we pointed out that the budget for 2019, identical to that of 2018, was a budget for the rich – abolition of the ISF, flat tax – while only a few DIY projects are planned, at the margin, in favour of purchasing power, with exemptions that weaken the social system. After the movement of the yellow vests, you could have seen your copy again, but nothing has been done in this sense: you've been content with a few small details, I repeat, at the margin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u77	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u78	You left a few crumbs to the most modest, without touching the richest grisbi, as our colleague has shown so well at the moment. By doing so, not only do you weaken the social security budget and you cut the state budget, so that the budget for 2019 is insinuating, but you do not meet the legitimate and double requirement of the French: more tax justice and more public services – and better public services. The yellow vests understood this smoke, this tartufferie. The discussion on a new reading did not allow for a review of all these points. It was therefore only a false debate which, I hope, will no longer be necessary when you start the great dialogue that you want to have with our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u79	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u80	The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of the motion to reject it for at least one reason: the continuation of your tax measures in favour of capital and of all the measures that deprive the budget of several billion euros of revenue, while there are so many needs that are urgently needed for our citizens and our public services. You have chosen to maintain all these tax relief measures such as the flat tax or the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth, whose restoration has been so much demanded by our fellow citizens in recent weeks and while 70% of the French support the yellow vest movement. You have chosen to maintain all the tax exemptions for financial income, dividends, profits of the big multinationals, while, I repeat, public services have so many needs, including the public hospital service – and I am thinking of the tragedy that occurred a few hours ago, when a patient died on a bed in the emergency department. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] But you continue to deprive the budget of more than EUR 10 billion of revenue because you have made the choice to reduce capital taxes, as you say every time. You give gifts to those who do not need them. In short, there are always those who will pay more and those who will not pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u81	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u82	I will start with the end: Members of the running Republic Group will not vote on this motion, I suppose you will not be surprised. I will not repeat what the rapporteur-general has said very well: with 10,000 amendments, hundreds of hours of discussion, the work has been done and well done. This budget is a good budget, which aims to solve – from this point of view, Mr Coquerel, I agree with you – one of the endemic problems of the French economy: that of the unemployed excluded from the labour market. On all the benches of this House, we wish to be able to put them back to work, but what differentiates us is that we do not agree on the solutions. You continue to think – what I respect, while in total disagreement with you – that companies and employees are in opposition. We continue to think – we campaigned on this subject, we were elected for it, and that is the policy we are implementing – that companies and employees are in the same boat, and that we can help French companies create more value, more jobs and more purchasing power, and at the same time improve the purchasing power of employees and the employment situation for those who do not. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I want to correct a mistruth. You say we give companies a gift with overtime. We must be clear: we do not lower the employer burden on overtime. Some companies even blame us for that sometimes. We therefore do not favour the substitution of employment with overtime; We simply allow companies to distribute more purchasing power to employees, which is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u83	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u84	Members of the Republicans Group will obviously not vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. However, I would like to draw your attention to the singular, unique nature of definitive reading. In a few days, I think it's never before seen, the budget deficit will have been increased by almost EUR 9 billion. It now stands at 107 billion euros. The deficit has not been so high for ten years. What does that mean? In 2019, our public debt will be over 100 per cent of GDP. Thus, due to the lack of savings, all these expenses are transferred to future generations. At this level of debt, we will face a real danger in terms of risk premium, a problem encountered not so long ago for the Spanish debt and which now arises for the Italian debt. Ministers, you are taking disproportionate and foolish risks in terms of financing our deficit, which, I would remind you, is covered by two thirds by foreign operators. In addition, the adjustments that you propose to us are very worrying because obviously insufficient. For example, neither the energy cheque nor the cost side nor the tax burden of overtime are taken into account in terms of revenue losses. Above all, you do not take into account the downward adjustment of the growth prospects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u85	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u86	As INSEE told us at the beginning of the week that growth is likely to be limited, alas, to 1.3% in 2019, you keep your initial assessment of 1.7%. The growth of 2018 will also be much lower than expected, but you only take into account the effect of this retraction compared to the forecast, on the basis, of 2 billion euros. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I mean my great concern for our public finances and the irresponsibility we show for future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u87	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u88	The Socialist and Related Group will not take part in the vote, either on the motion to reject it beforehand or on the motion to refer it back to committee, as their adoption would lead to an impasse,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u91	... knowing that the PLF for 2019 must be promulgated before 31 December in order to be able to pay civil servants in January and collect taxes. However, I would like to say publicly that we share many of the arguments that have just been developed, particularly with regard to wealth sharing and taxation. We consider that the original fault of this government dates back to the 2018 Finance Bill, which included the introduction of the single lump sum levy and, above all, the abolition of the ISF. We have demonstrated, throughout the discussions, that another path was possible, that another fairer budget could be chosen. Finally, I will address my colleagues on the left bench in particular: the fight will continue, particularly in the Constitutional Council, because we have a lot to say about the insinuity of the budget. I am thinking, for example, of the progress made last night for our police officers: this is a good measure for their salaries but I do not believe that it can be translated into the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u92	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u93	It is without joy that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers this debate. We are very appreciative of the concern expressed by Mr Carrez and we were in favour of other funding solutions, which were put forward last Thursday during the discussion on the motion of censure by our Chairman, Mr Mignola. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] However, we consider that there is an urgent need, that we cannot step back in front of the obstacle. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I think you are all the more comfortable in challenging this budget because you have the certainty that it will be adopted. If it were not to be, you should be accountable to your constituents and to all the French for the inability we would find ourselves in to finance, for example, the activity premium. You have strong arguments, I admit, but there is an urgent need. You have the comfort of being in opposition, but we have the responsibility to respond immediately to the needs and demands expressed by the French. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u94	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u95	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Without adding to that, since the IUD, Act and Independent Group will be speaking in the general debate in a few moments, I am content to say that a motion to reject beforehand has no meaning with regard to a finance bill, only a few days from the beginning of the following year. The State obviously needs a budget to operate from 1 January 2019. As at first reading and again, we will not therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u96	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. [[A whistle is heard on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u97	They're whistling us now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u98	The rapporteur-general was surprised that procedural motions had been tabled, stating that it was technically impossible to amend the text, and Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges had just said that he was surprised that Parliament was expected to fulfil its role. What is quite surprising is that you so docilely accept that our role is reduced to stamping out finance bills without being able to amend them. Having said that, I come to my point. After the motion of rejection, brilliantly defended by my colleague Éric Coquerel, I am here before you to propose that your draft budget for 2019 be referred back to committee. Perhaps you are not ill-intentioned, perhaps the members of La France insoumée were "too intelligent, too subtle, too technical", I would like to grant it to you. That is why I propose that you adopt a motion to refer it back to committee: in order to give you time for understanding and maturation. Perhaps you are as much as we are in favour of popular ecology. Inadvertence, no doubt, you have maintained tax niches that allow polluters to pollute free of charge. But how can you talk about popular ecology without giving back to the people the billions of gifts given to the rich? It's "too technical," I'll give it to you. How can we maintain an unfair course when 1,400 French industries, including Total, are not subject to the carbon tax and receive almost free rights to pollute via the European carbon market? It's "too subtle," really. Give the ISF back first! This is "too intelligent." Fortunately, after several weeks of demonstrations and general insurrection, you understand. There is no need to go to COP24 to defend the Paris agreement. Let's stay focused on the demands of the French and French. You acted fast and hard. Tuesday, within four hours, you canceled the few most precarious accompanying measures of the transition, then you canceled the cancellation, because the string was too big. Then, in one night, you sent the budget debate. This draft budget does not involve any increase in public investment for the ecological transition, while 20 billion a year is missing, nor is there any additional financial and human resources for the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and its operators, for public research or for climate change education. There is no change in your pro-rich roadmap after the yellow vest movement: you maintain the relaxation of the Doutreil pact, you virtually remove the exit tax, you unindex social benefits. The French want to live instead of survive, and you announce that you want to remove an additional 1.5 billion euros to finance measures they have never asked for. This is what remains of the last night of legislative slaughter. First, with regard to housing, your thermal renovation policy does not follow. What is the logic between the capping of the ANAH budget – the National Agency for Habitat Improvement – and the renovation objectives to date that have not been met? The energy check remains insufficient in view of the more than 12 million people in situations of energy insecurity, i.e. one fifth of the hexagonal population. With a cheque of an average value of 200 euros, it is impossible for households to significantly improve the energy situation of their housing, when it is known that the average heating expenditure exceeds 1200 euros per household. With regard to housing, we must mention the further decline in individualised housing subsidies: with more than 900 million savings by 2020, millions of households will be further plunged into economic and social insecurity. What will you do with these young workers, students, pensioners who will no longer be able to pay their rent from next year? In another register, agriculture and food, the account is not there either. The only measure we can welcome, which I am doing on behalf of my group, is the exclusion of palm oil from the list of biofuels. This measure was taken in high struggle, on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday, against the Government's opinion. But there is no measure in the text to move our agriculture towards a more sustainable model. Yet our farmers are actors in the ecological transition, and we must stop presenting them as opponents of respect for the environment. Agricultural production and respect for the environment are the two sides of an imperative transition to preserve our common goods: water, air, soil. This transition requires strong public actors. The ecological transition requires significant public investment, particularly in research, in order to find ever more efficient and innovative solutions. But again, your majority makes disastrous choices. Why continue to grant "a crazy money", the €6.2 billion research tax credit, to companies that do not advance research? The research tax credit has at most financed the change of title of some commercial directors, who, overnight, become research and development directors, so-called researchers, who seek nothing but the profit of their business. This money would be much more useful if it had actually been spent on research, for example by the CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research – who is in dire need of it. We are investing only about 1% of our GDP in research, which is far from enough for the ecological transition objectives that we must meet. It is a sign of a lack of political will. By comparison, the Nordic countries, at the forefront of the search for innovative solutions for the ecological transition, spend up to 3% of their GDP on research. With the budget we are going to vote on, we are very late. We need strong public actors to propose solutions to the release of glyphosate poison; we need strong public actors to fight junk food, a modern scourge that kills every day; We need strong public actors to get out of nuclear power. And yet, you choose to cut within the perimeter of the ecology, to remove posts in the ministry and its operators. These are losses of human, technical and material resources, losses of skills that we cannot do without. Of course, the ecological budget is increasing by €1 billion, but compared to the 34 billion that the ICTPE – the internal consumption tax on energy products – reports, it is a drop of water, especially since in 2019, only 19% of the revenue from this tax allocated directly to the ecological transition. In conclusion, I would like to take the example of a taxpayer who alone symbolizes the spirit and letter of your finance bill, your vision of tax and environmental justice; that taxpayer, or rather, I should say, this non-contributory, is one of those tax fraudsters that Minister Darmanin intends to track down on social networks. So I got myself into a virtual riddle of the Ministry of Finance. The fraudster is sneaky, and it took me a long search – about half a minute – to fall on the pictures of his yacht: you know, this kind of makeshift boat – or rather, I should say, a boat of fortune – that sails with tax-free diesel fuel, this kind of raft whose owner is not officially the owner, because it belongs to a Maltese company: it is more convenient not to pay taxes, whereas this shell of nuts is worth 130 million euros. To make sure the tax police don't catch up with this owner, in case, being as lucky as I am, she unexpectedly fell on her Facebook photos, this ship sails under the Cayman Islands flag. Bernard's boat – or Arnaud, I don't remember his name well – is called Symphony: a poetic name for this ode to tax evasion! [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Yet it would be easy to play a completely different score, a partition in major tax justice: by establishing, for example, the universal tax, also called differential taxation. In this system, the French citizen, wherever he resides in the world, must pay his contribution according to his means; If he pays less tax where he resides, then he has to pay the difference with the tax he should have paid in France. It would never be just the return of the classic adage: "From each one according to his means, to each according to his needs. » By tracking tax fraud and optimisation, we could recover a few tens of billions of euros recovered in a simple and basic way. When these billions have finally returned to the common pot, that of the general interest, they will allow to write this new partition. It would also be an ecological transition partition. Today, the 1 per cent of the wealthiest taxpayers emit 40 times as much carbon as the 10 per cent of our poorest citizens. And the French will pay four or six times as much carbon tax as industrialists like Total, which is the nineteenth largest polluter in the world! In other words, there are incredible margins for progress in achieving the ecological transition that will benefit all. This is an absolute urgency, as the IPCC – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – recalled in its last report a few weeks ago: we now have two years to change our course. But from this urgency and common sense, nothing goes back to you: this budget for 2019 is unbroken, without changing its course to try to save an ecosystem compatible with human life. It is enough to be convinced of this to note the absence of our top leaders at COP24, which has just led to a fiasco. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] This state budget is one more year lost over the two years we have. It is therefore imperative to rewrite it: I therefore request that it be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u99	In explanation of vote on the motion for referral to committee, the floor is Mr Eric Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u100	For two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u101	It is a pity that my speech comes first: I was hoping to be able to respond to the explanations of vote of the other groups. However, I would like to take this opportunity to supplement my colleague Loïc Prud'homme's precise speech. I would like to return to one point which I mentioned briefly earlier. One thing surprises us: as all opposition groups warn you, you have refused to ease the shock for the local and regional authorities represented by the decrease in the overall operating allocation, which will decrease by 467 million euros, after having already decreased by 3.9 billion in 2017 and 2018. However, it is known that there is a link, in difficult areas, between territorial inequalities and the movement of yellow vests. In the same way, the Senate, following an appeal by parliamentarians from all sides to the Prime Minister in favour of the Seine-Saint-Denis, decided to set up an interdepartmental solidarity fund that would allow this department to recover some money from the wealthy departments. You cancelled this measure with a pen trait, while the Senate and all opposition groups in the National Assembly were in favour of it. I mentioned earlier the question of chambers of commerce and industry, the KICs. You may not expect the Insoumis or the Communists to defend them, but we pledge you not to reduce their endowments: it is a demand that is expressed everywhere, especially in rural areas. Again, you let the opportunity pass, sweeping these requests with a back of your hand. This budget provided you with the opportunity to repair many of the mistakes you made. If there had not been the movement of the yellow vests, you would not even have tried to repair some of them – I am thinking in particular of the increase of the carbon tax. But, once again, we judge that we do not go far enough. Your answer is next to the plate; That is why the Group of the European People's Party supports this motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u102	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u103	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion for referral to committee. A number of amendments that we had tabled, in order to open up certain horizons by amending this bill, have been declared inadmissible, so they will not be considered in public sittings. We believe that we must go back to this discussion, that we must give it space. A very important debate is taking place in our country: we must live up to the aspirations of greater social justice and tax justice throughout the country. However, the budget you are proposing does not respond to this at all. Over time, you have agreed to move slightly back on some points. That is not enough: we must now move in the right direction. That is why we should give ourselves additional time to debate, to deliberate, to examine these provisions, to examine others. That would allow us to improve this budget. Then you could – to use the expression used by a majority speaker – really vote it with joy. We are fundamentally opposed to the direction of this finance bill. We therefore propose that you open a discussion so that we can really take into account what is happening in our country, and the aspirations that I referred to earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Eric Coquerel also applauds]] The Prime Minister explained that today's issues come from far away. He's right about that. This means taking the time for a real reorientation. That is not what you are doing with this finance bill: you are content with light craftsmanship, keeping your course, which is deeply liberal. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u105	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u106	Ministers, I will not go back to the economic data that Gilles Carrez put forward earlier, nor to the arguments he put forward when he put forward the motion to reject it beforehand. I would like to return, more specifically, to certain measures. The President of the Republic recently announced, in his great address on television, that he understood the message of the yellow vests and would show a little more humanity. At least that's what we expected: to be less distant from the French. It must be noted that this message, intended for all our fellow citizens, has not been applied here in the National Assembly. You ministers, like you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have a real difficulty hearing the oppositions. It is sufficient to look at certain measures, such as the one concerning the KICs. You cannot say that the solution chosen in this matter is satisfactory! With reductions in taxes allocated to industrial technical centres, you will undermine the competitiveness of companies in innovative sectors. Through the insurance tax on credit agreements, whether it be real estate loans or consumer credits, you will punctuate 600 million euros on households. It is not a measure of purchasing power, far from it! Finally, with regard to the energy transition, you have rejected our amendments to take account of fuels of agricultural origin. You've wiped out all these proposals with a back of your hand. Again, this is a mistake, because the crisis in our country is deep. It is not enough to say that you hear it: concrete steps must be taken to get out of it. This crisis reflects a feeling of downgrading, a sense of abandonment: this is what people in rural areas feel. However, this finance bill does not include any measures in favour of rural areas, far from it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will not, however, vote on this motion to refer it back to committee, because that is not the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u107	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u108	Unsurprisingly, we will not vote on this motion for referral back to committee, particularly because of the very tight timing that we must respect. We regret, however, that we do not have enough visibility, particularly as regards the development of the government deficit. Nevertheless, we support these emergency measures, which largely meet the expectations of our fellow citizens. It is therefore in a spirit of responsibility that we will not vote on this motion for referral to committee. Of course, we will remain attentive to the implementation of this budget, and to its effect on the purchasing power of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u109	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u110	We have arrived at the final reading of the 2019 Finance Bill. Every day, our fellow citizens, especially those from overseas, see public services shrink. Closure of local post offices, hospital beds, classrooms in schools, local courts: everyone is absent from rural areas, working-class neighbourhoods and overseas territories. People see, day after day, that they find it more and more difficult to make ends meet; The less fortunate find that their bank account is earlier and earlier in the red. And in the meantime, you're offering billions to your rich friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u112	This has given rise to the great social protest movement that we know. In La Réunion, this movement was extensive and strong: you decided to respond by sending the CRS, with tear gas and grenades. Then you parachuted a minister: she announced measures already voted, believing that the Creoles would remain calm! In this budget, much is lacking, much investment. I will only take the example of the budget for the Overseas Mission, which you announced an increase of 10 million euros. All right, but it's a lie, and you know it! Compared to inflation and population growth, the budget does not increase; Worse, it's down 1.2% compared to last year! To stay up to date, 25 million euros are missing. Nothing about housing; nothing about water quality; nothing about the accompaniment of our elderly people; nothing about training and youth employment. ; nothing about widespread poverty and unemployment; nothing about access to health; nothing about the protection of our environment; Nothing to revive the economy. Instead, you have decided to totovate the tax reduction, totovate the companies by removing the unrecoverable VAT, totovate the subsidies on social housing, and I will pass it on. Despite this, the overseas will remain standing, free to think and act in his soul and conscience. By saying this word, free, I can only address a deep thought to my island, La Réunion. Today is December 20, 2018. [[Conciliabules]] On December 20, 1848, 170 years ago, La Réunion was indeed aware of the abolition of slavery. On this anniversary date... please, ministers, it would be nice to listen to me...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u113	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u114	[[Conciliabules]] ...because a day like today is not like any other day. On this anniversary date, Happy Feast of Freedom to Réunionnaises and Réunionnais! I see that it is not of interest at all to Messrs. Ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u115	You could still listen to the ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC Group]] Happy holiday to the Reunions and Reunions who live in the Hexagon. I have a thought for them because many rise at four o'clock in the morning to go to work in the cold, whereas today is a holiday in Reunion because it celebrates the abolition of slavery. I also have a thought for Réunionnais and Réunionnais who live in other overseas or elsewhere in the world. Happy holiday to all the French and to all of you who are in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u117	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u118	[[Jean-Hugues Ratenon delivers several sentences in Creole Réunionnais]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Now, let me finish in Creole, please, because today is not a day like any other. I say again: today is not a day like any other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u119	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u120	[[Smile]] Avoid talking in Bourbonese patois!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u121	We are voting on the nation's budget today, but let it be said with force, ministers: the party is not over, it is just beginning. From this afternoon onwards, we will continue to carry the iron and strongly defend the proposals that we have put forward since we arrived in this House, 18 months ago, all these proposals guaranteeing the cohesion of our country, respectful of republican values, oriented towards the common good and the best to live together. Ladies and gentlemen, this healthy anger, which has animated our people and irrigated the territories for several weeks, feeds our fight for equality and social justice. Hope reborn and began to drive away fatalism; the idea that we can't do anything about it disappears slowly. Create wealth, of course, even if you have to ask yourself under what conditions, but distribute it above all! All our proposals are part of this framework. Let's talk about wealth. Let us be clear: our country has never created so many. But like the vast majority of our citizens, the large number, all these workers, the precarious, the pensioners and the young people do not see the colour of it, there is not much to look for to explain the unique mobilization that our country is experiencing. Our country has never been so rich, I said, which makes unemployment, poverty, inequality, social and territorial divides and the lack of a comprehensive response to the ecological crisis even more unacceptable. Our fellow citizens, whether from mainland France or overseas, aspire to live with dignity and to be respected. They have a legitimate sense of having paid for this crisis for which they are not responsible. They feel that they have been sacrificed on the altar of globalization. They now want their daily lives to improve, especially through a better distribution of wealth. But the finance law for 2019 goes down this aspiration. Rather than facing the mechanisms that lead to an ever greater share of the wealth created by a minority, your budget fuels them! He's putting oil in the inequality machine. He's putting oil on the fire. Indeed, what steps are you taking to stop our country from parading on the podium of dividends distributed to shareholders for several years now? Faced with the cries of the people, you build dikes in order to make the taxation of capital, the ISF, the flat tax, the double CICE at 40 billion euros, and all these measures to the benefit of the small number. The announcements of the President of the Republic that we will be looking at this afternoon are no less than a smokescreen, a bone to eat, a strategy of diversion so that the keystones of your political project are not undermined: the sacrosanct competitiveness of companies and the freedom of movement of capital. So these are the untouchables, your totems that lead you to set up the activity premium, a gas factory that will lead to the financing of this measure for the people themselves. There is no question of touching the most fortunate: this philosophy drives your entire budget. So ask the overseas countries to finance their own development, turning their backs on national solidarity. So you will understand why we will vote against your finance bill. Faithful to our values, committed to the expression of our fellow citizens in the territories, we have approached these debates constructively, tried to engage in dialogue in order to find solutions to our country's difficulties and enable it to meet the challenges it faces. Four guidelines have animated the Communist and GDR MPs throughout the last few months: to guarantee to all our fellow citizens the means to enable them to live in dignity; reinvigorating our public services to ensure both better territorial networking and ambitious territorial networking; fight against tax evasion, cancer of the economy, and reform our taxation to ensure that it progresses both for businesses and for households so that small and large people pay big;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u122	[[Smile]] I do not know how to take it, Mr rapporteur-general!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u123	It's not a matter of weight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u124	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u125	... to succeed in the ecological transition, which implies large-scale public investments that must be financed by innovative instruments, in particular through the creation of a solidarity contribution for the planet. Faced with the certainties of a new world that is crumbling,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u127	... we are more convinced than ever of the validity of these four guidelines and will continue to carry them, here and everywhere in France, to meet the aspirations of the people. No one can be right against everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u128	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u129	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u130	Let's make it clear: we cannot address the final reading of this 2019 finance bill without mentioning the movement of yellow vests, which will have marked our budgetary debates to the end. In the Libertés et Territoires Group, we are particularly committed to the defence of social justice, the fight against territorial divides, and the promotion of a sustainable development model, both in environmental terms and in terms of public finances. These are the main issues raised by this movement. That is why we believe that this budget should have answered three questions: is it socially just and economically effective? Does it promote ecological transition? Does it respect our European commitments? We consider that it is not fair, and that is why the Government was forced to urgently, and in some improvisation, provide a meaningful answer to the question of purchasing power through the text that the National Assembly will consider earlier. However, the measures announced raise real difficulties since the main beneficiaries of the desocialisation and defiance of the end-of-year premiums will be the employees of the major groups and not those of the TPE-SMEs. You are therefore increasing the inequalities between the French. And what about officials who won't receive this bonus? You forget five and a half million French people who work in the public service and who have already seen their point of indication stagnating since the beginning of the quinquennium. On the other hand, you are announcing the cancellation of the increase in the CSG for pensioners, but I would remind you that 13.5 million pensioners were not affected by this increase: what are you doing with these pensioners outside of minimum old age? This is a measure that does not solve the problem of small pensions! And then you announced a monthly gain of 100 euros for the people receiving the minimum wage, or finally – pardon – one in two according to your latest statements. To this end, you have allocated EUR 2 billion on the Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities mission to finance this measure, but, as you know, it is insufficient and you will have to go back to it. Finally, this budget is not fair because it does not address territorial inequalities. And if I thank the Minister of Action and Public Accounts for sending us the simulations and the results, they only confirm this: for example, in 2019, the Seine-Saint-Denis will unfortunately lose 2 million euros of DPV – the city's political endowments – while I do not think it is one of the richest departments. Moreover, horizontal equalization stops and vertical equalization slows down with this 2019 finance bill: the numbers are there, and they are edifying. You are making a dramatic political choice by taking the risk of widening the territorial divide, especially since this finance bill foresees very heavy cuts in taxes for chambers of commerce and industry. This will be done at the expense of small KICs in our territories and therefore small businesses. However, the KICs are a local player thanks to their territorial network and, in many rural or landlocked areas, one of the last public services present for the development of these enterprises. That's what you're attacking! With regard to the ecological transition, I will turn to the fact that the Government has announced that it is renouncing the doubling of the premium for the acquisition of a cleaner vehicle, the extension of the energy check and the raising of the kilometric scale before abandoning the abolition of these measures, just two hours later... This shows that, in terms of energy transition, you are still looking for: the removal of the tax advantage for palm oil or the reintroduction of window eligibility to the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – are not enough to mask the extent of your renunciation. I am also thinking of the abolition of the zero-rate loan in the new system, which the Senate had maintained, which will have a severe impact on rural areas. In fact, last year, by mirror effect, you removed the old PTZ in the tense areas, which had a significant impact on the rehabilitation of the existing building. Finally, we regret that this text does not respect our European commitments in any way. These require a reduction of our structural deficit by 0.5 percentage points of GDP compared to only 0.2 percentage points expected before your announcements. You don't respect our European commitments, worse, you keep us away from them! However, our group believes that the emergency measures you have announced were necessary. But we regret that you are so unclear about how you intend to finance them. They still degrade the deficit by 8.5 billion! Behind this figure, there is a concern shared by many French: who will pay the bill? You juggle with the numbers and you lose the French who no longer follow you – just like us, by the way. What consistency is there to discuss a budget even though we are going to vote for 10 to 15 billion euros in additional expenditure just a few hours after the vote on this text? We therefore find this budget to be unethical. On the other hand, your methods often show the lack of respect you have for oppositions and for Parliament as a whole. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Christine Pires Beaune and Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applaud]] We regret that you have not listened more to our proposals. Your finance bill does not provide a lasting response to social or territorial inequalities and does not in any way prepare the future of the country. That is why our group will again vote mostly against the 2019 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u131	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u132	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In recent weeks, at the same time as anger was expressed in France, I have drawn the thread of past years: the city center became desert of Varennes-sur-Allier where my grandparents had their charcuterie, while more than twenty years ago, it was still well animated; the memory of this campaign in Haute-Loire where I spent my holidays with my maternal grandparents in Soubrey, a place called Salettes, a commune of 140 inhabitants where there were already no more public services; I also remember Châtel-Montagne, in Montagne Bourbonnais, deserted by his artists a few years ago. These territories where my roots are, where I was born, where I grew up, are not forgotten France: they are France, the one that we love, so diverse by its geography and by its inhabitants, that France to which we want to restore optimism and with whom we want to project ourselves in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u133	The France you are sacrificing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u134	France is a one and indivisible Republic, with all its diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u135	You're fragmenting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u136	I don't know if I understood the French anger, but what I know is that I felt it. I cannot say whether this anger resembles, by far or near, this anger that I also felt when I became aware of the difference in access to culture between rurality and the city, of the difference between the level of training provided by the universities of Paris and those of the provinces, and when I became aware that even if one worked hard, freedom was not always acquired and that the working conditions were not the same for all: I sometimes felt that the democratic debate escaped me. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups as well as on some benches of the MODEM group]] I turned this anger, my anger, into a commitment, first associative, then political: I then committed myself to a project that seemed to me to propose answers in order to reduce the inequalities at the base, so that everyone would regain power over his life and take responsibility. [[Same movements]] This is a project in which sovereignty is strengthened through a European project. What would France be in the world without the European Union? It is also an ambitious project for the ecological transition. This is what this budget continues to say, first of all through, in particular, an increase in the appropriations for school education or solidarity. It is a budget which, with the reform of corporate tax, is taking the path of European convergence, a budget which places an important emphasis on the competitiveness of enterprises and a budget with a strong ecological connotation, even if the carbon trajectory has been cancelled. Yet you know how much I believed in it, and continue to believe in it, because in my view it is a real means of transforming our economic model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u137	But he must not be punitive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u138	What this rejection of carbon taxation has highlighted,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u139	It's all about taxation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u140	...it is our inability to put in place transitional public policies. The political world is losing the notion of time. I have the impression sometimes that we can only deal with the emergency or the long time, and that we have difficulty managing the in-between.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u141	Maybe it's because you're too subtle and too intelligent?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u142	It is a question of how we go from point A to point B, at what rate and with what adherence. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Very practically, since the issue of vulnerability must be associated with that of ecological transition, we support, in rural areas, relays that are not necessarily thought of, such as the communal centres for social action, which are key actors in our rural areas in social matters. With regard to ecological transition aid, they could be a real information and accompaniment relay for these families as well as for these vulnerable elderly people, whom these social centres are so familiar with. This start of operational response was blown to my ears by angry French people. A word, at last, about our public spending. Last weekend I found in my attic a book dating back to 1989: The Public Impower. He said the same thing: there is too much spending, and the French always have the impression that state taxation is ever more important. Too present or not enough, the state is poorly present.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u143	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u144	With regard to public expenditure, all reports were written. So let us now take our courage with two hands and reform public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u145	What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u146	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let's do this together, with the administration. The social and budgetary shock of the end of the year leaves us no choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u147	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u148	It must be a point of no return for the reform of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u149	What about debt to France?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u150	Less public spending does not necessarily mean less public service:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u151	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u152	...it means a more efficient and better public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u153	A privatized public service, especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u154	Finally, we will need to see next year more Europe, more democracy and a reform of public spending and taxation. You, gentlemen, can count on your majority to carry out these reforms. In the meantime, the group of La République on the move will vote for this budget, which has been profoundly transformed since its first reading, to reform with the French. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I end with thanks. I thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance for his sometimes gentle rigor and the rapporteur-general for his demanding relaxation – you will have understood that I like oxymores –, MM. Ministers to listen to them, their teams for the work we have been able to do with them, as well as the services of the National Assembly that followed us throughout these debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u155	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u156	We are here for the final reading of the 2019 Finance Bill, a bill that will have been at the heart of a burning news and that will have been totally upset by the yellow vest movement. I recall that, on 24 September, the Government was bragging by presenting this initial budget. Since then, the situation has changed and the economic and social situation has reminded you, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to a little more humility and a little less obstinacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u158	What evolutions, indeed, since September 24th! While the projected deficit at that date was 2.8 percentage points of GDP, it is now at a much higher level. Indeed, the budget became, in a few minutes, on 10 December last, in view of the announcements made by the President of the Republic, insinuates. It would have been necessary to wait until the dawn of Wednesday 19 December to discover a government budget deficit of €8.6 billion: 8.6 billion, which leads to a deficit of €107.7 billion, or 3.2% of GDP. You have been pleased, ministers, at the time you introduced the Finance Amendment Bill for 2018, that it was not a Finance Bill bis and that it did not include new tax measures. We therefore welcomed this method. What a waste, however, given what you're doing here in view of a finance bill that has completely evolved! It is true that there are several changes, such as the removal of the increase in the carbon trajectory. If we welcome this, we regret that you did not listen to us much earlier. If we are equally pleased, of course, with the abandonment of the abolition of the reduced tariff on non-road diesel, again, what a pity that we did not hear us much earlier! What can be said about the appropriations, of the order of 2.7 billion euros, to finance the new activity premium, on which we will have the opportunity to come back this afternoon? For this reason, it does not fully respond to the announcement by the President of the Republic, who had indicated that every person at the SMIC would ultimately have 100 euros more per month. But that is not the case. Moreover, and this is much more serious, as Gilles Carrez pointed out a moment ago, all the expenses presented, some of which will be voted on this night, are not included in this finance bill: this is for example the cost of the tax and social exemption from overtime as of January 1, 2019, which amounts to some 2.5 billion euros. This is also the case with other schemes such as the cancellation of the 1.7 points of CSG for certain pensions, which are not included in either the Social Security Financing Bill or the Finance Bill. No budget appropriations are also presented for the extension of the energy cheque or the doubling of the premium to the conversion of certain assets which change vehicles. The budget you are asking us to vote is, in fact, a little virtual and, above all, ephemeral. What about growth, which is already falling a little further, and for which the assumptions have not been adjusted at all? A few days ago, INSEE reduced its assumptions in this area: for example, the growth of 2019 may not exceed 1.3% of GDP, while the assumption was 1.7%. 2018 growth is likely to end at a level that could be close to 1.5%, not 1.7%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u159	About 1.4%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u160	We are already very far from the level of growth of 2.3% achieved in 2017, which, moreover, was not to be credited to your majority. The difference between this rate of growth, the result of the previous majority, and that of your first years of office, indicates your failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u161	Worse than under François Hollande!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u162	And what did you do when you were in power?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u163	How can we not also regret that no line of credit has been planned to pay the 24 million extra hours due to our police officers who have been very heavily mobilized in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u164	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u165	What is serious is the situation of our public spending, which continues, because nothing has been done, to increase. Madame Bénédicte Peyrol, I heard you say that you had to start this project: hire him! I also invite the majority to do so. For the past 18 months, nothing has been done with regard to public expenditure, which continues to increase in volume. If we hear you on this subject, we invite you to take action. Moreover, it is an inconsistent budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u166	And insinuate and unbalanced!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u167	It is inconsistent that the Government and the majority, who say they are committed to the energy transition, have not accepted any of our amendments on the incorporation of agricultural biofuels. Inconsequential, this budget is also so because the Government has not done anything about purchasing power. The only effect of the levy at source will lead to the French being punctuated by more than 2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u168	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u169	Give back the money, Joël Giraud!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, you have understood that the Republican Group will not vote for this budget, because it is neither brave nor complete: it is illusory and is not reassuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u171	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u172	After three months of intense work, we're here at the end of the 2019 review of this finance bill. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome, on behalf of my group, the real progress this autumn. First of all, I welcome the virtues of the spring of the evaluation, which allowed us to do a better job, I believe, of quality, when we examined this finance bill. Also implemented, at the same time, the new organization of the commissions. I would also like to welcome the Government's compliance with its commitments with regard to the year-end budgetary collective. To get to the bottom, we all know here, these last few weeks have forced us to review our copy. That's right. Let us recall that the law of finance is not an end, but a means and framework in which we implement public policy – our public policies – and in which we finance them. In 2019, more than usual, this framework will be designed to evolve and adapt – starting this afternoon and then in the spring – with regard to the financing of emergency measures and the recasting of local taxation. We have, of course, heard, as a majority, the urgency shouted by the yellow vests. So yes, perhaps we should have heard the importance of these demands sooner, sooner and more strongly. On the benches of this House, I believe, we must remain modest in the face of this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u173	It's hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u174	I do not resist the pleasure of taking the words of a maxim of La Rochefoucauld: "Moditude is to merit what shadows are to figures in a picture: it gives them strength and relief. » Making it simpler, Alain Juppé recalled that demonstrating modesty is always a salutary exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u175	It's hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u176	If it is difficult, the result is ultimately to force our majority to speed up the pace of what we want to do, particularly with regard to the reduction of social contributions, the upgrading of social minimums and the increase of the activity premium. We also need to go further and faster on overtime. All these measures will give new impetus to consumption, thus to growth and, ultimately, to the prosperity of our country. We will have the opportunity to say this again this afternoon when we look at the bill on economic and social emergency measures: we need to speed up the pace of our reforms in order to move towards greater social justice, greater tax justice, but also to redefine greater wage justice. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, we must do so in order to redefine our social pact and to rewrite a social and civic contract that unites and unites the French and is established with them, because our France is much more beautiful and stronger when it is united. This is the challenge of the great consultation that will open in a few days: each and every one of us will be able to participate and will come back enriched by these exchanges and enthusiastic about the idea of facing our challenge: to rewrite this new social contract. We will also have to review the financing of these measures at the beginning of 2019. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate strongly that the MODEM Group will make very concrete and reasonable proposals on this subject so that the additional purchasing power is not financed by debt. That is essential because, as you know, we cannot accept it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] However, it will be time to talk about it again in a few weeks. The common sense that we will draw from these future meetings will certainly help us. In the meantime, our group will obviously vote on the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u177	On the whole of the finance bill for 2019, I am seized by the Republic on the move and by the Democratic and Republican Left Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u178	First of all, I would like to thank you, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, for your announcements on open data, in particular for the possibility of access to Chorus offered to all parliamentarians. We started the budget marathon on Monday, 24 September. On that date, you did not imagine, ministers – and we also – that we would find ourselves in the current situation and that the text of the budget for 2019 would have experienced such an evolution. Meanwhile, the anger of the French, an expression of a social misfortune that did not date from yesterday, has exploded and you have had to concede many changes. The budgetary orthodoxy of the 3 per cent deficit, which you and your Government colleagues were continuing to reshuffle, has finally been abandoned. The increase in the carbon tax is now part of the past, when Mr. de Rugy said here that the Government would never give it up. The upgrading of the energy check, the return of the insulation of the windows to the field of the tax credit for the energy transition, that is to say our proposals, rejected yesterday, are now proposed by the Government and its majority, and that is so much better. [[Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds. – Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM group]] I could continue the litany of measures or positions on which the Government has changed its mind within two months. You will surely explain to us that this is not a change, but a policy that is too subtle that only too intelligent people like Gilles Le Gendre have the ability to understand. The reality is, however, very simple: the Government is retreating and retreating in the face of the protest of the people and the French people dressed in yellow, many of whom have come to the roundabouts of France to challenge your unjust and ineffective policy. The measures you will propose this afternoon are their victory, but only of lost time! Since you came to power 18 months ago, the Socialist and related group has constantly alerted you by making proposals that you have constantly pushed back with a back of your hand, finally accepting some of them in the urgency and in a general government cacophony. On Monday and Tuesday, during the re-reading of the finance bill, you proposed that we vote on some of these provisions with the same conviction and energy as you used yesterday to refuse them. I will not go back to the measures announced by the Prime Minister in November, which he wished to give up the day before yesterday before changing his mind again two hours later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u179	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u180	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Rather than a mere retreat, it was called "coucas" during François Hollande's term! We're even entitled to wonder if there's still a pilot on the plane. More serious, it reinforces French distrust in the words of political leaders, of all politicians. There is, however, one point on which your budget has not evolved; it is fiscal injustice. In this respect, Emmanuel Macron stands by: the increase in taxation for large companies or our most fortunate fellow citizens is still out of the question. The ISF remains a taboo subject, a totem, which the president of the very rich does not resolve to abandon. However, tax justice is at the heart of the message addressed to us by the yellow vests and the restoration of the ISF is supported by the French. Consequently, the Socialist and related group decided to activate the procedure provided for in Article 11 of the Constitution and never again used: a referendum of shared initiative. We will go all the way to get it and make the voice of the people lead to the restoration of the ISF. [[Applause on the SOC benches – Mr Fabien Roussel also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as at first reading and again, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the draft budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u181	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u182	[[Brouhahaha]] I am pleased to conclude this final reading of the 2019 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u183	A little silence, please, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can hear the speaker correctly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u184	I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, all the colleagues and all the officials who have enabled us to work under the best possible conditions. The review of the finance bill ends in a particular context, following a significant movement to challenge your political choices and the announcement of measures taken by the executive in favour of the purchasing power of the French. However, it should be noted that many of these are not included in this text, which prevents us from having a sincere presentation of the budgetary landing and the level of public deficit that will be achieved in 2019. The Government finds itself with an unsolved equation, obliging it to degrade the public deficit forecast from 2.8 per cent to 3.2 per cent of GDP. It would not be so serious if INSEE had not revised the growth forecast downwards, setting it at 1.5% of GDP instead of 1.7%, which will result in a lower tax revenue – which you did not take into account in the bill. Of course, the Government was forced to respond urgently so that the promised measures could enter into force as early as 2019. The IUD, Agir and Independent Group supports these provisions, which aim to restore purchasing power to our citizens. It is a pity, however, that this response has taken so long, which condemns us to vote for a text with an uncertain balance, whereas for the past year we have been reporting to you the injustice of some of your decisions – I am thinking in particular of the increase in the CSG on pensions. [[Persistent Brouhaha]] Your challenge now is to restructure public action and public spending to alleviate French taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for returning to your places in silence, out of respect by the speaker, the last in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u186	I say again: you must involve public servants, all public servants, in order to change the public service, the public service and public expenditure effectively. Trust them: they will be a force for proposals if you consider them and if you associate them with these necessary transformations. Let's come to this final version of the 2019 Finance Bill. What did you decide during the new reading to reach this text? First, you decided to remove the reduced VAT rate of 5.5% introduced by the Senate on infant diapers and incontinence protections. How can you consider that these are not essential products, which deserve a reduced VAT rate? I sincerely wonder about your ability to hear that you need to know how to make decisions of simple common sense, and that is more favourable to the purchasing power of the French. Secondly, with regard to chambers of commerce and industry, I believe that this is the perfect example of your methodological mistakes. You are right about the necessary adaptation of the consular chamber network, but you are wrong to start by cutting off food and then ask yourself about their role, their missions, their future operation. Normally, we define objectives and missions and then adjust the means to achieve them, we do not do the opposite! Worse: you go back to the commitment made here last year to preserve their resources. How can we trust you when you question your own commitments? On the other hand, we urge you to put more trust in local elected officials. The President of the Republic committed himself to this at the time of his last speech. However, you have deleted Article 79 bis A on the solidarity fund for the departments of the Île-de-France region. The elected representatives of the seven departments concerned had agreed to increase solidarity between their departments. It had no impact on state finances, it was just a solidarity fund between departments in the same region. Well, no, you rejected him! Is this, for you, to take into consideration the local elected representatives? Finally, and perhaps the worst, in terms of ecological taxation, you have shown us that you will not change your method. The French have made it clear to you that they are refusing punitive ecological taxation. So you've fallen back on fuel taxation. However, you have maintained punitive taxation for farmers, with Article 76 increasing the diffuse pollution charge massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u187	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u188	Of course, this text contains useful measures for agriculture, but while these tools are not yet applicable, you place new burdens on an agriculture that cannot bear it – especially since you have refused to support real opportunities for biofuels, while these are the future for our agriculture and for the French as a whole. These are just a few examples. In conclusion, during the examination of the text, you returned to the political line you wanted to print on this budget. Above all, you have shown that you would not change your method and that you would not learn the lessons of the democratic crisis that our country is going through. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] For all these reasons, IDU, Action and Independent Members will vote mainly against this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u190	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u191	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the 2019 Finance Bill in the text voted by the National Assembly in new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u192	I put to the vote the whole of the 2019 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u193	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 237 Number of votes cast 234 Absolute majority 118 For adoption 182 Against 52
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u194	It's not even balanced, your budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-20-O1113.u195	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the draft law on economic and social emergency measures. The meeting is adjourned.
