ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u1	The next item is the final reading of the bill ratifying Order No. 2017-48 of 19 January 2017 on the profession of medical physicist and Order No. 2017-50 of 19 January 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health (No. 662).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u2	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u3	Madam President, the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you is the last text voted by this House, since the Joint Joint Committee has not been concluded. I will give myself a brief reminder of the main issues by reminding you that the ordinance whose text proposes ratification transposes into national law three new measures – including partial access – introduced by a European directive of 2013, secures and harmonises – for a number of trades – the procedures for the recognition of the professional qualifications of European nationals, and erases a difference in treatment between nationals and nationals within the European Union by removing a condition of exercise imposed so far on them in order to enter a third cycle of medical studies. As we know, the creation of the partial access procedure has raised concerns among health professionals and, to be sure, among some members of the national representation. The Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, had explained why the Government should implement the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications without delay. I would also point out that France is under threat of infringement proceedings. It is the publication of the order that you are asked to ratify, followed by the publication, on 2 November, of an implementing decree and then, in December, of seven decrees, which may help to prevent the success of a procedure that could potentially lead to the conviction of France to payment of a periodic penalty payment. That is why we ask you to proceed with the ratification of the Ordinance in all its provisions, including those providing for partial access. This is indeed the only serious way for France to honour its European commitments. Minister Agnès Buzyn also wanted to say that she would be careful to ensure the quality and safety of the care provided to the users of our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u4	It's the only thing that matters!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u5	I therefore confirm here that the Government will have been particularly vigilant with regard to the conditions for the deployment of partial access within our health system, as reflected in the decree and the decrees I referred to at the moment. The conditions for file review have been defined – and will be followed – in a particularly rigorous manner. One example is that the file review process includes an opinion not only by the committee responsible, but also by order, for the professions that have it. This second opinion, not provided for in the directive, was added by the Government in order to strengthen the process of file analysis. I will conclude by saying that, like my colleague, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnes Buzyn, committed herself to it before the two assemblies, the European Commission has been asked to draw up a map of the health professions in the European Union. Partial access fully justifies the existence of a state of affairs allowing the identification, for each national health system, of the working areas of professionals who may request partial access recognition. Madam Chair, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, these were the most important elements I wanted to bring to your attention with regard to the ratification bill before you today. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You will have understood that, in close association with health care professionals, the Government will pay particular attention to ensuring, in this and other areas, the quality and safety of the care provided by our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u6	Mrs Toutut-Picard, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u7	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men, ladies and gentlemen, our Assembly is meeting today to pass, on final reading, a bill that ratifies two ordinances: one relating to the profession of medical physicist and the other relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. I will not go back to the presentation of these two texts and will instead focus on the subject of the continuing disagreement between the two parliamentary assemblies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u8	What about between parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u9	...i.e. partial access. Several grievances were upheld by the Senate in support of its position. First of all, the High Assembly blames the executive for an alleged degree of unpreparation: I do not agree at all with this point of view. If there is an unknown "number of professionals likely to apply in France, or the very nature of the professions that might be affected", this does not make the proposed scheme ineffective or, worse, unthinkable. Both in the Senate and in the National Assembly, the rapporteurs were provided with documents to conclude on the relevance of the proposed law. On many occasions, I have presented these elements, both in committee and in open session, and at each stage of reading. I therefore refer you to the reading of my reports and the records of our debates. The High Assembly also refers to a measure that it considers to be "a measure that is capable of deeply disrupting the organization of our health care system."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u11	It is, in my opinion, wrong to read the ordinance and the implementing texts. In order to be granted, partial access will have to take into account different criteria, including the identification of the acts or scope of exercise, the description of the integration of the acts into the care process and their impact on the continuity of care. As I said during the examination of the text on a new reading, the procedure for partial access to the health professions is, in law, linked with the protection of health and the care of patients: it seems to me very important to insist on this point. If the passage of this bill will no longer place us – as it has been so far – in a state of failure to meet our community obligations, its adoption cannot, however, relieve us of our responsibilities to health care professionals and patients. The concerns expressed by the health professions can also be quickly removed through the mapping of the health professions in the European Union. The Minister for Solidarity and Health had committed herself to it before the two assemblies: she had kept the floor, since she had asked the European Commission to do so. I thank him here publicly. The Minister is also very attached – and will therefore pay particular attention – to the conditions for the deployment of partial access: I know that she will exercise constant vigilance in this regard. As she had the opportunity to say, partial access could in fact always be refused for "imperative reasons in the public interest". This flexibility, which is offered to us by the text of the directive, seems to me to preserve the quality and safety of care. In any event, the Minister of Solidarity and Health will be able to count on Parliament's determination to carry out its task of assessing the conditions of law enforcement. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As we complete the review of this text – I dare say "at last", since it had begun in July 2017 – I would like to take this opportunity to warmly thank all the actors who participated in it: not only the Minister of Solidarity and Health, her office and services, members of Parliament and senators, representatives of the professions concerned, but also the directors of our commission who accompanied me with the professionalism, competence and intellectual rigor we know them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u12	In the general debate, Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u13	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering, on final reading, the bill ratifying orders made on the basis of the January 26, 2016 bill to modernize our health care system. Our position on this text has not changed, some of which are in the right direction, while others may have a very negative impact on our health care system. First of all, we welcome the provisions introduced by Article 1, which ratifies the order allowing recognition of the profession of medical physicist. This article was adopted in accordance with the two Assemblies and was the subject of consensus among industry professionals. The full recognition of the radiophysician profession as a health profession was one of the objectives of the 2014-2019 Cancer Plan. On the other hand, we are much more reserved with respect to clause 2 of the bill, which is intended to ratify the Order on the Recognition of Occupational Qualifications in the Health Field. Our main point of disagreement concerns the introduction of a new system of partial access to the health professions, which will be in addition to the existing procedures, whether it is automatic recognition defined for certain professions by a 2005 directive or access to the practice of a health profession after observation of compensatory measures. This procedure constitutes a derogation from the already existing mechanism for the recognition of professional qualifications, which covers identical professions existing both in the State of origin or training and in the host State. Partial access relates to activities where the profession to which a health professional has been trained in his or her country of origin does not find an equivalent in his or her host country. The implementation of this partial access could have major consequences for the proper functioning of our health care system and could undermine the quality and safety of patient care. Medically, it opens a gap: it may be tempting for some practitioners to unduly broaden their scope of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u15	At the same time, we will run the risk of some less well-trained foreign practitioners coming to our territory, to the detriment of the quality of care provided to patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u16	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u17	How, moreover, can these foreign practitioners control the mastery of the French language, and in particular the specialized vocabulary? This questions the quality of future relationships between the patient and the health care professional as well as the relevance of the diagnoses. We also regret the lack of consultation with health professionals on this issue, as they are unanimously against this measure. Of course, it is up to France, as you said, the rapporteur, to transpose this measure in accordance with our Community obligations. That is the main argument in favour of ratifying this bill. But other choices were possible: it was possible to favour a different interpretation of European law, not to transpose this directive into the letter, and thus to protect the quality of our care system. I would remind you that Germany has opted for a ban, except for exceptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u18	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u19	In addition, there is no clarification on the supervisory and control powers of health orders. The guarantees contained in the decree of 5 November last authorizing partial access seem to us insufficient. We therefore regret that the majority of the National Assembly did not follow the Senate, which had wisely removed this mechanism in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u21	Our group calls for concerted action at European level to harmonise health training; This would be the only way to preserve the quality of our healthcare system and raise the overall level of competence within the European Union. We deplore the choice of the majority, especially since the other measures included in the Ordinance, such as the introduction of a European professional card to facilitate the achievement of equivalence in training between European countries, or the creation of an alert system to alert health professionals who would not have the right to practise in their country of origin, are in the right direction. As a result of the introduction of partial access clearance, our group is against the bill, which may degrade the quality of our health care system and create health security problems. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] You used the expression "it seems to me" earlier, Madam rapporteur: that is not the way to guarantee the sustainability of the scheme!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u22	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u23	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as we did last time, we have reservations about the method used: two orders are subject to joint ratification, although they are neither of the same nature nor of the same scope. In the first, you transpose into French law a European directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health, without having really thought about the consequences that this would have. In fact, it is a matter of meeting the European requirements to compete with professionals in each country – a kind of social dumping applied to medicine. Should it be recalled that health should not be a market or a commodity? Doctors from other countries will be able to practice in France while largely complying with the labour law of their country of origin. This has already been seen with posted workers: this is done at the expense of French law. In France, we do not believe that the use of this type of posted workers is a responsible and serious solution to the medical desertification experienced by our territories. You will understand, therefore, that we will oppose this order firmly and definitively. The other order is intended to recognize the profession of medical physicist; It's a step forward. My group believes that supervising this profession is, as with all professions, increasing the level of safety, both for professionals and for beneficiaries – in this case patients. Let us hope that this measure will help to avoid tragedies such as that of the 5000 surirradiated in the Epinal hospital, victims of the misuse of radiation therapy tools. This was a strong expectation from the medical community. Good if this text responds to it. We are therefore in favour of the direction taken by this order, but – because there is a "but" – what is the value of such a measure when the Minister of Health has just announced that the Government intends to "soften" the status of hospital staff? Why, on the one hand, recognise a status and, on the other, want to destabilize all the statutes in the medical community and favour the use of contractual personnel? I just recalled the case of the Epinal victims: let's not forget them. Deregulating the health professions means taking the huge risk of causing new accidents. Do we need others like Epinal's? We therefore express our deep disappointment: if the plans of the Government and the Minister of Health are implemented, this order will only be a blow to the water. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against these orders presented as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u24	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u25	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Ordinance on the profession of medical physicist is a consensus among us; We have, for our part, reiterated our agreement every time we have discussed the matter at the meeting. There is a strong emphasis on the Ordinance on the Recognition of Occupational Qualifications in the Health Field. In the current context, I want to reiterate our support for health workers, exsangued but combative, despite repeated budget cuts. Given the current suffering of professionals, the zeal for transposing the European directive on partial access to health professions seems not only to be detrimental to them, but also dangerous. It should be recalled that this mechanism has led to the opposition of the quasi-unanimity of the trade unions and health authorities in the opinion given by the High Council of Paramedical Professions in October 2016, and that it paves the way for a segmentation of the health professions – some professionals have even spoken of a "berization". The transposition of this provision raises concerns about the establishment of a two-tiered medicine, which would have major consequences for the organization and coherence of our health system. To the extent that initial training and the skills of health professions differ from country to country, the order could have important consequences not only for clarity, but also for the quality of care provided to patients: this is what we are particularly concerned about, given the rigour required of French health professionals. After the de facto pricing, is it the sequencing of the acts that we want to pass? We know that one of the strengths of our nurses is to have the capacity to provide overall care for a patient; However, partial access to the health professions would call it into question. In addition, these professionals would be appropriately recruited by health facilities that are understaffed or by communities affected by medical desertification. This would, of course, strengthen territorial inequalities in health; This would completely dismantle trades and skills to introduce sub-occupations and thus "encourage" – the term is wrongly chosen – the emergence of a low cost, under-qualified and unsecured care offering. Above all, there was another solution. Here we are presented with a particularly zealous transposition of the European directive. However, the European text makes it clear that a Member State should be able to refuse partial access "in the event of overriding reasons in the public interest". We are dealing with public health issues: we could justify compelling reasons in the public interest. I understood that we were called upon to make a prescription, but this one could have had a different content. And if the European Union has asked Member States to review their transposition of the directive, we have not even given ourselves that possibility. Other countries have opted for much less zealous transpositions, without the European Commission reminding themselves of order. So we could have taken another path, but that is not the solution that the Government has chosen. We regret it. Therefore, we believe that it would be more appropriate not to transpose this measure into our body of legislation at this time. As it stands, we will vote against these provisions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] ... which, under the guise of promoting the free movement of healthcare professionals, seems to mark an additional step in the European project to dismantle regulated professions. While health professionals are shouting an alarm, it's especially bad news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u28	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u29	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is – at last! – the time to adopt this text. Elected from a border constituency, I, like all members of my group, am very attached to European values. Since 7 December, France – like Germany, Belgium and Cyprus – has been facing severe financial penalties for failing to transpose the order which the rapporteur recalled. Since July, this text has experienced two round trips with the upper chamber; Senators further amended section 2 and removed partial access to the health professions in a public session on January 25, 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u30	And they were right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u31	Beyond the financial aspects, it is high time to pass the bill ratifying this order and send a clear message, a message of openness and confidence. Granting partial access to a fully qualified professional in a Member State of the European Union will allow him to carry out only part of the acts covered by a regulated profession in France. This will be a great opportunity for our healthcare professionals to interact with their European colleagues on different methods and career paths; These moments of sharing will be an opportunity to share practices. I will give only one example: that of doctors, whether they are generalists or specialists. Medical professions are not covered by this Directive, since the 2005 European Directive already allows them to automatically benefit from the recognition of their professional qualifications. Wherever they practice, in the city, in the countryside or in the hospital, their skills are recognized and what they bring to the quality of our care and our actions is undeniable. This recognition must be extended to other health professionals. Trust, ladies and gentlemen, is the key word of this bill. As I said, trust in our European colleagues. Trust, also, in professional orders, whose role will be strengthened, since, in order to make a decision on a request for partial access, the competent authority will have to take the opinion of the regional professional order and any request will have to obtain the opinion of professional orders within a period of not more than four months. Trust, of course, in the Government, which has undertaken to consult with representatives of the professions having an order; the draft decree will be submitted to the opinion of the High Council of Paramedical Professions and we will be vigilant as to the modalities and drafting of the implementing decrees. Trust, finally, in experienced peers who will have to assess the skills of staff whose partial activity will be allowed; This assessment will be regular and implemented in the first few months of the fiscal year. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions for partial access to healthcare professionals from another Member State of the European Union are clear; They display pragmatism and realism. There is no risk in terms of quality and safety of care. Patients and other health care professionals will benefit from clear and undeniable guarantees. These partial authorizations are also a response to the delegation of powers – to which I am very attached. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Openness, sharing, trust, skills and evaluation are at the heart of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u32	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u33	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to examine this bill to ratify two orders, aimed at transposing two European directives: one on the profession of medical physicist and the other on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. These orders were made following an authorization contained in the Touraine Act, known as the "modernization of our health care system". They date from 2013 and aim to harmonise access to health professions throughout the European Union. These directives introduce three new schemes: the European business card, the alert mechanism and partial access. This is the third time that we have met in this House to discuss this ratification bill. On 19 July 2017, we were studying it for the first time after a discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Republican Group had then voted against the text, mainly because of the introduction in French law of the possibility of partial access to regulated professions. Despite our reluctance, the majority had decided to vote on the text as it stood. The Senate amended it, and the Joint Joint Committee, meeting on December 5, ended in a failure. We therefore reviewed the text during the same month of December, without any change in the positions of the various groups in our Assembly. The Senate has also remained in its positions. It is now up to us, on final reading, to have the last word and to adopt this text. This final vote leads me to tell you at the outset, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen: our positions have not changed. Article 1 errs in the Ordinance of 19 January 2017 on the profession of medical physicist. We have no problems with this transposition, so it was adopted at the outset in accordance with our two Assemblies. However, the same is not true of Article 2, which ratifies the Ordinance of 19 January 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. This Article transposing the Directive allows partial access to professions regulated by nationals of other Member States of the European Union whose diploma obtained in the State of origin would not find correspondence in the host State. In concrete terms, a European graduate who does not have the level required to fully practise a health profession in France will be able to settle in our territory to only carry out the part of his or her activity for which he or she is qualified. We believe and maintain that this would undermine the safety of patients. There is no provision for the supervision of professionals who, once installed, would benefit from this partial access. How can you be assured that the practitioner concerned is engaged only in the activities for which he or she has been granted access? How can we be sure that the patient is well informed that the practitioner does not have the French diploma or, at least, a diploma equivalent to him? We also convey the concerns of practitioners in our territory who, quite rightly, fear that the partial access system will lead to the creation of unreadable sub-professions for the patient, at the risk of aggravating the feeling of distrust towards caregivers, already present in some of our fellow citizens. This position is, moreover, widely shared by all professional bodies. So yes, Madam Secretary of State, we understand that there is an urgent need for the French Government. The deadlines for transposing the European Directive have now been exceeded for more than two years. We are aware that the European Commission has brought the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union on the failure of France – and several other countries, moreover – to transpose this directive. We are equally aware that the Commission is asking our country to pay a daily penalty payment of EUR 53,000. But if we are aware of all this, we also know that, even in the absence of transposition, the directive is sufficiently clear and precise to have been imposed on us. And we continue to worry about what seems to us to be a "overtransposition", with regard to the methodology for allocating partial access for professionals from other Member States. However, it must be noted before we take a final decision on this text: the directive allows partial access to be refused if it is "justified by overriding reasons in the public interest". We believe that the health and safety of our citizens is in the public interest. As such, Germany's system of a priori control would have been a more judicious choice for transposition than the framework authorisation system that is before us today. In conclusion, we believe that France must remain firm on matters affecting the health of our fellow citizens. A high level of requirement is required of French practitioners, and this requirement seems to us to be quite normal. It is therefore not conceivable to open a breach in which all professionals from other Member States, whose level of demand may be much lower, could get in the way, with the risk that this entails for our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against this ratification bill, and it maintains its request for renegotiation of the directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u35	On the bill as a whole, I am seized by the IUD, Act and Independent Group of the House of Commons with a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u36	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us is intended to ratify two orders made under section 216 of the January 26, 2016 Modernization of our Health System Act. The first ordinance recognizes the profession of medical physicist as a health profession. The recognition of the profession of radiophysicist as a health profession will contribute to the quality and safety of care; That is why the MODEM and related groups support these provisions. This first ordinance, well received by the profession, is consensual. The article to which it is subject has also been adopted in conformity by the Senate. As for the second ordinance, its examination was not a long, quiet river. Indeed, the provisions on partial access raised serious concerns, making it impossible to reach an agreement between the National Assembly and the Senate on the text. This partial access scheme allows healthcare professionals to benefit from mobility in another Member State, but only to perform certain tasks. These rules apply to professionals who settle in as well as those who provide services on a temporary or occasional basis, and apply to both medical and paramedical professions. These provisions could have a direct impact on the organization of our health care system. For example, a Croatian midwife, less well trained than her French counterpart, could be allowed to give birth in France. Partial access therefore entails a real risk of depreciation in terms of quality and safety of care, creating mistrust and confusion for patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u38	However, France, like fourteen other Member States, is obliged to transpose this directive without delay. As has been said, our country has already been called to order twice under the previous government, and it is currently under threat of an action for failure to fulfil obligations brought by the European Commission, the deadline for transposition being closed since 18 January 2016. It was therefore imperative that this transposition be carried out without delay. In this regard, the Senate's position, which merely removed the partial access provisions without proposing an alternative solution, was not satisfactory. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government, while respecting European rules, has ensured that the necessary safeguards are in place. At its hearing by the Committee on Social Affairs, the Minister for Solidarity and Health gave us a number of clarifications to reassure our citizens and health professionals. She stated that she would be particularly vigilant about the conditions for the deployment of partial access within our health care system, and that it would be possible to appeal to the overriding reason in the public interest, as permitted by the directive, if the authorisation of partial access to a professional posed a risk to the quality and safety of patients. It also stated that professional orders would be systematically consulted on any request for partial access, and recalled that the text of the order provided for the establishment, by orders, of a list of activities which applicants would be allowed to carry out and paved the way for post-clearance checks. Like many of our colleagues, we had initially expressed reservations about partial access, through the voice of Cyrille Isaac-Sibille. However, the implementing decree of 3 November 2017, as well as the decrees of 9 December 2017, written in collaboration with and with the agreement of the High Council of Paramedical Professions, now provide all the necessary guarantees. It is therefore still necessary to ensure the effective implementation of partial access. We are already calling on the Government to strictly modify the authorizations for activities that can be granted in territories in tension and to set up a monitoring mission on partial access, in order to monitor and evaluate their implementation and to guarantee to our citizens that the quality and safety of patients are truly preserved. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] We thank the Minister for the constructive dialogue we have had on this issue of partial access. We will therefore vote for this text and take our full part, as legislators, in the monitoring work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u40	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u41	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u42	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u43	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union law in the field of security (No 634).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u44	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Michel Mis, alternate Mr Christophe Euzet, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time since the beginning of this XV elegislature, a rapporteur of the Law Committee is going up to the rostrum to inform the National Assembly of the success of a joint joint committee. We can welcome the constructive approach we share with our Senate counterparts, as our success rate in this area is now 75%. Our fellow citizens must know that their elected officials work without waste of time and in the public interest. On this draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union law in the field of security, the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement of wisdom. The versions of the two assemblies were, moreover, close from the beginning. The few differences were overcome by an effective and open dialogue between the two rapporteurs, Senator Philippe Bonnecarrère and our colleague Christophe Euzet, whom I am replacing today. Nor do I forget the kind support of the Chair of our Law Committee, Ms.Yaël Braun-Pivet, and her colleague Senator Philippe Bas. So what were and how did we resolve them to present a consensus text to you now? Let us be concise: there were in fact only two issues of disagreement. The first point was the risk of unconstitutionality raised by the Senate with respect to section 6, on obligations for operators of essential cyber security services. The National Assembly did not share the fear of the Senate but, during the debates, sought clarification and legal guarantees. These, together with some very minor changes, have been sufficient to reassure senators. The Joint Joint Committee has therefore been able to adopt a compromise text which is acceptable to all. The second point, which had been echoed by some of our colleagues at first reading, despite the rapporteur's explanations and the Government's commitments, related to the legal regime governing historical weapons and their reproduction. Senators wished to include in the law a principle of freedom of detention; MEPs had set a red line for absolute compliance with the requirements of European law. Again, wisdom prevailed and we reached a compromise. We have accepted that the legislator is encroaching on the area of regulation by classifying historic weapons stricto sensu into category D. The Senate has conceded that only the Government could enact the specific regime of reproductions and neutralized weapons, which it will be your responsibility, Madam Minister, to assign to category C. That, ladies and gentlemen, is how the Joint Joint Committee decided the only two substantive debates that remained between the National Assembly and the Senate. I should like to recall that the provisions on the Galileo programme had been adopted in conformity. Transposition of European directives into national law is not the most satisfactory activity for a national parliamentarian. The margin of manoeuvre is very small; most of the political issues are already settled; the development of new topics is very supervised. With this text, however, we are doing a useful job for cybersecurity, providing a first response to the need to harmonise security arrangements with our European neighbours and partners, in the face of threats of borderless and unlimited crime. Cyber risk is constantly changing. It is evolving at the pace not only of technologies, computer and electronic systems, but also of the technical capabilities of individuals and organizations involved in cybermail. These are all factors that we will have to bear in mind in order to provide answers in line with an ever-changing problem. As far as arms control is concerned, the tightening of the regime for certain weapons is a matter of common sense. Any measure to strengthen public safety can only be encouraged in the period of tension that we are going through. As far as our radionavigation capabilities are concerned, we now have a satellite radionavigation system, which will compete with the US GPS system. In addition to this service, the Galileo system emits a high-precision secure signal, the regulated public service – SPR – which is reserved for authorized users by government decision. This encrypted signal, protected against interference and lure, is intended for uses requiring high reliability of the signal, controlled by the States. We therefore needed to provide ourselves with the legal tools necessary to implement the measures to control access to this secure signal. These measures will enable France to ensure a high level of security for the regulated public service, whose applications, particularly in the field of security and defence, will help to ensure the protection of our citizens in all circumstances. They will also make it possible to break out of dependence on foreign satellite positioning systems, the control of which is totally beyond the control of European countries. The contribution of the National Assembly is not negligible since it is on our initiative, and in particular on the initiative of our rapporteur, Christophe Euzet, that France will be able to fully accede to the United Nations Protocol on Firearms. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] All this is not nothing: we have done well and worked in harmony, in good agreement and in good understanding with the Senate. I therefore call on you to vote decisively on the text before you and thus approve the conclusions of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u46	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a follow-up to the remarks just made by the rapporteur, I would also like to welcome the agreement reached by Members and senators on this important text. Adopted in the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2017, discussed and voted by the Senate on 19 December and then by the National Assembly on 31 January 2017, the purpose of this bill is to transpose two directives, respectively on the security of networks and information systems in the Union and on the control of the acquisition and possession of firearms, and to draw the consequences of the decision of 25 October 2011 on the modalities of access to the regulated public service offered by the global satellite radionavigation system resulting from the Galileo programme. There was an urgent need for Parliament to look into these provisions, in particular those relating to cybersecurity, since the transposition of the directive of 6 July 2016 is scheduled for 9 May, that of the firearms directive on 14 September 2018. The two Assemblies, in turn, have endeavoured to improve and enrich the provisions contained in the original text. Even if they may appear technical, these provisions are essential to ensure the safety of the French, whether it is the security of our information networks and systems or of public safety. With regard to Title I of the bill, which was followed by my colleague Mounir Mahjoubi, I would like to point out that the transposition of the directive of 6 July 2016, known as the NIS directive – the security of networks and information systems – provides us with an opportunity to better protect ourselves collectively by raising the level of security of future operators of essential services. On this subject, the debates in Parliament have mainly made it possible, on the one hand, to clarify certain points concerning the designation of operators of essential services and the control of digital service providers; on the other hand, to introduce the main areas in which safety rules apply. Beyond the draft law, work on the preparation of implementing regulations will soon begin, in conjunction with the National Information Systems Security Agency (ANSSI) for the designation of future operators of essential services. Moreover, as Mounir Mahjoubi had committed himself to it during the debates, he instructed me to inform you that he will come back before you to present the outcome of this work in October and to keep you informed of the evolution of the threat. Finally, in addition to the adoption of this text, which will contribute to the development of digital security, the strategic journal of cyberdefence, presented in the Council of Ministers, provides an overview of the threat and the French apparatus, and outlines ways to deal with this subject, which is essential for digital transformation. On this basis, the Government will take action both in areas that are very regal and in terms of awareness-raising and training for the entire population, because, at our level, we are all actors in the emergence of digital trust. With regard to Title II, on the control of firearms, I would like to point out that the revision of the 1991 directive on the control of firearms was carried out at the initiative of France, in the wake of the tragic attacks on France in 2015. The main thrust of this revised text is the strengthening of the control of the circulation and trade in firearms, particularly the most dangerous, as well as intra-European cooperation on firearms flows. As this project is being carried by France at European Union level, we had to be exemplary within the transposition deadlines, which we will be, by transposing the directive of 17 May 2017 with a six-month advance on the fixed term. As a reminder, the main objectives of this directive are first and foremost the abolition of the administrative regime governing the registration of weapons. From now on, all firearms will fall into at least category C, that of declared weapons. Only historical weapons and almost all reproductions of these weapons will be maintained in a regime of freedom. For the sale of arms at a distance, the text provides for a pre-delivery verification of the buyer's identity and title of possession. In practice, sales between individuals will have to be checked by a professional, prior to delivery, to ascertain the identity of the purchaser and the fact that the possession of weapons is not prohibited. Finally, the text allows armors to legally refuse to enter into transactions in arms or ammunition that they could reasonably consider to be suspicious, thereby providing them with legal protection that is currently lacking. All these provisions are guided by the desire to strengthen controls on the circulation and trade of arms, with the sole aim of public security. It was necessary and urgent to include such provisions in our law as soon as possible in the current context. The most discussed issue of these measures was the status of collecting weapons and their historical reproductions. The CMP has found a skilful compromise, which I would like to welcome, to reconcile the interests of arms collectors with the requirements of the 2017 directive. Collectors will be satisfied with the continued legislative classification of weapons recognized as historical in category D, i.e. free of declaration. At the same time, the directive will be respected by the legal possibility for the Government to classify under State control the reproductions of old weapons, according to their possible improvements in performance, although this hypothesis will remain very exceptional. On behalf of the Government, I would finally like to renew the commitment, which I had already made before you during the first reading, to take, as soon as possible, the necessary regulatory measures for the collector's card, within the framework of the law's implementing decrees. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In total, the Government is particularly pleased with the compromise reached by the members of the CMP on the provisions of the draft law that are still under discussion and can therefore only call on the National Assembly to adopt it in the terms that are before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u49	In the general debate, Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u50	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill transposes two European Union directives and creates a specific authorisation and sanction scheme for the regulated public service offered by the Galileo system, a radionavigation system developed by the European Union. Simply put, in the area of cybersecurity, the first directive creates additional obligations for states and companies responsible for critical infrastructure and requires some European companies to improve their ability to withstand cyber attacks. The bill entrusts the regulatory authority with the task of defining relevant security rules proportionate to the known risks, which may affect the networks and information systems concerned. As far as arms control is concerned, the second directive removes a priori category D of firearms: all firearms which must at least be classified as category C, i.e. be subject to a declaration, rather than simply registration. Until the Directive was revised, "old" weapons or their reproductions were excluded from the scope of the Directive's regulation. Noting that reproductions of old firearms can now be built using modern techniques that can improve their durability and accuracy, the directive extends its rules to them. The text adopted at first reading by the National Assembly returns to this point, after the draft has been agreed by the Joint Joint Committee, composed on an equal basis of the members of our two parliamentary assemblies. My remarks will focus on three substantive observations, which we have had the opportunity to address in previous debates. My first comment concerns the Cybersecurity Directive, which introduces a notification obligation: as of May 2018, the companies concerned will be required to notify serious cyber incidents to the national authorities. However, the concept of incident is not the subject of an operational definition, by analogy and by sector of activity. At first reading, I had pleaded for that to be clarified, using the elements taken into account to determine the seriousness of these cyber incidents. In the same vein, I had regretted that the definition of the sectors concerned by the scope of the operators bound by the cyber security obligations was not clarified as to the reasons for the definition of the scope of those activities. I had spoken out for national representation to contribute to a work of codetermination on this complex subject. I am therefore pleased that the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee aims to clarify the minimum regime for security obligations. My second comment concerns the arms directive. Two provisions were clarified during the work of the two assemblies. One relates to the possession of collectible weapons; the other concerns the creation of an offence of attempted acquisition or illegal transfer of arms, in order for France to comply with the United Nations Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms. In both cases, a favourable outcome has been found: the Minister has just recalled the classification in category D of historic weapons stricto sensu; As for the reproduction of historical weapons and neutralized weapons, they will be the subject of a regime established by decree in the Council of State. However, as I said at first reading, in our 2016 motion for a resolution on the proposal for a directive on firearms, Charles de La Verpillière and I noted the importance of the traceability of weapons and the need to improve the reliability of national files, in order to limit the risk of trafficking organised from essential parts of neutralised weapons and subsequently reconditioned to obtain new illegal weapons. We also stressed the importance of marking weapons using a method unified at European level: either the creation of a specific stamp for the European Union or the assignment of a single electronic identifier. In the end, the proposed and adopted European reform was partly missed, as these two elements were not taken into account when they were included in the European text. If we insist on this today, it is because we want the Government to seize the next opportunities to promote them. On behalf of the New Left Group, I believe that this draft should be adopted, because it transposes stricter rules on the classification of arms and the regime applicable to them, and creates a shared basis for management in Europe. But I also believe that our country has a particular responsibility to call for a new step to be taken at European level, with the aim of creating European marking, shared traceability and enhanced coordination and cooperation in this area in order to prevent, limit and suppress illegal arms trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u51	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u52	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the bill we are discussing is aimed at transposing European rules on cybersecurity, weapons and satellite navigation systems. The Group of the European People's Party broadly endorses this text, but the consensus outcome of the Joint Joint Committee's work calls for a number of comments on our part – the same ones we had made at first reading. According to an idea expressed in particular by the rapporteur, but more generally recurrent in the debates in committee and in the sitting, overtransposition would be a pitfall that should be avoided, as it would be reprehensible from the point of view of our European commitments. For us, however, this interpretation of European Union law is wrong: if the European Commission wishes not to give power to the assemblies, it uses the European regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u53	Not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u54	More importantly, the National Assembly can legislate and use the margin of manoeuvre it has been given to ensure that people's sovereignty is exercised. In this respect, overtransposition is not an excess. In the course of the discussions, we were told that our amendments were often very interesting, but "must be studied in a different context." We consider that the interpretation of the Constitutional Council's decision that amendments to a transposition bill that would not have the purpose of transposing a European directive would be unconstitutional is also exaggerated. This case law, which, in fact, is based only on an expression by means of the press, is not explicitly restrictive since it concerns only criminal matters, which was not the case with our proposals. And, for us, this decision is very risky in that it directly opposes the articles of the Constitution relating to the right of amendment of parliamentarians. It is precisely because this position is not obvious and is very problematic from the point of view of the effectiveness of the right of amendment that we have nevertheless been able to table our amendments. We regret that they could not be taken into consideration either at first reading or in the Joint Joint Committee. What was the meaning of these amendments and our proposals, which we will continue to develop on such an important and particular subject as cybersecurity? In our view, we need to expand the design of essential services to include social, economic and environmental well-being within the scope of the law in order to protect the state from cyberattacks. We all have in mind the last major attack in May 2017, which particularly affected hospitals. We must empower ourselves to protect these services. In addition, it is essential to consider the fact that non-profit organizations will be burdened with cybersecurity. We also believe that, in a democratic state based on the separation of powers, Parliament must be duly informed of the state of the cyber threat in France. We therefore proposed the creation of such a right of information. We believe it is important to empower companies and their managers by tightening sanctions so that their amount is truly deterrent and based on the reality of the companies in the sector. It is a question not only of cybersecurity, but also of credibility and equality. Finally, we would like to question the Government about the cost of cybersecurity. It is imperative, in order to protect our personal data and computer systems, to protect ourselves from cyber attacks. At the same time, it is criminal to claim that public administrations will be able to apply these provisions on a constant budget. It is therefore essential to put all means on the table to deal with this major challenge of the twenty-first century. We will contribute to this in future discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u55	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this text adapting to European Union law transposes two directives, one on the cybersecurity of certain operators essential to the functioning of the economy and the other on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. It also draws the consequences of a decision by the European Parliament and the Council on the global satellite radionavigation system from the Galileo programme. At first reading, we regretted the use of the expedited procedure and the introduction at the last minute of this bill dealing with both important and complex issues. We have also indicated our support for the substance of the text. On the one hand, we obviously share the concern to better protect our fellow citizens from ever more and more sophisticated computer attacks. Greater digital security is a major concern for our citizens and a key issue for everyone. On the other hand, we are in favour of strengthening the control of the circulation and trade of firearms, as well as intra-European cooperation on the flow of firearms. Finally, with regard to the European project of strategic importance, the Galileo satellite positioning system, which entered into service on 15 December 2016, we consider that the measures taken will enable France to ensure a high level of security for the regulated public service, or PRS, in particular in the field of security and defence. They also provide a way out of dependence on foreign satellite positioning systems that are beyond the control of European countries. The compromise text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee reinforces our position. The criminalization of attempted illegal acquisition of weapons adopted by the Senate brings French law into line with the United Nations Firearms Protocol. With regard to Article 6, on minimum rules for the protection of information networks and systems, we are satisfied that the constitutional guarantees have been strengthened. Finally, we support the compromise reached on the acquisition of Category D weapons. Jacqueline Gourault, Minister with the Minister of the Interior, certainly reassured the collectors about the imminent adoption of the collector's card – the corresponding decree will have to be published no later than September of this year. However, the proposed amendment to article 16, which seeks to ensure that historical weapons stricto sensu can be classified by the legislature as category D and that reproductions of historical weapons and neutralized weapons are classified by decree in the Council of State, will provide further assurances. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In the end, this text seems to us to be balanced. We consider its provisions to be advances for the safety of all. That is why we will be voting on the bill from the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u57	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u58	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, blocked computers, hijacked couriers, large infiltrated security sites: from individuals to large companies – Renault, Saint-Gobain, telephone operators – the victims of cyber attacks are as diverse as many and suffer certain and quantifiable financial damage ranging from a few million to a few tens of millions of euros for the largest companies, as well as material and moral damage that, for individuals, do not have prices. France is experiencing the difficulties of cyberattacks. It was one of the pioneering countries in the field of cybercrime protection systems, as early as 2008, when the White Paper on defence and national security was published, identifying attacks on information systems as one of the main threats to our defence and security, and before the establishment in 2009 of ANSSI, the national authority responsible for network and information system security. France responded to the threat by the military programming law for the years 2014 to 2019. It has, and continues to, established legal mechanisms to combat cyberattacks that are already effective in ensuring the security of information systems, including by participating in the Galileo satellite positioning system, or radionavigation, the deployment of which is due to be completed by 2020 and will then have 30 satellites, including 6 replacements, and by requiring the reporting of incidents. But today it is a matter of moving to the next level, by definitely entering into a digital strategy for Europe, because incidents and cybersecurity risks are not confined to the state borders. This is the first European initiative to be discussed here. It is therefore on purpose, and not only by coercion or obligation to transpose before 9 May 2018, that this text is submitted to us as a result of the conciliation between our colleagues in the two chambers. It is not limited to the mere consistency of French law with European law, it is not limited to the mere transposition of the provisions of the NIS Directive aimed at ensuring a high common level of network and information security in the Union or the Council decision. During the discussion, parliamentarians and the ministry tried to reconcile European imperatives with French principles. It is this desire to legislate together and to provide the Member States with a common basis to avoid isolation and, consequently, the flaw and weakness in the face of cross-border threats that we are translating into national law. Beyond this, the attacks of recent years have revived the ambition of a common approach to the neutralization of firearms. Coordinating to prevent criminals from acquiring them, reactivating them, for some, and using them is a European and, more importantly, French priority. The only priority of the exchanges was to learn from the latest events – the attacks in Paris in January 2015, or the latest rules of account that we deplore in the south of France or in the streets of Paris – and to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. We must welcome the work of our colleagues, because the text of the CMP is extremely important and balanced. It achieves the objectives set: first, by respecting the deadline of 9 May 2018 set for transposition; Then, by translating European cyber security commitments into our law; Finally, by displaying the French will to establish a firm legal framework for the circulation, sale and possession of firearms, while regulating their licit market, for example by palliating the abolition of category D by an over-hierarchization of the other categories: the over-classification of D1 weapons – simple registration – into category C, and so on. This text, because it includes necessary and sufficient arrangements to ensure and maintain all security guarantees; because it is a real step forward, by participating in the strengthening of the Galileo public service; because it aims to strengthen and raise the level of security in France, responding to European prerogatives to ensure and maintain a common high level of security; This text, because it achieves these objectives, we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u59	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u60	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have gathered to discuss and adopt the text of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union law in the field of security. During the discussion at first reading, Members of the Republican Group showed a very constructive attitude, and their vigilance has always been marked by good will. The first two texts of this European package did not raise any particular difficulties, which, however, does not remove their need. The Directive on the security of networks and information systems in the Union, known as the NIS Directive, seems absolutely essential in the context of strengthening cybersecurity in our country. The ANSSI, at whose headquarters I was on Monday morning with fellow Members of Parliament, is ready and working with all relevant actors as well as ENISA – the European Information Systems Security Agency – to implement in practice all the provisions of the directive which places the European Union at the forefront in the fight for the strengthening of cybersecurity. We can only welcome the timely transposition of this essential directive. The directive on the satellite radionavigation system from the Galileo programme calls for no other comment than a positive and benevolent assessment. We fully agree with that decision. On the other hand, the third directive, which we have to transpose in order to comply with the deadlines, on the control of the acquisition and possession of firearms, has caused more turmoil within the European institutions, first and foremost the European Parliament, of which I was a member when the discussion on this subject began. Concerns, sometimes strong misunderstandings have emerged throughout the European and then French parliamentary process, mainly among collectors. After appearing before the European Parliament some time ago, they persisted in their desire to raise awareness and mobilize us. They were concerned about the continuing suspicion they felt about the transport of collectible equipment and vehicles, about the possession of their collectible weapons, as a result of certain provisions of the Directive, even though recital 17 of the Directive recognises that "Member States should be able to decide to grant approved museums and collectors permission to acquire and hold firearms, essential parts and category A ammunition if necessary for historical, cultural, scientific, technical, educational or heritage purposes [...]". We know that many collectors are the living memory of our history and that they are committed to reviving important events in our glorious history. They are fully integrated and actively participate in the duty of memory. Their concerns and emotions should therefore be addressed, while they perceived as unfair the elimination of certain category D weapons and the tightening of the regime of acquisition, transport and detention. However, our discussion at first reading gave rise to a very interesting development, when you announced to the national representative, Madam Minister, that the long-awaited implementing order on the terms and conditions for issuing the weapons collector card would be published quickly, well before the date of entry into force of the directive. Subsequently, the discussion in CMP resulted in a very balanced compromise, which you yourself described as a skill, according to which collectible weapons are retained in category D. A decree in the Council of State will provide further details. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This compromise is interesting. It fully satisfies the gun collectors and is in line with the aspirations of the Republicans group expressed during the first-reading discussion and relayed by our fellow senators. In view of this excellent compromise work carried out on a very specific point of the CMP Directive, our group will be happy to vote on a text that transposes important European decisions in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u61	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u62	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are going to adopt concerns the transposition of two European directives and draws the consequences of a decision by the European Parliament and the Council. It brings together topics as diverse as cybersecurity, the possession of civilian firearms or the Galileo satellite radio navigation system. First of all, I would like to welcome the constructive work that has been carried out at all stages of the discussion of this text: in the Senate, first, where the work of the rapporteur has improved the original text on many points; then in the Assembly, where we were able to respond in particular to a risk of unconstitutionality raised by the Senate; Finally, in the Joint Committee, during which we reached an agreement, by changing the text on a few points. As I mentioned in the public debate on 31 January last year, the main interest of this text lies in its European dimension. On the subject of cybersecurity, in particular, we will only be able to respond to computer attacks if we provide all European states with adequate instruments and protections. The so-called "NIS" directive, which has been transposed here, is therefore a necessary step in building common security. It aims to strengthen the level of cybersecurity applicable to strategic economic activities and to increase coordination between Member States in the event of transnational incidents. By not establishing in the law a limited list of the sectors concerned by these provisions, the legislator intends to leave a freedom to the Government for the qualification of operators of essential services. We believe that this freedom is absolutely necessary in order to allow a rapid change in the context and in the new threats that may arise. Let us remember that this flexibility was desired by the ANSSI. The transposition of this European Directive will also strengthen the national capacities of the Member States through all the measures envisaged: a national authority, a national strategy and collaboration with other States and a centre for responding to incidents. Cyber defence and cyber security are indeed two areas in which European cooperation and mutual assistance are imperative, particularly for our economic and industrial development. The other directive we are transposing is on the acquisition and possession of civilian firearms. We all understand the need to better control the flow of weapons, and hence their sale, in the context we know. We welcome the compromise reached during the CMP, which makes it possible to classify historical weapons stricto sensu as category D, while reproductions and neutralized weapons will be classified by decree in the Council of State. The tightening of the regime for the acquisition and possession of semi-automatic weapons, such as the introduction of administrative controls for Class C arms brokers, are measures that enhance the overall security surrounding firearms. In addition, we welcome the possibility of arms dealers and brokers who may refuse to enter into transactions if a situation appears to them to be suspect in terms of their nature or scale. Finally, with regard to the regulated public service Galileo – a subject of great importance as well – France had to comply with a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council, in order to allow access to certain Galileo services for the development of sensitive geolocation applications and devices. We all know that the Galileo system is vital for Europe, and therefore for France, because its strategic interest is linked to the question of the sovereignty of our common area. Between the United States and Russia, China and India, Europe needed a satellite radio navigation tool, which is done with Galileo, which has been in operation since the end of 2016. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] These two directives and this decision by the Commission and the European Parliament seem to us to be very much in the interests of the general interest and of greater cooperation between the Member States, which we think is particularly commendable. They respond to an immediate need and critical issues for our shared space. These are the reasons why the MODEM and related groups welcome the imminent passage of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u63	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u64	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we can welcome the outcome of the Joint Joint Committee which met last week, for at least three reasons. Firstly, we will draw the consequences in French law from the European Council legislation on Galileo and from two directives which were to be transposed before May and September. France, which has been a good translator for some years, will remain so. Following work with my colleague Alice Thourot of the Republic Group on the move, we concluded that all attention should be paid to the quality of transposition. The Prime Minister took a circular shortly after his appointment on 26 July and appointed a delegation to the Inspectorate General to work on it. Let us continue to ensure the quality of the transposition! The second reason for satisfaction is, of course, the transposition of provisions aimed at ensuring better security of our information networks, in particular against all the strategic economic attacks that can be carried out against our country. If this is certainly positive, I am confident that the legislator will have to come back to it very soon, because the level of danger and attacks that we face is constantly increasing. This first step will require more. The last directive, which has been very busy with us, concerns the problem of arms. I am elected from a department where there are many military commemorations. I had worked, a few years ago, on a trans-party mission, with Bruno Le Roux and other colleagues, to adapt legislation that dates from before the Second World War – at the time the fear was that European invaders would arrive. Our law was dated. We changed it by following a course of action: hitting thugs and saving legal weapon users, hunters, collectors and shooters. There have been many fears about this directive. Madam Minister, I welcome your commitment, because it was thanks to the one you took on the collector's card that the situation came to light. However, I would like to draw your attention respectfully to the fact that there is still concern about the conditions for the movement of collecting weapons. It appears that the current text is intended solely for commemorations; However, daily life cannot be summed up in this. It may be necessary to ensure that the drafting of the decree is broad enough to avoid boredom to our weapons collectors. For all these reasons, Members of the UDI-Agir Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u65	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u66	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u67	The next item is the second reading of the draft law, as amended by the Senate, allowing for the proper application of the European asylum system (No. 601, 637).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u68	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u69	Madam President, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, I must first convey to you the apologies of the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, who regrets that he cannot be there. He instructed me to inform you of his readiness to exchange with you on all issues related to the Government's asylum and immigration policy. He will meet very quickly with all the political groups of this assembly to present the general economy of the bill on the subject which is expected to be adopted in the Council of Ministers next week. On the initiative of Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann and several members of the UDI-Agir Group, the National Assembly considered and adopted, on 7 December 2017, the proposal for a law enabling the proper application of the European asylum system, i.e. the legal framework for the application of the European Regulation of 26 June 2013, the Dublin Regulation. After first reading by the Senate on January 25, when senators made several amendments to the bill, you are again asked to take a decision on this bill. First of all, I would like to point out that this legislative initiative was particularly timely in the eyes of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u70	Thank you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u71	... while several court decisions have called into question the proper application of the mechanisms for organising the distribution of asylum applications between countries of the European Union. The issue is all the more important because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, while asylum applications are on the decline across Europe, France is facing strong growth with 100,000 applications in 2017, an increase of 17%, after 6% in 2016 and 23% in 2015. This application for asylum is first of all the case of nationalities whose need for protection is not very high, as is the case with nationals of Albania or some French-speaking African countries. But it is also the rebound flows, that is, those who have already applied for asylum in another European country and come to try their luck in Hexagon, which fuel this continuous increase in demand. Until recently, these rebound flows were very small – in 2016, they accounted for only 11% of asylum applications – but in recent months the situation has changed. In 2017, 41,500 applications registered in France, or about 36% of the total, came from persons covered by the Dublin Regulation. In Île-de-France and Hauts-de-France, the proportion reached 75%. Ladies and gentlemen, this significant increase in the demand for asylum has led the current Government to substantially develop our accommodation capacity. I would like to recall that the budgetary resources allocated to the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" mission have been increased by 26% under the 2018 Finance Act: thus, we will increase the capacity of the national reception system to 88,000 places by 2019, which will increase by almost 8,000 places in the space of two years. Despite these efforts, our hosting system remains on the brink of embolism. Can we then allow a situation in which thousands of people, whose care is the responsibility of other States, threaten the balance of our entire system? Everyone measures that all this is not viable. With a view to remedying these difficulties, the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, asked the prefects to strictly apply the Dublin Regulation by transferring people to the Member State responsible for processing their asylum applications – with real results since in 2017, the number of Dublin transfers doubled compared to 2016, which has allowed us in some territories to ease our accommodation and asylum arrangements. In recent months, however, the significant progress we have achieved through a strong involvement of the administration has been undermined by a number of court decisions. First of all, by its decision of 15 March 2017, the Court of Justice of the European Union, CJEU, invited the Member States of the Union to define in their national law the objective criteria for the substantial risk of an alien's escape in Dublin proceedings, and therefore the possibility of detention. On the basis of this judgment of the CJEU, the Court of Cassation stressed on 27 September that if our domestic law did define the risk of escape, it must, in order to allow the detention of persons under Dublin procedure, specify what the significant risk of escape was. Finally, in its decision of 19 July 2017, the Court of First Instance of the Council of State stated that French law did not allow the prefect to detain an alien subject to the Dublin Regulation during the determination phase of the State responsible for his asylum application. The practical effect of these various court decisions is to prohibit the detention of persons under the Dublin procedure. New legislation was therefore needed because without detention, our removal policy cannot be effective. That is why the bill tabled by the UDI-Agir Group seemed to us to be extremely useful and urgent. In response to the decisions of the Court of Justice and the Court of Cassation, Article 1 of the proposed law specifies the conditions under which an alien who is the subject of a transfer decision or application for the purpose of taking over or taking over responsibility under the Dublin Regulation may be detained. Such placement may be decided only to prevent a significant risk of leakage, on the basis of an individual assessment taking into account the vulnerability of the person concerned, and only to the extent that the detention is proportionate and that the house arrest cannot be effectively applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u72	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u73	To this end, the text defines what constitutes a significant risk of flight: for example, the fact that in another Member State the alien has already evaded the application of the Dublin Regulation, has already been rejected from his application for asylum or has failed to comply with a previous expulsion measure. In a very timely manner, at first reading, you wanted to clarify certain aspects of the definition of the significant risk of flight: for example, if the fact that an alien conceals elements of his or her identity may characterize the risk of flight, you added that the circumstance that the alien cannot justify possession of valid identity or travel documents cannot alone be sufficient to establish such concealment. Similarly, you stated that at the time of its submission to the administrative authority for the registration of a first asylum application in France, the foreigner cannot be regarded as presenting a significant risk of flight. In practical terms, the aim is to prohibit the administrative detention of an alien who presents himself or herself in good faith at the one-stop shop for asylum seekers to register his or her application.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u74	It's an amendment from the Chair of the Law Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u75	This provision is essential in order to understand the balance of the text: if it permits, in order to counter the flight of the persons concerned, their detention from the stage of determination of the responsible State, it is not intended to concern the asylum-seeker in good faith. On the contrary, the application of this provision applies only to foreigners arrested on public roads who fall within the scope of the Dublin procedure: a frequent case, for example, near the French-Italian border where many persons under this procedure are arrested when they attempt to cross the border illegally. Without applying for asylum in France, these persons may nevertheless be transferred to Dublin, which is why these provisions are useful. I would like to point out that the Senate has in no way called into question these amendments introduced by your House, thus preserving the great balance of the text that you have adopted. However, the Senate majority wanted to introduce several additional amendments. Without asking for or encouraging the addition of these new provisions – I would like to make it clear – the Government, because it understands the concerns that motivate them, has chosen not to oppose them, even if some of them appear to be either remote from the purpose of the bill or to be relatively effective. Among the supplements that the Senate has provided, one seems very useful, if not necessary. This is Article 3, which seeks to draw the consequences of the decision on the priority issue of constitutionality, QPC, of 30 November 2017, by which the Constitutional Council declared as of 30 June 2018 the provisions of the Code of Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the right of asylum, CESEDA, under which the house arrest of foreigners who have been sentenced to the penalty of prohibition of French territory, but whose expulsion is impossible, was not limited in time. I consider this to be a positive addition: although this article may seem far removed from the purpose of the bill, it allows us to deal with the risk of a legal and operational vacuum that the Constitutional Council's decision will leave from 30 June 2018, and to take into account few but very significant cases of public order. Indeed, the date of June 30 is fast approaching, and the chances for the Asylum and Immigration Bill to be finally passed before that date are small. The other measures introduced by the Senate seemed to us to have only a limited impact. Senators, who are strongly committed to having the bill address this issue, have wished to clarify in section 1 that the refusal to submit to fingerprints or the voluntary alteration of fingerprints to prevent their registration is another criterion for detention. But such a provision, as we said in the Senate, is inoperative: without fingerprinting on Eurodac, the Dublin procedure will be impossible, and a Dublin transfer will not be possible. The Senate also wished to extend from four to six days the period of validity of the orders made by the judges of freedoms and detention and authorizing house visits to aliens under house arrest, which are intended to ensure the presence of the alien at his place of detention and to take him, if necessary, to his administrative appointments. Such a provision has, you will agree, a limited scope. Finally, by an amendment to Article 2 of the text, senators proposed to reduce to seven days, as against the current 15 days, the time limit within which a Dublin transfer decision may be challenged before the administrative judge. The Senate has done so on the grounds that such a proposal is included in the draft recast of the Dublin Regulation, presented by the European Commission and under discussion, and in consistency with a previous vote of the High Assembly, which took place in 2015 during the debate on the draft law on asylum reform. It should be noted that such a reduction would apply only to persons not subject to house arrest or detention, since for those covered by such measures the time limit is 48 hours. However, in 2017, 70% of the persons subject to a Dublin transfer order were under house arrest or in detention. The proportion of people who are not the subject of any measure – who are the only ones affected by this supplementary provision introduced in the Senate – is a minority. It will even be more and more so in the future, since the circular of 20 November 2017 asks the prefects to ensure the proper implementation of the appropriate binding measures. Thus, this provision, although sensitive, would in practice have only a limited effect. In these circumstances, the Government would like the text, as drafted after first reading in the Senate, to be adopted in conformity by your assembly at this second reading. Indeed, in the absence of a proper vote, its entry into force will be delayed by several more months, while the resumption of Dublin transfers depends on it! In the context of the high migratory pressure to which our country is subjected, we cannot, I believe, afford such deadlines. That is why the Government invites you to vote on this text, in order to respond to the emergencies we face. (Applause from the REM and MODEM groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u76	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u77	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, this bill invites us to answer a very specific question. The right to asylum in France is governed by treaty and legislative provisions. When a person comes to our country and requests this right, his or her application shall be examined in the light of these provisions. If this test results in a refusal, what should be the consequence? If you think that in this case, the best thing is that this person keeps himself irregularly in the national territory, then of course we must not vote for this bill! For my part, my conviction is that from the moment that asylum was refused to that person because it did not meet the necessary conditions, and in the event that this refusal was confirmed by the courts, then the Government must cause his expulsion. But you know that often people at risk of being rejected disappear into nature. It is therefore useful for our administration to be able, on the basis of legislation, either to assign them to residence, to ensure their location, or – in more limited cases – to detain them. Why are we here today? For two reasons. The first is that unlike neighbouring countries, we are experiencing an increase in the number of asylum applications – 100,000 more last year. Why the increase? Yet we are not the first country of arrival for asylum seekers! In fact, it is due to the fact that our neighbours, particularly Germany and Italy, have just processed a large number of asylum applications and rejected many of them. A number of rejected candidates then came to France. I have heard a lot of criticism of the so-called Dublin III European regulation, but on this point I fully agree with France's position, expressed by the Government in a plan presented on 12 July and confirmed by a speech by the President of the Republic on 27 July: the Dublin III regulation is not ideal, so we must try to negotiate a new agreement. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know the position of a number of governments in Eastern Europe: negotiating a new agreement will be very difficult! In the meantime, we must apply Dublin III. Let me remind you that the European regulation is based on a relative balance. Its aim is to prevent Member States from referring asylum seekers to themselves as ping-pong balls: one country must therefore be designated for each of them to examine its asylum application. In return, if this country, doing its job properly, refuses it asylum, then the asylum seeker cannot try his luck with the other countries of the Union – otherwise, the European Union would make no sense! This is all the more necessary because we are very much in demand. The second reason is a legal urgency. In March 2017, the Court of Justice of the European Union took a position on the Dublin III Regulation – France has nothing to do with it: it was a case involving the Czech Republic. We have all learned during our studies that a European regulation is of immediate application. In this case, the Court of Justice has decided otherwise: in order for a State to be able, as permitted by the Regulation, to detain an asylum-seeker who presents a "significant risk of flight", it is first necessary for the national legislature to define the concept of "significant risk of flight". The Court of Cassation logically concluded last September that asylum seekers with a significant risk of flight to a transfer under the Dublin III regulation – and this is happy for our rule of law – can no longer be detained, simply because the legislator did not do his job. A week ago, on 7 February, the Court of Cassation found that "the French legislator did not... define the objective criteria for the risk of flight justifying such an administrative detention". It effectively cancels all administrative detentions under the Dublin III Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u78	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u79	It is therefore of general interest to re-establish French law on this point: it is urgent, we are close to the week! I stress that it is only a matter of restoring the possibilities offered by the law before the ECJ's judgment in March 2017. This bill is simply intended to restore the prerogatives that the administration had before March. In addition, last July, part of our administration considered that detention could be decided from the beginning of the readmission procedure to the State where the alien in question was to be reoriented. The Council of State has taken the view that European law allows us to do so, provided that it is transposed. Here again, we are in a case of sub-transposition. It is quite rare: while European law allows us to use certain legal tools, the legislator has not decided to transpose them into French law! These are the reasons behind this bill. It is not, of course, intended to introduce systematic detention, nor to call into question the guarantees provided for by European law: house arrest and the protection of vulnerable persons take precedence. However, it allows the administration to detain foreigners in a number of situations. To do so, the individual must present a "significant risk of leakage", determined "on the basis of an individual assessment". It is not a question of placing entire categories of persons in detention, but of examining each individual's situation individually. Another cumulative condition is that the detention must be proportionate and that the house arrest cannot be effectively applied. Moreover, in order to establish the significant risk of leakage, the alien must be in one of the twelve situations referred to in Article 1. As I said in committee, and I repeat, this text represents progress on the rights of asylum seekers. The criteria for detention are now clear. As the minister has done, I salute the Senate for its correction – especially its rapporteur, who has heard me. I have allowed myself to tell him, with the exception of the respect I owe to the High Assembly, how fundamental it seemed to us, because we were balanced, the amendments adopted by the National Assembly, in particular at the initiative of the chairman of our Committee on Laws. In fact, senators did not question the text of the National Assembly. On the other hand, he made some additions. Thus, of the twelve criteria I mentioned earlier, one comes from the Senate. It is a question of being able to detain a person who has lied about his geographical path. I have learned that this addition disturbs some of you; I'm not sure they're right. The purpose of this text is not to infringe on the right to asylum of persons who have lied on their journeys or their families, because they have been pressured or because they are taken on by networks. The right to asylum does not change: it is governed by the same regulatory, legislative and treaty instruments as before. According to the addition of the Senate, however, France will be able to ensure, by placing it in detention, the presence of a person to whom asylum has been refused – either by an administrative decision or, in the event of an appeal, by a court decision – in order to draw the consequences of the rejection of his application. We are far from certain fears that have been expressed. A second contribution from the Senate relates to home visits, a procedure that does not concern administrative detention, but house arrest. How, in fact, can we verify that a summons is well respected? The judge of liberty and detention should be asked whether he or she allows the police to verify that the person concerned is in compliance with his or her obligations. In the present state of the law, this order of the judge must be enforced within four days. However, our honourable senators have considered – and I have a little remorse for not having identified the difficulty myself – that such a delay was too short, especially where the police services are overburdened. That is why they have adopted a provision to extend it. This does not in any way affect a right: it is simply a matter of allowing these orders, made by a judge, to be enforced within six days, rather than four days. The Senate has also reduced the time to challenge a transfer decision before the administrative judge from fifteen to seven days. On this point, I shall speak with the same freedom as before the committee: I myself did not propose this amendment because I do not consider it appropriate. That being said, one thing must be clear: if we do not adopt this text by a proper vote, then a joint committee will have to be convened, which means that each assembly will take one step towards the other. Given the importance, in the public interest, of this text coming into force as soon as possible, it does not seem to me to be excessive to accept it in its version of the Senate. That would enable the Government to deal with the current situation. Finally, the Senate has added an article – this is Article 3 – to respond to a decision taken by the Constitutional Council on a priority issue of constitutionality. The latter asked the legislator to remove, before 30 June next, the provisions allowing for house arrest without limitation of duration. The Senate's proposal, which does not affect me, is to limit the validity of a subpoena to five years, if any, renewable on the basis of justification. To be frank, again, it does not seem shocking to me to make this bill the way to respond to the partial censorship decided by the Constitutional Council, even if it is not the original purpose of the text. It will not have escaped you, ladies and gentlemen, that on this difficult subject a number of groups are demagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u80	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u81	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] That the majority in the National Assembly and the majority in the Senate agree on this text of general interest, that it be voted in conformity, would be a beautiful symbol. This would give the Government the means to work as best as possible for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u83	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u84	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, Chairperson of the Committee, Rapporteur, "I know a few things to be true. I do not know where I am going, where I have come from is disappearing, I am unwelcome and my beauty is not beauty here. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u85	What you're doing is contrary to the rules! The language of the Republic is French, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u86	"I don't know where I'm going. Where I come from is disappearing. I'm not welcome and my beauty isn't beautiful here. My body burns shame not to belong, my body languishes. I am the sin of memory and the absence of memory. I'm looking at the news and my mouth becomes a bowl full of blood. The lines, the shapes, the people behind the offices, the phone cards, the immigration officers, the eyes on the street, the cold that takes place in my bones, the English classes in the evening, the distance that separates me from the house. » Perhaps it is essential to start this intervention with the words of a person who knows migration as a personal, intimate reality, who knows the emotional costs and who can measure the scale of the sacrifices. It is certainly important, before talking about this text, which, from our point of view, is another stone to the grim building of Dublin regulations, before going into the details of the measures to restrict fundamental freedoms organised at European level and linked up to the smallest workings at national level, to read aloud, in front of this assembly made up of humanist but firm people, these few verses of the British poet Warsan Shire. This bill is only the preamble to the reform of the law of foreigners and foreigners that our Assembly will shortly consider. In our view, it takes an active part in dismantling the only fundamental right granted exclusively to foreigners: the right to asylum. We say it without demagogy, with seriousness and seriousness. This dismantling of asylum is, in our view, an unrealistic and unreasonable ideological posture, which is not the result of a crisis of migrants and migrants, of a crisis of migration, because the latter have always, historically, proceeded in successive or simultaneous waves, generating in societies of departure and arrival of necessary adaptations. This is in fact a crisis in the reception of Europe which organises the free movement of goods and labour forces, but closes the horizon to human beings. MP Warsmann, using classical rhetoric, blames a third-party institution for not having to take on his political choices. The proposal for a law is supposed to allow "a good application of the European asylum system", but it actually goes beyond its recommendations. Because his real objective, as was that of the circular of 20 November 2017 of the Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, and as it will be that of the future bill on asylum and immigration, is systematic confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u87	Wrong! Lie! Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u88	And we regret it. It is the policy of fear, it is the policy of constant harassment, it is the dehumanizing strategy of exhaustion of people. Thus, Mr rapporteur, you list, in Article 1, all cases where the risk of flight, a concept which the Court of Cassation has asked for to be specified, justifies the confinement of so-called "dublinated" persons. However, it embraces so many situations that any dubious person may be considered to be at risk of fleeing. However, we are talking about people, most of whom have not been considered on the merits. This bill therefore aims to generalize the detention of asylum seekers for the sole reason that they have not applied in the right country. These are people who have fled their country for a variety of reasons, often complex, and who cannot be reduced to a blind and binary distribution among those who would be good political refugees, thus being destined to be welcomed with dignity and to benefit from the right of asylum, and then the others, all the others, who would not be entitled to it. As if exile, which is, whatever the causes, always suffering, both for those who leave and for those whom they leave, could constitute, according to certain criteria, a vocation! The inhumanity of the logic behind this text should lead to a failure to vote. Unfortunately, this does not seem sufficient to convince the parliamentary and governmental majority, who defended it and adopted it at first reading, and is about to do so again today – certainly by tabling some amendments and expressing some reticence here and there. I must add that this so-called firm policy is not only inhuman but also counterproductive. Only 6% of the Dublin procedures are completed. Last year, while the Government mobilized the necessary human and financial resources to triple the number of proceedings, the removal rate remained substantially the same as the previous year: 5.8 per cent, compared with 5 per cent in 2016. So we have to ask the question: do we want to lock men, women and children in order to facilitate a transfer that will never take place? At what cost? And for what results? It is not the people affected by these unfair and ill-conceived regulations that must be attacked, but the Dublin regulation – and some of the Members of the majority, I feel, I know, agree on this point. This is based on the assumption that the conditions for examining asylum applications are equivalent in different parts of the Schengen area. This is simply not true! Do you really want to transfer people to Greece, a country where cases of torture and ill-treatment have been denounced by international associations and bodies, and which has been condemned nine times by the European Court of Human Rights because of the poor conditions of detention there? Or in Hungary, a country to which the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees rightly calls for the suspension of all removals? Or in Italy, where many systemic shortcomings persist and where reception centres for asylum seekers and asylum seekers are sorely lacking in places? The Government is constantly using the lexicon of European solidarity: the Dublin Regulation is the perfect contradiction of this principle. And with this contradiction, we play with people's lives. Transfers are not made due to material errors, poor records, annulment of the procedure by the administrative judges, decisions of the Minister of the Interior or prefects not to execute them. The strike currently under way by the staff of the National Court of Asylum reminds those who doubted the reality of the very concrete problems faced by those responsible for guaranteeing the right to asylum. And the resources committed by the current government in the fall finance bill are far from sufficient to meet these challenges. "For several years, [the CNDA] has been locked in an accounting logic of the asylum which gives priority to shortening the time limits for judgment on the quality of the examination of applications and decisions rendered," writes the trade union organisations in a press release. Sébastien Brisard, rapporteur at the CNDA and general secretary of the Union indépendant des personnels du Conseil d'État, explains to the newspaper Libération: "There are some files which are considered not to present all the serious elements of an asylum application. They then go through an order system, that is, a decision that is made by a judge without hearing the applicant. However, regrets the union leader, the proportion of orders has doubled in three years: "We are in a logic of meeting deadlines, imposed by the legislator in 2015. So there's a triage done by the magistrates, and they don't have the material time, even if they do their best, given the amount of files, to proceed to an end processing. " The organizations that called for the strike, renewed yesterday, also evoke an "increasing workload" and "overcrowded hearings". Sébastien Brisard adds: "In one day's hearing, thirteen cases are processed; And we don't listen to a person the same way in the morning and at nineteen, after hearing twelve other files. This time of listening is not respected, and the files are increasingly complicated, with finer problems to analyze. » It is therefore the Dublin regulations that must be called into question. At European level, we have interlocutors, partners, with whom our country could engage in a balance of forces on this subject. This is the case, for example, of Italy, where I visited as a member of the Bureau of the Committee on European Affairs, and where we visited reception centres. It is a completely different policy that needs to be built, an asylum policy that would not collapse with the first small increase in the number of applications. Without such a policy, the right of asylum would remain for our countries only a tale that is lurked with the illusion of redressing the wrongs and atrocities committed in the past; and the 1946 Constitution, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1951 Geneva Convention, all these texts which, wishing to learn the lessons of the Second World War, intended to engrave the right of refugees in marble, would be meaningless. At the beginning of the 21st century, when we are experiencing the first major crisis in the policy of welcoming Europe since 1945, a crisis largely due to the conflicts in the Middle East and a number of East African countries, this legacy of humanity and solidarity runs the risk of being denied from this first law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] That is why I call on you, on behalf of La France insoubted, to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u89	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u90	The objective is precisely that France respects its international commitments. The Geneva Convention does not imply granting the right of asylum to everyone; Only persons who meet certain conditions, because they are threatened in their country of origin, are eligible for refugee status. First of all, the finance law that we voted for reflects a historic effort in terms of the resources allocated to the CNDA: fifty-one posts created. At the same time, OFPRA's workforce has doubled since 2014. Indeed, one of the most negative aspects of the current situation is that people who have applied for asylum on French territory must wait for the answer for months. And in the meantime, they have no right to work, their children are out of school, they remain unaware of what the next day will be. Our first objective must therefore be to allow the person concerned to know much more quickly whether or not he has the right to asylum. Then, in my opening speech, I said that we must be in reality. France's honour is to give, in accordance with the Geneva Convention, the right of asylum to all those who fall under it. But to allow those who do not belong to it to remain in our territory, thus becoming foreigners in an irregular situation, is it to his honour? I don't believe it. We therefore need a balanced system. Every time we have to say "yes", we have to say it, and no doubt offer better support, but if not, when applicants do not meet the conditions, when they are not threatened in their country of origin, our fellow citizens are waiting for them to be told: "Your future is not France. The text before you, ladies and gentlemen, is a balanced text. I call on you to reject the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u91	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u92	I will be very brief as I will speak in a few minutes during the general discussion. Our group, Mrs Obono, will not vote in favour of the motion for a preliminary rejection which you have defended because, as the rapporteur has clearly demonstrated, it is necessary to move forward. The honourable senators, for their part, have shown wisdom, and in the general interest, it is time to enter into the discussion and vote on this bill. On an extremely difficult and complex subject, we must finally provide good answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u93	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u94	I would like to take this opportunity to reply to the rapporteur. In my speech, I took up the comments made by members of the CNDA precisely because they deal directly with the issues and, as such, are confronted with the daily realities of asylum. However, they insist that the acceleration of procedures, under the conditions in which they work, takes place at the expense of careful scrutiny. Their comments are confirmed by associations. One of them, the Shams association, which we met during the hearings we conducted on this subject, is concerned with the reception of LGBT migrants from the Middle East. She explained to us how difficult the situation of the people she is helping – for many reasons, including some relating to their identification, in their country of origin and even more so in France, when applying for asylum. The speed of the procedure is therefore not a good argument, because it runs counter to the intention put forward in this text, although I do not doubt that it is legitimate and sincere. And then we cannot ignore the fact that senators have hardened the original text: the measures that they have added and that the National Assembly is being asked to vote are even more restrictive. No, I repeat, we don't do demagogy. We take all the interventions seriously, without doubting the general intention, but the reality, Mr Warsmann, is that the Dublin agreements are not being implemented, neither in France nor elsewhere, because we do not have the capacity to do so. To assume this principle of reality is to call into question the Dublin agreements. However, we have room for manoeuvre to do so. The President of the Republic made a very strong speech on Europe; It could do the same with regard to asylum. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u95	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u96	I will also be brief because, during the general discussion, I will have the opportunity to elaborate on my group's arguments on the whole bill. First of all, contrary to what Mr Bournazel has said, we are still in agreement to move forward, but this is a step backwards, a step backwards from the great principles that have made our country's honour, particularly with regard to respect for the right to asylum and more generally for human rights. Secondly, I note that once again – because this majority is not the first to adopt this very bad habit, which has been affecting our country for several years – we will legislate on an issue that affects asylum and immigration with the eye riveted on the polls,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u97	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u98	... by flattering the most regressive aspects of opinion and turning its back on the principles that have made our country great. That is why we will vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u99	The next speaker is Mr Sacha Houlié, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u100	I will remind you of some of the terms of the debate. First of all, we are not looking at the Dublin Regulation here. We do not have the competence and, in any case, a much greater renovation must be carried out in the footsteps of the President of the Republic, who has called on European countries to take over more migrants. This concerns not only France, but all the members of the Union – in particular the Eastern countries, which have a great deal of responsibility for the dysfunctions that the system is experiencing today. I would also point out that we are closing a legal vacuum created by the Court of Justice of the European Union, whose national courts have only applied the decision: in the absence of a legal definition of the significant risk of flight, it is not possible to detain persons who may be transferred. The majority had worked on several amendments at first reading – I am thinking of the provisions relating to falsification of the migration route, lengthening of home visits or delays in appeals – on which the Senate decided to return. But we refuse to be trapped politically by a senatorial majority that ultimately requires unconditional confinement. We also refuse to be taken hostage by all those who do not want the application of the law in France. We are neither less human nor less affected nor less sensitive than others, but we do not accept the political traps of the teachers, whether they come from the right or the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u101	Or La République en marche?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u102	This bill allows us to take date: our motivations will come to light in the Asylum and Immigration Bill, at which time we will come back with amendments on these provisions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] At this stage, we believe that European and French law must apply for the good of all, for the good of the French, and this is not called "governing to opinion".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u103	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u104	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the Republicans Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. We believe that the proposal for a law by our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann, even if it is incomplete and does not in itself exhaust the European asylum system, is in the right direction. In any case, it has the merit, not only to exist, but to provide clarifications, clarifications on the "dublinate" regime. Our group is in favour of the mechanism proposed in the text. It is rather from within the parliamentary majority that doubts, states of soul and questions arise. For us, we agree with the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u106	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u107	Migration issues always lead to an approach that seems too emotional to me. As legislators, we must keep the necessary distance and keep us from too sensitive approaches, which are expressed to the right or to the left. We are dealing with a very narrow subject, a subject of law, which is imposed on us, if we are to fulfil our European commitments, and MODEM wants that to be the case. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, not to confuse the speakers. We are not discussing the migration policy or the asylum that the country wishes to acquire. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Our group will therefore not vote on the motion, and will clarify its position on the bill during the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u108	In the general debate, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u109	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the bill presented by Mr Warsmann, I would like to speak about a situation which, as a resident of the 18th arrondissement and Member of Parliament for the 18th constituency, I have known for many years. Before addressing these issues, it is good to recall certain principles. The first is the principle of dignity, the dignity of men, women, children fleeing war, hunger, deplorable living conditions or extremely disturbing climatic conditions. Migration is the challenge of the 21st century. It is a phenomenon of magnitude that has quickly surpassed public policies at national or European level. We must find appropriate solutions, at international, European, national and of course local level. Under this principle of dignity, migrants, regardless of the reason for their arrival and whether they are destined to stay at home or to be returned to their country of origin, must, while in France, be welcomed with dignity. This means that they must have a roof, a place to sit, rest, eat, drink and work with associations to establish their records. I have long been in favour of humanitarian reception centres worthy of this name, respectful of our republican tradition. Urgent action must be taken in the face of dramatic situations. The second principle is that it is necessary to ensure the tranquillity of the residents who, in Paris, in the Chapelle district, in Calais or in the Alpes-Maritimes, also live in difficult conditions in terms of safety, tranquility or hygiene. What do these people want? Find peace and quiet. But they also want to deal structurally with chaotic situations. The third principle is firmness, particularly with regard to the networks of smugglers, who make money on human misery, on the distress of men, women and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u110	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u111	We need to answer urgent questions. We also have a duty to work at European level to harmonise our legislation, particularly on the right to asylum. We have another duty: to have the courage and the lucidity to say that the current situation is nothing compared to the challenge that awaits us in the coming years or decades. This challenge must therefore be addressed structurally by dealing first with those who are destined to remain in our territory and who will benefit from the right of asylum. What awaits them is integration. What is our policy in this area? Today, in France, do we ask the right questions? Are we up to this challenge in terms of language or acceptance of certain republican principles: freedom, equality and fraternity, but also secularism? How to transmit these values? How can we transmit our language and ensure that those people who have fled their country have a new destiny and a brighter future? Integration is an essential issue. We can't evacuate her with a word, because she's going to come back to the heart of our public policies. Another structural issue is cooperation and development policy. For those who will be returned to their country of origin, solutions will have to be found, failing which these people will return and the problems will arise again. Cooperation and development policy requires a new strategy on the part of both France and Europe. This means looking for investments with private partners to allow access here to water, there to sustainable food, there to school, to training, to enable people to develop themselves with our support. To disinterest themselves in their fate is to be disinterested in ours and that of humanity. Maybe you think I've moved away from Mr. Warsmann's proposal. In my view, if we do not have a few principles and a somewhat structural view of these issues, we can make all the decisions, we can vote on all the proposals or all the bills, the problems will persist or worsen in the years or decades to come. Our excellent colleague Mr Warsmann's proposal aims to improve the application of the European asylum system, which is essential. This is a major issue and a necessity for action. A legal vacuum must be filled and the consequences drawn from the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the French courts, which weakened the application of the Dublin Regulation and which were confirmed last week by a judgment of the Court of Cassation. Is this not the sign that it is urgent for the public authorities to finally remedy this situation? The aim is to combine, with respect for fundamental freedoms and European texts, the procedure for detention, which is indispensable from an operational point of view, and the procedure for determining the responsible State, which is a central element of European asylum law. As amended at first reading, the draft law now includes four articles, respectively, which aim to secure the administrative detention of aliens under the Dublin Regulation, to exclude such detention in conjunction with the registration of an asylum application, but to allow it, however, before notification of a transfer decision, and finally to secure the house arrest of aliens who are subject to a judicial ban on the territory. Our honourable senators have not distorted the spirit of the text. On the contrary, they have been faithful to its raison d'être, which is to fill the gaps in our law. They wanted to enable the proper application of procedures to enable our asylum system to meet European requirements with full responsibility and solidarity, respect for fundamental freedoms and the continuity of the historical tradition of reception. In Paris, Île-de-France, as in Calais or the Alpes-Maritimes, many colleagues facing the same difficulties experience, beyond our different political affiliations, the desire, born from a common finding, to find concrete solutions. This desire to find solutions, to make up for shortcomings in the face of changes in migration policies, guided Jean-Luc Warsmann's work. With your permission, I greet in your presence, Madam Minister, the state of mind of the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, who has shown on these complex issues both the willingness to dialogue with all his interlocutors and a determination to act taking into account the balance between the dignity of people and the necessary firmness. You will allow me, as speaker of the UDI-Agir and independent group, to welcome once again Jean-Luc Warsmann, our excellent colleague, who has worked with sincerity and clarity on this text, and has been able to convince many of our partners, including some of our colleagues or members of the Government, which is not nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u113	What are you waiting for to come home?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the REM and LR groups]] True to an approach that has always been intended to be pragmatic and constructive, our group will of course vote on the bill in the general interest. It is our honour and duty to accompany you, and to ensure that we maintain the same spirit when we look at the asylum and immigration bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u115	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u116	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes back to our House again after it has been passed by the Senate. His philosophy has not changed, but, as our colleagues have pointed out very well, certain provisions have been tightened by the Senate majority. The text under discussion tends to make the detention of so-called "dubbed" asylum seekers, thus a deprivation of liberty, a system of ordinary law, or at least one that can be commonly applied. After a brief reminder of the Dublin Regulation, I will focus on the objective of this proposal in an announced context of reshaping the immigration regime and the status of refugees, and uncertainty as to the operational nature of the scheme. I will then present the amendments proposed by our group and the meaning attached to them. The Dublin Regulation sets out the criteria and mechanisms for determining which EU Member State is responsible for examining an asylum application. It is clear that the primary responsibility for examining an asylum application lies with the Member State which played the most important role in the applicant's entry into the European Union. In practice, this implies that the responsibility for the vast majority of asylum applications lies with a small number of Member States. In the situation covered by the proposed law, an irregular alien who is the subject of a transfer procedure to the responsible State will be placed in an administrative detention centre even before the transfer is carried out. The proposed law aims to ensure that detention is legally guaranteed for the duration of the procedure for determining the State responsible for examining the application for asylum. The text refers to the notion of "risk of flight", following a decision of the Court of Cassation of 27 September 2017, which made it illegal to detain "dubbed" persons in the absence of a mechanism to objectify the applicable criteria. The Court thus recalled that the detention of the persons concerned by Articles 2 and 28 of the Regulation of 26 June 2013, Dublin III, is indeed possible in the event of a "significant risk of leakage", but that there is no binding general provision under national law "establishing the objective criteria on which the grounds for fear of the applicant's flight are based". The criteria contained in this bill are extensive and cover a large number of situations. I recall that the rights we are talking about are those of migrants who, I repeat, in their vast majority, flee from war, violence and abuses committed by armed groups or illegal and illegitimate political regimes. Article 1 sets out the cumulative conditions to be met in order to justify detention:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u117	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u118	... on the one hand, a significant risk of leakage, examined on the basis of an individual assessment of the situation, which must take into account the vulnerability of the person concerned; on the other hand, the proportionality of the detention measure and the impossibility of applying a house arrest. But, as I said earlier, no study has been carried out on the impact of the text on the guarantees provided to applicants for refugee status. The inclusion of this bill on our agenda also reveals an astonishing chronology, while another piece of legislation, entitled "Bill for Controlled Immigration and an Effective Right of Asylum", which is expected to deal with these issues in a sustainable manner, or even to recast the matter, will soon be under discussion. This urgency can be explained by the recent decision of the Court of Cassation, which is likely to weaken the detention regime. The Senate, in a kind of race to restrict rights, has, for its part, tightened certain provisions of the bill. I am thinking, among other things, of the time limit, reduced from fourteen to seven days, during which asylum seekers may file an appeal, or of the extension to six days of the period of validity of the orders authorizing home visits. During the debates in committee, on the occasion of this second reading, there was much talk of pragmatism and realism. The deputies were asked not to have any states of soul, to set aside their conscience...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u119	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u120	...to choose efficiency. That is why this proposal, which is simply intended to be effective, ignores reality. Like other texts, it appears primarily intended to make public to the public, who often find it difficult to distinguish the figure of the asylum-seeker from those of the economic migrant and of the foreigner, that one will remain firm on the principles, even forgetting that the reality is often different. We remain contemplating the extent to which the operational nature of these measures is not taken into account. Yet, according to a report by one of our colleagues in the Senate, only 10% of the transfer procedures under the Dublin Rules were completed in 2016, and the reasons for this failure have nothing to do with the flight of the pending migrants. This proposal also comes at a time when, in 2018, the number of asylum seekers subject to a transfer procedure is expected to increase by 30%. It will certainly be possible to say, under governance by figures, that more administrative detentions will be made. Such an accounting logic is already at work in the substantive review processes of the files, where the quality of the processing of applications and the quality of the decisions rendered appear to be eroded behind a requirement to reduce delays and increase the number of cases processed. Does that mean we're more efficient? Nothing's less sure. I note that, according to the 2016 CIMADE report, fewer than one in two people in detention are leaving the territory. This text will, I am sure, be adopted without knowing whether the necessary means to implement it will be available. Finally, you justify the urgency of these measures by the need to prevent the risk that an asylum-seeker, given the circumstances, will eventually find himself in an irregular situation. However, I can't help but think that, in the 2018 Finance Bill, spending on the fight against irregular immigration has fallen by 7%! In these circumstances, if consideration of this proposal before the more general bill that we expect may be relevant to the law alone, it questions its purpose and consistency in the context that I have just described. The amendments tabled by the New Left Group in order to better guarantee the rights of "humanitarian" migrants have been systematically regarded as super-faithful. However, in the light of the case law of the major courts protecting rights, the lack of precision is much more often punished than the excess of provisions. In addition, in many cases, the recall of rights helps the appropriation of the law and promotes its readability and the intelligibility of its content. The amendments that I will propose on behalf of my group are aimed at ensuring that the measures adopted are proportionate to the risk, because we refuse any systematisation – and if they are not modified, we will ask for the deletion of the articles of the bill – and also to ensure that the rights of children and families are respected. I note that neither children nor women escape the logic of extended preventive detention, which could constitute a violation of the protection provisions which provide for differential treatment of their situation. I also note that the tightening of the text by the Senate will have the effect of reducing the rights granted to detained applicants, even though they may be more likely to be subjected to it, as if the need to manage larger flows of asylum seekers would necessarily lead to an erosion of the guarantees provided to them, to the extension of the rights of the administration and to a greater severity of the law that it is responsible for implementing! The New Left Group, which I speak for today, refuses to support this bill in its very principle. Assembling his responsibilities, he demands that his content evolve in line with the affirmation of the most fragile right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u121	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u122	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the articles of this bill, on behalf of my group, I wish to challenge the principle, the foundations and the means. I also mean that we cannot dissociate, in this review, the provisions of this bill from those of the future asylum and immigration bill that we are aware of. Let us start from the concrete situation of the persons who are subject to the "dublinage" procedure, whereby France can, in theory, initiate steps to return an asylum-seeker to the country responsible for examining his application. In 2015, the proportion of persons affected by this procedure represented only 10% of the total number of asylum seekers. Now, more than one in every two people is likely to notice: the magnitude is quite different. Are persons potentially subject to the dubliage procedure in this situation because they have been denied the right to asylum or for other reasons? Today, it turns out that 60% of these so-called "dublinés" did not actually apply for asylum in the country through which they entered European territory. Indeed, the countries where asylum seekers most often arrive, such as Greece and Italy, tend to make it systematic to take prints and photographs, and consider this as proof that the person concerned falls within the scope of the Dublin Regulation. In no case, however, does this mean that these persons have actually applied for asylum, nor, more importantly, that their application has been examined in accordance with the Geneva Convention. In this situation, France had two ways of reacting. The first possibility was to ensure that, throughout the European Union, the conditions for the right of asylum were the same and complied with the Geneva Convention. The other possibility, the one that the European Union has chosen and that you will follow, is to consider that any foreigner "dublinated" is an offender in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u123	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u124	This bill constitutes the first floor of the rocket to challenge the right to asylum, the second being the Government's future bill on asylum and immigration, which will aggravate the situation. Indeed, in the light of the provisions provided for, you intend to allow a search of the luggage and a visual inspection, with the consent of the foreigner or, failing that, after a simple information from the public prosecutor. You also intend to double the maximum length of detention, increasing it to 90 days or even one hundred and thirty-five days under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u125	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u126	You also intend to make automatic the taking of fingerprints and photographs of an alien – the refusal that may be subject to criminal sanctions and a ban on return to French territory – during a detention for checking the right to stay which, moreover, should increase from sixteen to twenty-four hours. You also intend to re-establish an offence of crossing external borders outside a border crossing point under penalty of one year's imprisonment and a fine of EUR 3750. All this, moreover, echoes Article 19 of the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, which has transformed the state of emergency into a common law: in this article, if one has good memory, you have dealt with the question of administrative crossing points...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u127	None of this is in the text: out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u128	... by allowing the identity control of any foreigner at the borders, at stations and at airports – 80% of the territory. You will generalize the use of tele-hearings, in particular before the National Court of Asylum and the administrative and judicial courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u129	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, let me determine the subjects I wish to address! All this is Kafkai, whereas previously the foreigner concerned could refuse such a procedure. Moreover, foreigners who lodge an appeal before the National Court of Asylum will no longer automatically have the right to remain on French soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u131	You're the wrong text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u132	The measures that can be described as an exception, because particularly liberticides, such as obligations to leave the territory without delay, prohibitions of return to French territory, house arrest...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u133	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u134	Of course, if that is the subject, it is even the continuation of the bill that you are proposing to us today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u135	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u136	... these measures will become automatic in the vast majority of situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u137	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u138	In this area, in reality, France has chosen hypocrisy. You said – I am talking about the Government for the moment – that you will respect the right to asylum more. In fact, it is the opposite, since you have just found that you will, as a matter of principle, refuse the "dublinés", on the pretext that they have applied for asylum in another European country – which, in the majority of cases, as we have just seen, is incorrect. You thus endorse a historical setback in the right of asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u139	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u140	You tell us that those who have obtained the right to asylum will be better treated. Of course, but to get it, it will be an increasingly complicated path of obstacles. You tell us that you are realistic, but according to the information report on the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" budget mission of the 2018 Finance Bill, which confirms, as we all know, the figures recorded in 2016 and 2017, only 6% of Dublin procedures are completed. This is simply due to the existence of financial, material, legal and administrative limitations on the removal of so many people. As evidence, you have had to abandon, in the current version of the bill that you intend to introduce in Parliament, the notion of "safe third country".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u141	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u142	The first safe third country that the Government had chosen was Libya, which could make us smile if the horrors that take place there did not lead us to grimace instead.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u143	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u144	The rapporteur, this way of repeating 'this is not the subject' is particularly unpleasant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u145	Turns out I've been working on this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u146	Let me go on! Perhaps the President could allow me to express, in a democratic way, a different opinion from yours, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u147	Let the speaker speak, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u148	Thank you, I'm on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u149	Go on, but let me also say something.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u150	You will have every opportunity to do so at a later stage, for example by answering me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u151	Please let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u152	Try to support the expression of opposing opinions! In fact, the figures show that the conditions laid down by the Dublin Regulation do not meet the challenge we are facing, but act as a massive deterrent against asylum seekers and, more generally, migrants. Some questions therefore remain: how does France respect the right to asylum and the principles of the Geneva Convention, the preamble to the 1946 Constitution and the rights attached to them? Does our country intend to face with dignity the consequences of these population movements, in which, like most rich countries, it has an important responsibility, be it wars that ravage certain countries, the dismemberment or weakening of certain states – such as Libya, following our intervention in 2011 – or global warming or the free trade policies that we impose on many African countries – starting with those of the West through economic partnership agreements – with the effect of destabilising their economies? Otherwise, as long as the causes of forced departures are not addressed, we will have to take our part to bear the consequences. While we are obliged to apply the right of asylum and the Geneva Conventions, the operation of the Dublin Regulation ultimately leads us not to respect them. However, we should consider in any other way those whom we call "the rejected of the right of asylum", those which your proposals lead to consider as offenders, those whom you have the unrealistic and inhuman ambition to reject I do not know where. This means calling into question the Touquet agreements, because we are not meant to be Britain's barrier guards. France would be proud to receive these migrants with dignity on its territory and to stop considering these refugees in situations of humanitarian distress, fleeing extreme economic and climatic conditions, are only criminals or people whose fate can be swept away by a hand. [[Exclaims on the REM, MODEM and UDI-Agir panels]] Whether it is at European or French level, when compelling reasons push people from home, there is no point in increasing the height of barbed wire, at the risk of denying human rights and our principles of humanity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Because we are realistic and fraternal – by saying this, I know how to speak at the heart of many of our colleagues, including members of the REM Group – we will vote against this bill and continue to reject this policy in the future. Thank you for listening and, for some, for your kindness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u153	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u154	The rapporteur has gone beyond the limits!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u155	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the words used by the Defender of Rights, the text we are examining today at second reading makes "take an unprecedented turn in the history of the administrative detention of foreigners". It creates an unprecedented measure of detention, independent of any removal order, which is a measure of deprivation of liberty for the comfort of the administration. So far, detention could only concern persons in an irregular situation. It only intervened in order to execute an expulsion order and should last only as long as it was strictly necessary to arrange the departure of the person concerned. With this proposal for a law, detention would be preventive, since an asylum-seeker placed in Dublin proceedings could be subject to administrative detention at the time of lodging his application for treatment, the time for the administration to determine the State responsible for his application. Detention could therefore apply to a very large number of people in Dublin proceedings, which would lead to massive and disproportionate confinement. The objective is clear: to increase the rate of detention, to give the administration the opportunity to lock up as many people as possible, including in a regular situation, and then to speed up the transfer of persons under Dublin procedure. We reject this drift of increasing barriers and controls to the access of foreigners to their fundamental rights. We believe that France must be faithful to its tradition of asylum in Europe and take its full part in the reception of refugees. It is a moral requirement in the history and values of our Republic, but it is also a legal obligation under international law. However, contrary to Emmanuel Macron's statements of intent, policy towards asylum seekers is an increasingly repressive policy, which leads to the weakening of their rights and guarantees. It is so true that Members of Parliament are moving in the very ranks of the majority. Let us bear in mind that the current disastrous situation is primarily the result of a lack of political will. Let us recall a few figures: as part of the relocation mechanism, France has committed to accommodate 30,750 people between 2015 and 2017. As of 4 September 2017, only 4278 people had been relocated to France. In the face of such a review, the European Commission, in its fifteenth report on relocation and resettlement, published on 6 September 2017, classified France in the group of countries that "should urgently accelerate transfers". In this context, a deprivation of preventive liberty is unworthy, and we strongly reject this infringement of the fundamental rights of asylum seekers. This text is even more unacceptable in the version before us today, as its content has been aggravated by the Senate. Senators have indeed expanded the criteria for detention. They have also reduced from 15 to 7 days the time limit for referral to the administrative judge against a transfer decision, which will limit the effective application of the rights of the defence and respect for the principle of adversarial rights. They had finally introduced a new article aimed at securing the house arrest of foreigners. Beyond these amendments, we are fundamentally opposed to the objective pursued by this bill, which aims to ensure the full effectiveness of the Dublin Regulation. The Dublin system is indeed unfair and ineffective. It is criticized by many actors, including academics, non-governmental organisations, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to name but a few. This system is considered unfair, as it excludes in principle the applicant's will and arbitrarily designates a Member State as the sole person responsible for the asylum application. Furthermore, the Dublin system results in violations of the rights of applicants, in particular by allowing their transfer to Member States where reception conditions constitute inhuman and degrading treatment, contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In several cases, the Courts of Strasbourg and Luxembourg thus had no choice but to condemn the States responsible for such transfers, which had the effect of suspending partially the application of the Dublin Regulation, which was clearly incompatible with the fact that the application of the right of asylum in Europe was in fact very disparate and contrary to full respect for the rights of applicants. Clearly, the stated will to control the fate of asylum-seekers is a failure. This failure was foreseeable, as the Dublin system places a special weight on the border countries through which applicants enter Europe. I would like to conclude my statement by stressing the imperative need to protect foreign minor children and explicitly prohibit their detention. Together with our colleagues Yaël Braun-Pivet and Naima Moutchou, we visited the Mesnil-Amelot administrative detention centre on Monday. A 13-month-old girl had been locked up there for several days with her mother. In my view, this situation is totally unacceptable and violates the rights of the child!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u156	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u157	I recall that, six times since 2012, France has been sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights for the detention of families accompanied by children. These convictions are based on the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment, as well as on the rights to freedom and safety and respect for family life protected by the ECHR. Any detention of foreign minors should therefore have ceased, both in metropolitan France and in the overseas territories. On the contrary, their numbers have increased! In metropolitan France, it has more than tripled, from 41 children in 2013 to 182 in 2016, with an increase of 70% between 2015 and 2016. In Mayotte, the phenomenon is even more massive, with 4285 children in detention out of a total of 20,000. Currently, and as we have seen, administrative detention continues, without sufficient guarantees for children. That is why our group has tabled a bill to prohibit the administrative detention of underage children. The interests of the child must always take precedence over the consequences of his or her foreign origin. The enjoyment of the rights set forth in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child must be accessible to all children, including children of asylum-seekers, refugees and migrants. In conclusion, we will again strongly vote against this text, which trivializes the restrictions on the individual freedom of asylum seekers, including children, and tends to degrade their situation at all stages of their journey. This text unfortunately prefigures the future bill, which is very repressive, on asylum and immigration, which was prepared without consultation with the associations – as the French Coordination for the Right to Asylum denounces – and without any evaluation of the previous reform of 2015 being carried out. The associations are standing up against this reform. With the strike they launched on Tuesday, CNDA agents also draw an alarm: they denounce the accounting logic applied to the asylum, which gives priority to the shortening of the time limits for judgement over the quality of the decisions rendered. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In the end, with this bill, you want to secure the detention of asylum seekers under Dublin procedure when, on the contrary, we want to secure their rights and guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u158	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u159	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in order to approach the debate on this bill with pragmatism and to avoid the caricatures that have been heard on both sides, I think it is useful to answer a few questions. Is this bill intended to deal with the reception of asylum seekers, the integration of refugees and the situation of all foreigners in our territory? Obviously, no! Here we provide a legal response to a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 27 September 2017, which found, in French law, the absence of a definition of the significant risk of leakage. And what is this definition used for? To facilitate the transfer, with the possibility of detention, of persons who have been notified of their placement under the Dublin procedure, i.e. whose fingerprints have already been registered in another State of the European Union. The Dublin III Regulation allows for detention when four conditions are met: that there is a significant risk of the asylum seeker's flight, that detention has been decided on the basis of an individual assessment, that detention is proportional and that no less restrictive measures can be taken. The text before us is therefore intended to define the criteria for assessing the first of these conditions, the significant risk of leakage. We are therefore far from a general text on our migration policy! In order to legislate at best, it is important to clarify the purpose of the texts, to place them in their context and not to put all the fantasies and dogmas in them; do not act as if we are not going to meet in a few weeks to discuss together a reform that will make our right to asylum more effective! Is the Dublin III Regulation a satisfactory response to the migration crisis we have been experiencing in Europe since 2015? Obviously here again, the answer is no! As the President of the Republic himself said in his speech to the Prefects last September: "There are today seven texts that constitute the asylum package. I hope that we can speed up their discussion, give them real coherence, because our response is also a European response." Today, however, it is this regulation that governs European asylum law, and our country must respect its Community commitments. In order to enable our prefectural services and our police forces to implement the Dublin III regulation, we must give them that legal basis. This week I was with the police department in Paris and I heard the dismay of the officers who find themselves in the face of a very large number of people under Dublin procedure, whose administrative situation they cannot further study and whose transfer they cannot also proceed with when these people are departing from the authorities. It is our political responsibility, for all of us sitting in this Chamber, to enable the law to be properly applied. Is this text the panacea? Definitely not! However, its first reading by our House allowed for additional guarantees to be introduced for the benefit of those under the Dublin procedure who are not called into question. We must vote in accordance with the text as amended by the Senate. It seems to me essential to remember the reason why we Members of Parliament, representatives of the nation, are sitting in this House. We are here to legislate, not just to exchange views, to send words to each other and to make words resonate. It is a matter of debate with a view to making the law, which is to forge legal tools enabling police officers and prefectural officials to act, in this case to apply a European regulation that engages us. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Beyond the words, there are people – agents, residents and dublinés, as they are called. Staying in the blur is not in anyone's interest. Beyond the words, there is the law with a great "L", the one that must be applied in order to make sense, not to lose its substance, so that public order does not fail and so that the Republic reigns everywhere in the national territory. That is why the members of the La République group are inviting you to vote on the text, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u160	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u161	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are opening an essential debate – even if we are dealing with only one aspect – on the need for a thorough reform of our country's migration policy. This is nothing less than preserving the essential republican principle of the right to asylum. It was in the honour of our Republic, in its history, perhaps even in its raison d'être. However, he is currently being misled. Its fundamental principles are called into question, because our system makes almost no difference between the rejected asylum rights and those who benefit from the status – oh, how noble! – political refugee. The proposal for a law that we are considering this evening aims to ensure the proper application of the European asylum system, which must be admittedly breathless. It is based on a cardinal principle, which Jean-Luc Warsmann recalled earlier: only one State is competent to examine an asylum application. It is a question of discouraging an attitude – which has often been observed in recent years – to do its market, in a way, in search of the most generous legislation – or the most lax. While the approach adopted by successive versions of the Dublin Regulation is appropriate, it must be noted that its application leads to a serious failure. A few figures show this at the national level – but others at the European level as well. In 2016, 25963 asylum seekers were the subject of a Dublin procedure; 14308 of them have received the agreement of another Member State of the European Union allowing them to be taken over; and 1293 asylum-seekers were actually transferred there. Clearly, ladies and gentlemen, there is an inverted pyramid: of the nearly 26,000 asylum-seekers concerned, just over 14300 are accepted and barely more than a thousand transferred, or less than 5% of them. These figures, which alone demonstrate the bankruptcy of the system, can be explained by concrete reasons such as the denial of boarding or the disappearance of the persons concerned – that is, their flight, which is one of the stakes of this bill – once the transfer decision has been notified. More generally, this failure is due to an unprecedented migration context, which explains the difficulties in implementing the scheme. In 2017, more than 100,000 first asylum applications were registered by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – OFPRA – and 121000 by the asylum-seekers' reception centres – CADA, a record figure in the history of our Republic. This is a nearly doubling of arrivals – an increase of 90% – since 2010. At the European level, 363348 migrants – this precise figure is subject to bail, but certainly more than 360,000 migrants – crossed the Mediterranean in 2016. There is another explanation for this unprecedented migration crisis. The provisions of the Dublin Accords weigh – unfairly – on a limited number of states, including Greece, Italy and Hungary, which calls into question their own sustainability. In addition, some States – particularly those facing this migratory situation – have clearly adopted avoidance strategies to avoid the examination of certain asylum applications. Therefore, we will not be able to make the economy of a more comprehensive European policy, carried out at the level of Europe's external borders. I personally believe that the authorities of the European Union will have to set up the famous hot spots mentioned by some members of the majority, in order to ensure that asylum applications are processed quickly and humanely, and that asylum applications are received better and faster, with a renewed capacity for integration, while at the same time ensuring that the applicants are removed from the right of asylum to their respective countries of origin. In addition to these difficulties at European level, there are other strictly internal ones, of which I will give a particularly evocative example. Between 1 January and 18 September 2017, 3469 of the 5576 migrants registered at the Eurodac border in Calaisis refused to have their fingerprints collected, or about 62% of them. This situation is completely unacceptable and incomprehensible! How can legal procedures be carried out if those who are subject to them refuse to comply with the laws of the Republic? Only 132 persons had been held in police custody and none had been prosecuted for a criminal offence. One cannot conceive – at least this is the opinion of the members of the Republicans Group – the examination of an asylum application if the person concerned refuses to have his fingerprints collected. As honourable senators have clearly stated, such a refusal should be a sufficient ground for an immediate interruption of consideration of the claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u162	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u163	Finally, recent case law – which is the subject of this draft law –, both European and national – from the Court of Justice of the European Union or the Constitutional Council – has called into question the detention of foreigners under the Dublin Regulation. In practice, in France, it had become legally impossible to place foreigners in administrative detention within this framework, making it impossible to transfer them to the country where they had made their first request upon arrival in Europe. The bill presented by Jean-Luc Warsmann, which we are considering this evening, solves this only legal problem. It's progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u164	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u165	This approach is useful. We welcome it and will vote in favour of the bill, which is, however, too partial in its treatment of the serious and major issues facing us. At the very least, it draws the consequences of the case law that I referred to at the moment. They have sanctioned the absence in our legislation – due to the sub-transposition of the European directives referred to earlier by our rapporteur – of objective criteria characterising the risk of flight and justifying the administrative detention of an alien under the Dublin procedure. The Senate has usefully completed the bill. Our Committee on Laws has not gone back on the progress it has made, which I think is particularly relevant. The text you are proposing to vote on, Mr rapporteur, provides answers to the current difficulties, in particular by allowing administrative detention in very specific cases. Nevertheless, the members of the Republican Group feel that they alone are not enough to radically change our migration policy – which we believe is necessary, useful and indispensable – and thus ensure the effective removal of Dublin nationals. More generally, we believe that administrative detention must be re-established as the cornerstone of our policy of expulsion, which currently no longer exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u166	We'll lock up first, we'll talk later!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u167	There is no longer a policy of expulsion in our country – the rest is a matter of communication. It has become completely ineffective and almost powerless. According to a 2015 report by the Court of Auditors – Mr Valls was then Prime Minister – more than 96% of those denied asylum remain in France. In other words, more than 95 per cent of rejected asylum seekers remain illegally in our territory without a residence permit. According to the figures for 2017, more than 600,000 people have been rejected from their asylum applications and more than 55000 of them – it is important to recall – will remain, permanently or almost, in the national territory. We can't go on like this anymore. This illegal mass immigration undermines social cohesion in many territories of the Republic. I will also mention, by way of illustration, the 92076 measures of obligation to leave French territory – the famous OQTFs – pronounced in 2016, of which only 18% were actually carried out. Thus, in 2016 alone, 75587 people – according to the figures of the Directorate-General for Foreigners in France – remained on French territory despite the removal measures taken against them. We say this quite clearly: any foreigner in an irregular situation must leave French territory. The credibility of the State and respect for the rules of law are at stake. However, we know that administrative detention is the only effective instrument to ensure that an irregular alien or rejected asylum-seeker is effectively removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u168	Less than 20% are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u169	Without administrative detention, there will be no removal. This is the meaning of this bill, which facilitates the use of administrative detention in very specific cases. It is naive to think that a house arrest will make it possible to carry out an obligation to leave the national territory, as the members of the socialist majority who preceded the present one believed, which led to the explosion of immigration in our country. We want to systematize this principle, particularly for applicants from safe countries. We will shortly debate, Madam Minister, a bill on asylum and immigration, and we will table amendments to that effect. Although this is not directly related to the text before us, I would like to stress the need to give more resources to administrative detention centres. The tragedy of Marseilles showed the flaws of this system, especially in Lyon, where there had been a lack of placement in a detention centre. Since then, that is, very late, the prefects have received instructions. But we find, particularly in the course of the work carried out by the Law Commission, important difficulties: lack of places, overcrowded personnel, unprecedented complexity of procedures, and consequently derisory rates of enforcement of removal measures. We will have to have the courage to ask the question of the number of places available in the administrative detention centres: today there are twenty-six CRAs, and 1755 places, of which 184 overseas. This is naturally insufficient in view of the number of foreigners in an irregular situation, which are probably more than 400,000 in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, the limited purpose of this bill does not forget the need for a broader debate on France's migration policy. I believe it is necessary, in my conscience, to make a real turning point and to take back the question of flows and their control. France must equip itself with the tools that enable it to choose who has the right to enter and stay in its territory: it is about its sovereignty and cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u170	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u171	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments before I address our group's position at this point in the parliamentary procedure. The first one will aim to recall the precise purpose of this text – you will forgive me if I repeat things that have been said, but I have also heard a lot of digressions. The second will be a method, to warn against an overly emotional approach to the subject. It is not a question of discussing immigration policy today, or even of the asylum system in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u172	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u173	These debates are extremely important for the future of the country, and they will take place in this House, perhaps when the Government will table an asylum bill in the coming weeks – although, as I know from this text, I am not sure that it is responding to the questions raised about the migration policy that we want for our country. Who do we want to welcome, under what conditions? How many people do we want to welcome? This project does not address these topics. Today, however, our Assembly has only a very ad hoc mechanism to ensure, as has been said, the proper implementation by France of the Dublin III European Regulation, which, as a matter of common sense, seeks to determine, for each asylum application made on the territory of the European Union, the Member State which will be responsible for its examination. More precisely, as our rapporteur has pointed out, the obligation to adopt a text is the result of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Czech Republic, which requires Member States to set out in their legislation the objective criteria for a "significant risk of flight" of asylum seekers, allowing them to be detained during a transfer procedure to another Member State. This obligation has been reiterated many times, and still very recently, by the Court of Cassation. Today, these criteria simply do not exist in our legislation. The only purpose of this bill is – or at least was originally, because it now contains a number of other provisions – to set these criteria and to include them in our legislation. My second observation concerns the method. More than other topics, immigration issues generate emotion and even passion. This is understandable because these subjects necessarily have a humanitarian dimension. But, as legislators, we have to keep it right. We must stay away from the besieged fortress syndrome, which would lead us to see an invader in every foreigner entering French soil, as well as from empathy or compassion for the figure of the migrant, which would make us forget that our mission is first of all to defend the best interests of the country. I come to the bill before us today. The amendments made by the Senate did not, in my view, alter the general scheme of the text that we voted on at first reading. The main contribution of the Senate – this point has been little stressed – concerns the regime of house arrest of a foreigner who is the subject of a measure of expulsion from the territory. Article 3, new, brings the code of entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum, CESEDA, into line with a recent decision of the Constitutional Council. House arrest may, as before, be extended beyond five years – a very long period – but must now be justified by special circumstances, including the absence of guarantees of representation of the alien or the fact that his presence would constitute a serious threat to public order. Otherwise, she'll have to stop. The Senate's contribution on this point therefore reinforces the foreigner's right to move freely within the national territory, by regulating more strictly the power of the administrative authority to interfere with it. The MODEM Group will vote to bring the CESEDA into line with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. Two other significant changes have been introduced by the Senate: firstly, concerning the extension of the criteria for assessing the existence of a significant risk of flight from the alien subject to a transfer procedure; on the other hand, concerning the time limit for the foreigner to appeal against a transfer decision. With regard to the former, we found it justified to take into account the foreigner's concealment of elements "of his migratory path, of his family situation or of his previous applications for asylum". I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that a mere omission by a foreigner of one or more of these elements cannot in itself justify his detention. Under the terms of the text, this omission must be voluntary, that is to say, it is not a mere omission, but really a concealment. It will be up to the administrative authority to characterize this concealment, including the alien's willful intention, to prove it, and the judge of freedoms and detention to control the existence of concealment. That is why the MODEM and related groups will vote for the text as it stands. With regard to the second amendment, the Senate has effectively reduced the time allowed abroad from 15 days to 7 days to ask the administrative judge for the annulment of a transfer decision. The Law Commission decided not to reconsider this amendment and to vote on the proposed law. I myself hesitated to vote in this way, particularly considering the absence of any risk of censorship by the European Court of Human Rights, since the reasonable time limit within the meaning of Article 6(1) of the Convention is, if you allow me to do so, that which is not too long and not that which is not too short. Another argument put forward by the Government is that it is preferable to adopt the bill today, by an identical vote of the National Assembly and the Senate, rather than to engage, on what is only a marginal provision of the text, in a new parliamentary shuttle. However, our group felt that we should return to the original text of the House on this point and maintain a period of 15 days. It will therefore vote, subject to this reservation, on this proposal for a law allowing for the proper application of the European asylum system. In conclusion, the text before us, the scope of which is very limited, strikes a fair balance between the French tradition of receiving refugees, in line with the humanist ideals of our country, and the need for the effective implementation of our European commitments to transfer asylum seekers to other countries of the Union, when they are competent to decide on their applications. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] In fact, it is the facts that will ultimately settle. Today, this has been said on several occasions, among all the cases which fall under the Dublin Regulation and in which France has received the agreement of the countries which are to examine asylum applications in its place, only a small minority of the applicants are actually transferred. New figures, covering the 2018 transfers, will be published in early 2019. It is on their basis that we can judge the effectiveness of our new legislation and the results of the Government's action. As far as I'm concerned, I trust him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u174	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u175	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are today considering at second reading the proposal for the proper application of the European asylum system. The purpose of this text is to respond to the current shortcomings in our asylum treatment system; It also aims to bring our legislation into line with the provisions of the Dublin III Regulation. If we can only satisfy ourselves with this desire to see France honour its European commitments, it is now clear that the legal framework drawn up by the Dublin III Regulation is inadequate for reality and does not allow for satisfactory collective treatment of asylum. I regularly hear about our response to the "migration crisis" on the European continent. For my part, I would refer to a "challenges", because it has now been ten years since the European continent faced a massive influx of people fleeing conflict zones. Moreover, the geopolitical situation of the areas affected by the departures seems unfortunately conducive to the persistence of these migratory flows: we must therefore reflect on the length of time. However, the European legal framework, designed to respond urgently to a critical situation, is, at the very least, inadequate for long-term management of migration. The current system places the burden of receiving and caring for refugees on countries of first entry in an important and totally unfair manner. In particular, it provides that the country in which the asylum-seeker first arrived is competent to decide on the application. This situation leads many asylum-seekers to evade the procedures and to wait in hiding for the expiry of the 18-month period within which they can apply for asylum in the country of residence. In addition, evictions of "dublinés" are often followed by the almost immediate return of these persons, given the impossibility of the authorities of the host countries taking care of these persons. Two years ago, noting that host countries could not cope with the situation, the European Commission launched a programme for the relocation and resettlement of asylum seekers, which ended last September. This plan initially provided for the relocation of nearly 100,000 people to the various Member States of the European Union. However, several States had simply refused to meet their responsibilities and had since been the subject of an infringement procedure. The relocations involved just over 28,000 people, or 28% of the initial number. This reflects the lack of solidarity between the Member States, but also the lack of effectiveness of the legal mechanisms that define the European asylum policy. The European Union, which is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, is not in a position in 2018 to enforce its own solidarity mechanisms with regard to the relocation of refugees. France is in favour of relocation, which appears to be the most fair and equitable solution to ensure the proper and efficient reception of asylum seekers while at the same time distributing the burden among the Member States. This same logic of efficiency is at the heart of the work of the Ministry of the Interior in order to propose soon measures to improve our own reception system. However, progress at national level must be complemented by a genuine reform of the European asylum system, which must be accompanied in a demanding manner. The European asylum policy as a whole must be put to a standstill in order to ensure more solidarity between the Member States, more efficiency in the processing of applications, but also more pragmatism in the application of decisions concerning rejected asylum seekers. As a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I have been appointed, together with my colleague Marietta Karamanli, rapporteur on the European reform of the right of asylum. We intend to make concrete proposals in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] This will echo the position that the Republic is taking on European issues, and that I have already had the opportunity to express in this Chamber: Euroconvinced, we will not leave the criticism of the Union to its critics, as many of them in this Chamber, but we will strive to match these criticisms with concrete proposals, because that is what separates constructive criticism from the political stance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u176	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u177	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to speak on this bill. It is obviously necessary. I am deeply committed to the right of asylum. It is the greatness of our democracy. France has always opened its doors to the persecuted, the hunted for their ideas, their convictions or their religion. And it must continue to do so, but without entrusting to others what is essential, political – in the true sense of the word – even vital choices. It is up to the French people to decide, especially with regard to the reception of foreign populations, and it is up to us, parliamentarians, to ensure that this is the case. If it is a matter of harmonising our legislation to make it more effective, so much the better! But with regard to the right to asylum, some of our European neighbours sometimes show a rare inconsistency. Since 1990 and the Dublin agreements, asylum seekers have had to file their applications in the first European country in which they entered. Their fingerprints are then recorded in the Eurodac file. Thus, for any asylum application lodged in France, the prefecture seized consults this file and, if the asylum seeker's fingerprints are included, asks the first host country, the country responsible, to recover it, if I dare say so. In practice, the responsible State is the one in which the applicant's fingerprints were collected. Unfortunately, in practice, States that are often "first-inbound" are increasingly implementing avoidance strategies so as not to be identified as the State responsible for certain asylum applications. For example, fingerprinting can be estimated at less than 25% from people illegally crossing an external border of the European Union. As you will have understood, European harmonisation is good, provided that all states play the game. In France, 62% of foreigners arrested by the Central Border Police Directorate refuse to give their fingerprints, with the immediate result that the Administration is unable to consult Eurodac as to whether or not they are subject to the Dublin agreements. Even if, since 2016, such a refusal is punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of 3750 euros, the prosecution authorities rarely prosecute for this reason. As a result of the migration crisis, the "dublinés" account for about 40% of the approximately 100,000 asylum seekers who arrived in France in 2017. Some associations were able to calculate that, if their transfer to the responsible country could be carried out within a month, this would result in savings of €252 million – not to mention the positive consequences on the length of the procedures for other asylum seekers. In 2015, the Court of Auditors published a fairly eloquent report which made the government at the time uncomfortable; As a result, 96 per cent of rejected asylum seekers remained ultimately in the national territory. President Macron has since recognized that the practice of reappointments is neither effective nor efficient. Consideration was given to reducing the time taken to review applications by OFPRA and increasing the length of detention from 45 to 90 days in order to allow police officers more time to investigate the files. In fact, none of this will work unless agreements are reached with the countries of origin, as many consulates refuse to issue the necessary pass for the return of the illegals. Shouldn't sanctions be imposed on these countries? Against some of them, we do not lack means of retaliation. On January 29, I was at the administrative detention centre in Sète. In discussions with the various police personnel present, I have been told that no effective solution can be implemented without the active involvement of the States of origin. How much time did these police officers spend trying to find the nationality of the persons detained? What energy was spent accompanying them to the various consulates in an attempt to verify their statements? How many personnel are involved in all these activities? How much money is spent on such modest results and so little efficiency? The discouragement of many civil servants is palpable. No harmonisation of legislation will be effective if major diplomatic action is not initiated. Police officers are convinced of this, their effectiveness depends on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! And, let's say, by a little more firmness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u178	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u179	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, that has been said by Mrs Vichnievsky, we must respond to an ad hoc and operational problem, the one that your bill, Mr rapporteur, intends to solve. This problem is summed up in a few words: before 25 September 2017, France could place foreign nationals who fall under the Dublin III Regulation in administrative detention; Since that date, the Court of Cassation no longer authorizes it, considering that the law does not specify the concept of a significant risk of leakage justifying the detention. It is therefore not a question of creating new cases of administrative detention, but of re-establishing a practice prohibited for five months, because of a legal vacuum which the Court of Cassation invites us to fill. Hence the proposal, rapporteur, to include in the law the criteria – eleven in the original text, twelve at the end of the Senate reading – that define the significant risk of leakage. I say this to those of our colleagues who reject this bill: you are calling for a legal vacuum in which the prefectures themselves, without the need for a long impact assessment, stress that it blocks the application of the Dublin III regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u180	For reasons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u181	There's been a court decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u182	Since the decision of the highest judicial court, transfers of the "dubrinés" have been weakened since it is no longer possible to detain the persons concerned for the time necessary to prepare for their removal. In the meantime, I would like to point out that, for 2017 alone, Germany has transferred 4500 foreign nationals under the Dublin Regulation to France. However, the REM Group wished, from the first reading, and with your approval, Mr rapporteur, to provide additional guarantees, for a simple reason: administrative detention is never an insignificant decision because it is deprivation of liberty. We have therefore introduced the condition of vulnerability, which is in addition to the obligation to make any administrative detention subject to an individual assessment of the persons concerned, and to the principle of proportionality imposed by deprivation of liberty. Our group also hoped that the desire to conceal its identity and the impossibility – in good faith – of presenting a valid identity document would not be confused, again to take account of the specific situation of asylum seekers. This balance has been changed by the Senate, which has extended administrative detention to the refusal of the persons concerned to leave their fingerprints. I must say that the intention is not illegitimate. I will confine myself here to one example: between January and September 2017, of the 5576 presentations at the Eurodac terminal in Calaisis, 62% of the refusals to collect fingerprints were recorded.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u183	We have the same numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u184	So there's an operational problem. But we fear that the addition of the Senate will remain ineffective. The law of 7 March 2016, defended by Bernard Cazeneuve, created an offence of refusal of fingerprinting punishable by one year's imprisonment and €3750 fine, without this threat reducing the number of refusals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u185	This has never been applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u186	This law was made for trade unionists! They were the ones who refused to take their fingerprints.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u187	How would the threat of administrative detention succeed, Mr. Ciotti? That is the question we are asking ourselves. Similarly, the Senate increased the validity of the judge's orders for home visits from four to six days, while reducing the time limit for appeals to the administrative judge against transfer decisions from fifteen to seven days. Again, we question the relevance of more restrictive measures unrelated to the purpose of the bill, which is to clarify the concept of a significant risk of leakage. We will therefore come back to the Senate's input during the discussion of the Asylum and Immigration Bill, which will be introduced next week in the Council of Ministers, all the more so as we will deal with the issue of home visits and the issue of turnaround times more comprehensively and therefore more coherently. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] However, for the time being, a proper vote is needed, because of the operational difficulties I mentioned a moment ago: France must not waste time in implementing the Dublin III regulation, because our partners – I mentioned Germany's example – do not refuse to implement when it comes to transferring to our country the people whose asylum applications we have to consider. Despite the reservations I have expressed, the bill seems to us to be responding to our European commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u189	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u190	Madam Chair, minister, committee chair, ladies and gentlemen, let us put it plainly, the bill that we are considering today at second reading is unnecessarily hardened by the right-wing majority of the Senate. Needless, because some additions do not bring anything to the purpose of the law. I doubt, for example, that the reduction of the time limit for appeal against a transfer decision from 15 days to 7 days would allow for a better application of the European asylum system. On the other hand, it sacrifices the rights of applicants and the work of those who accompany them, lawyers and associations. Needless to say, the added condition for characterising the significant risk of leakage, of concealment of elements of the migration route or of the applicant's family situation is vague. Are we talking about hidden elements knowingly or by omission? And even if these elements were hidden knowingly, it may be necessary to understand the reason, often linked to the fear of returning to their country. Take the example of a Sudanese who fled his country because of his sexual orientation. Knowing that homosexuality in Sudan is punishable by the death penalty, is it difficult to understand that this person is not able to tell his or her story as soon as he or she enters Europe?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u192	Migrants must be given the time to tell. As you will have understood, the current version of the text does not seem satisfactory to me. This text does not agree with me, but I have heard that there is a risk of a legal vacuum, which leads the majority to wish to adopt it today in consistent terms. In addition, I have noted the strong commitment of the Government and our majority group to revert to these provisions as soon as the parliamentary debate on the "asylum, immigration, integration" bill, which will be presented next week in the Council of Ministers. I have taken note of these clear commitments, and I have therefore not tabled again or signed the amendments that we have discussed on these points in the Committee on Laws. For, yes, the parliamentary debate on the "asylum, immigration, integration" bill will be the moment of truth. I know that some will then be tempted by the political postures: some, at the Republicans or at the National Front, will insurrection against the supposed laxism of the Government in the face of the migration challenge, while others will attempt to demonstrate the inhumanity of the text, while forgetting that they were, for some, responsibilities a few months ago. The subject deserves better. Let's talk about concrete measures. Yes, Members of the majority will be able to come together behind a balanced, fair, sustainable and humane text. It is on the eve of the adoption of the "asylum, immigration, integration" law that we, the Government and the majority, will be able to take stock of our work. Will we then have been able to strengthen the dialogue with the associations and find with them spaces for dialogue and experimentation in the territories? Their request not to restrict the conditions of access to the residence permit for sick aliens was heard, which is a very good first decision. Will we have a national and European reflection on the issue of climate migration? This would be consistent with our willingness to be exemplary in the face of the climate challenge. Will we have taken strong steps, either in the law or alongside it, to integrate asylum seekers, in particular to facilitate training and work during the proceedings? Have we reached a compromise on the maximum time limit for appeal to the National Court of Asylum? Will we have an informed debate on the maximum length of detention and change the conditions of detention? Will we succeed in having a comprehensive approach by integrating the issue of integration and that of development aid? Will we have been able to discuss without taboo other key issues such as the evolution of the concept of solidarity crime or the proposals that France should defend at European level for a new Dublin regulation? The debate will be complex, as we know, but, I am sure, the majority will respond now and will be able to come together. Successful collective drafting of a law that we can defend together is a great challenge. It won't be easy, but we in the majority will do everything we can to get there. To those who dream that the majority will break on this text, I say it very simply: we will not do you that pleasure. Finding ambitious compromises is in the DNA of The Republic on the move and the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u193	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We owe this success to our country and to the world. We also owe it to the thousands of deaths on the road to exile.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u195	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u196	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u197	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u198	I repeat a question put by the rapporteur: why are we here today? What are we talking about? There is a question of filling a legal gap; It is up to the legislator to make a law operational. To this end, a number of criteria for the significant risk of leakage were defined at the first reading of this text. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] However, section 1 as amended by the Senate now provides that a human being may be deprived of liberty for the sole act of being guilty of self-injury. For when you come to burn the pulp of your fingers voluntarily, it is a self-mutilation. When one reaches such an end, it is not the will of fraud that is involved; It was despair that guided such a gesture. Is despair a significant risk of flight? The proposed law provides for an individual assessment taking into account the vulnerability of the person concerned. In my view, the voluntary alteration of her own fingerprints alone attests to a state of vulnerability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u199	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u200	Article 1 lays down the conditions for the detention of aliens subject to Dublin proceedings. Who exactly are we talking about in this article? Who are these "foreigners"? Women, men and children who have left their countries, forced, with the sole aim of surviving any conflict or famine. Above all, how many are they, those whose path of wandering passes through France? Barely 100,000, a drop of water compared to 62 million exiles around the world. I'm going to try to relax a little bit the heavy atmosphere here. As my Polish grandmother so well said, you have to be careful. So, anticipate and see if, by a happy chance, we could not place these foreigners in an administrative detention centre: by these periods of great cold, would it not, in the end, be a chance for them? And, as my other grandmother, Italian, would have said, have a little bit of imagination: if ever, barely arrived, these foreigners had the pretension to flee, they could land immediately for forty-five days in safety! And then, anyway, what an idea of having already handed over his fingerprints! But maybe it's to get a title, that of "dubliné", which sounds good when you're nothing, for no one, anywhere. My third alderman, by alliance, Dutch for his part, might have been surprised that only the Minister of the Interior deals with the subject, whereas he could be the subject of a consultation with the Minister for Solidarity and Health and the Minister for Labour, or even with the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. I would have explained to him that one of the tasks of the Minister of the Interior is to guarantee the security of citizens and property, while protecting the population from risks and scourges of all kinds. No doubt it is a question of this: this foreign host would threaten a national balance. I believe that this text, which seeks to found another future in a short period of time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Wonner...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u202	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ... still deserves some well-informed debates in this Chamber. The aim is to refer to the European asylum system without depriving asylum seekers of their basic freedoms and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u203	Mrs. Florence Granjus has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u204	The aim of this draft law is to make the European asylum system applicable again. It is important and necessary to legislate for the Dublin III regime to be implemented operationally by the administrative authorities. I belong to the presidential majority and I appreciate being able to speak and discuss the conditions for this implementation. There are different sensitivities within my political group, as well as within any group, which are expressed in order to better inform the debate, the decisions taken and their impact. The vote on this text will lead for the first time to the introduction into French legislation of the most restrictive measures of the European Regulation on individual freedoms and fundamental rights of asylum seekers. We must never lose sight of the fact that France, a country of human rights, has a history and tradition of acceptance that materialize in its republican motto "Freedom, Equality, Fraternity". With the adoption of Article 1, administrative detention could concern persons who have not been the subject of an expulsion order. Addressing the freedom of individuals, one of the most basic fundamental rights, by broadening the criteria of administrative detention can pose a significant danger and trivialize confinement. The role of any State representative is to ensure that no administrative machinery ends up weakening the fundamental rights of an already fragile population in search of international protection. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I welcome all the private, public and voluntary actors who work daily, in difficult working conditions, to make asylum effective. I can count on our government to ensure that France implements a fair and balanced asylum policy, commensurate with the generosity and expectations of the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u205	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u206	This text was hardened during its consideration in the Senate. For my part, I voted against the bill after the first reading in the National Assembly. It goes without saying that I am not in favour of this amended text. I disagree with the text but, above all, with the principle underlying it, namely the strict application of the Dublin Regulation. The major shortcomings of the Dublin III Regulation are pointed out unanimously; Everyone agrees on their flaws. Therefore, it does not seem relevant to me to rely on this obsolete text in order to continue to build our right. I think it would be preferable, as proposed by the Defender of Rights, to suspend its application or, failing that, to apply it flexibly, as provided for in article 17. The Regulation lays down several criteria for identifying the State responsible for the application for asylum. The principal of these criteria defines as responsible the first State whose border has been illegally crossed. The result is a clear inequality between the countries at the borders of Europe and the others. This postponement of the European Union's collective responsibility to the countries located at the borders of Europe alone can only be called into question. We would like to strengthen the application of the Dublin regime in order to send more applicants back to Italy, Greece and Spain? I can't solve it. The Dublin III regulation bears in it the seeds of its dysfunctions. It must, of course, be reformed, but it is not for tomorrow, because there are major differences within the Union. Pending a hypothetical revision of the regulation, what do we do? Do we apply it to the letter? Do we suspend him? Or do we apply it flexibly? I would like to be informed, Madam Minister, about the intentions of the Government in this matter, because the initial drafting of the text that it submitted led to an application to the letter of the Rules, which I find inappropriate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Dupont...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u208	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... ineffective and problematic with regard to respect for the right to asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u209	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u210	Minister, I am very pleased to see you on the bench this afternoon for a second reading of this text. Nevertheless, it seeks to fill a legal vacuum even though we are going to deal with these issues again very quickly. Mr.Rapporteur, I noted your enthusiasm and your ability to convince us not to go back to the Senate text – the opposite would have disappointed me. We want to fill a legal vacuum, but within a legal framework, the Dublin Regulation, whose imperfections, inefficiency and the fact that it is a source of some form of injustice, we know that the main gateways are mainly in some countries in southern Europe. What are we talking about? A police measure, whose contours were aggravated by the Senate's reading of it: less time for rights, more time for detention. On the other hand, I wonder about the effectiveness of a text that we are told will be amended in a few months, if not in a few weeks – the lawyer I am would soon have taken up this incongruity. Do we not need, as has been said, another approach, a real political vision, which would involve your ministry, of course, but also the ministries responsible for labour, health and education? These considerations are general, you will tell me, but they are so essential to me. I have tabled, along with several of my colleagues, three amendments aimed at re-establishing Article 1 in its original version and only that. Indeed, I wonder: why do we want to add a police measure to the judicial measure referred to in Article L. 611-3 of the CESEDA, which we are told is not applied? Let's be consistent and go to the end: let's remove it if it's not effective. The second amendment is to remove intrusive provisions on migration, family status and previous asylum applications. These provisions leave room for all interpretations, while the persons involved have often experienced painful and traumatic journeys. With such a mechanism, the most vulnerable will be punished, because this sanction will not only be administrative: it will be felt by those who have been victims of abuse as a reminder of their suffering. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on a few benches of the GDR group]] It is not forbidden to put a little humanity in a piece of legislation. That is the whole point of these amendments. I would like to associate myself with the statements made by the four previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u211	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u212	I must say that the various interventions that preceded me have made me particularly happy, not, as I have heard, because we would like, for political reasons, to break the governmental majority, but because, on these texts, it will be important to express ourselves in soul and conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u213	It's stinging!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u214	Clearly, the subject of our debates transcends the various sensitivities that are expressed on every bench, and I am particularly pleased with it. I have heard that we need a legal framework to fill the gap that leaves the dubious in an unsatisfactory situation. But when this legal framework, which is still hardened by the Senate, does not answer the problem, the least we could do would be to suspend the application of the provisions in question! In this regard, I will give two examples. First of all, with regard to the objective criteria for detention, the mere fact of talking about "significant risk" will obviously allow prefectures to process applications on the chain, without any individual analysis of the situation of asylum seekers being made.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u215	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u216	It's not a detail; On the contrary, it is absolutely fundamental. Secondly, today only 6% of the Dublin procedures are completed. One might think that it is because our State is not sufficiently police or militarized or, on the contrary, it is too flexible on this issue. We know that the explanation is not there and that, for a wide variety of reasons, this figure cannot be substantially improved, whatever the measures that will be taken. The problem is that, in the name of this figure, which cannot be improved, we are taking absolutely liberal measures against the rights of all foreigners who have arrived in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u217	Oh, no! It's shameful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u218	It's a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u219	For all these reasons, we will vote against Article 1e ret for certain amendments which will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u220	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u221	The Court of Cassation has pointed out a legal vacuum which we must fill with regard to the risk of flight which was not defined in the so-called Dublin procedure. The La République en marche group supports this article, which provides an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u222	Zealot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u223	If the Senate has made any amendments, they do not seem to us to be such as to unbalance this clause. Of course, we are not at the origin of these changes – we would otherwise have made them at first reading. However, in the context of our institutions, since changes made by the High Chamber seem acceptable to us, we believe that we can vote in accordance with this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u225	Although it is imperfect, we nevertheless feel it necessary to give the Government the means to enforce the Dublin Regulation. It is about our credibility vis-à-vis our fellow citizens, about the Community's functioning, but also about the rules of our national sovereignty and the regal subjects on which we are expected. For all these reasons, in my view, we must vote for this article as presented to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u226	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u227	I come back to some of the points that have been made during the discussion. I also welcome the various statements made by our colleagues, not by political calculation, but simply for their contribution to the interest of democratic debate in our House. In particular, our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky has called on us not to adopt a purely emotional attitude on these issues. Everyone, I think, can subscribe to this consideration, but everyone should also subscribe to this reality that the laws we vote have a direct involvement in people's lives. The law must not be blind to this reality. Several of our fellow law commissioners have visited administrative detention centres this week, and I will do so myself in the near future, to see what it means to detain individuals, men, women and children. In my view, we must take on this dimension. What makes the greatness of our assembly is to be in tune with these realities and to be an institution that reflects the concern for ethics, morals and feelings as well, especially when it comes to the sense of solidarity and humanity that is expressed in society. A second aspect was also mentioned: this philosophical, ideological and emotional dimension is not contradictory with a rational and reasoned vision. Despite all the statements made by the minister, the rapporteur and other colleagues, the reality lies on the side of those who oppose this article. The reality is, I repeat, that the Dublin regulations cannot be fully implemented, because this would require the implementation of economic and financial resources, but also ideological and philosophical, which no State in Europe can now assume. It is this reality that we must assume today by saying that these regulations must be suspended and that we must take the time to improve procedures at European level. If we have the will, we have the means to do so. It is for all these reasons that we call for voting against Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u229	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u230	On all sides I hear voices of a need for humanity. I hear it, I understand it, I subscribe to it. The discussion of this draft law at first reading allowed us to introduce additional guarantees for asylum seekers, in particular as regards the length of detention, which must be as short as possible, the consideration of the state of vulnerability and the obligation to inform. Today, these guarantees are not called into question. I also hear that the Dublin regulation is not satisfactory. There are several of us who have spoken to confirm this. But let us not tell us stories, we are not going to question all European law today. If we, as representatives of the nation, are unable to implement this regulation, what credibility do we have vis-à-vis our citizens and vis-à-vis the other Member States of the European Union? We must assume this responsibility, knowing that we are going to begin the discussion of a bill in which all the guarantees of humanity, with a view to improving the application of the right of asylum, will be discussed and taken. We'll have time to discuss it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Today, in haste and with the illusion of being able to push all European law, we commit, in my view, our credibility as leaders of a Member State of the European Union. That is why it is important to keep this text purely operational, while at the same time affirming together how vigilant we will be when considering the bill "asylum, immigration, integration", as well as to vote on this section 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u232	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u233	We have talked a lot about humanity and it is a good thing that in terms of asylum, we are talking about human beings. We can also talk about geography and how to get into Europe. Life wants migrants to come from the South rather than the Mediterranean or Turkey when they can avoid taking the boat. It's a must-have reality. If you consider that by applying Dublin III and returning to the countries of origin...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u234	To the countries of arrival!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u235	... to the countries of arrival – in time for me – we are in our place as countries of human rights in the concert of European countries, I cannot agree with you. Geography wants the first countries now affected to be Italy and Greece; It is therefore to these countries that we are going to return. If the subject was not so serious and did not call into question human beings who come to us to seek asylum because of their experience, I would propose to include in the law the possibility for them to benefit from airline tickets for the country in which they would like to apply for asylum. Therefore, perhaps not all of them would come to France, Italy or Greece. Perhaps they would choose Sweden or other countries. But geography and misery make it happen anyway. That is why Dublin III is not applicable. We do not say so to upset the rapporteur who tabled the bill. We are proposing, as other colleagues have already done, tolerance, until French law has better to propose than Dublin III.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u236	What are you proposing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u237	So where do we put them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u238	Do we leave them on the street?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u239	Above all, we do not want the application of inhumane legislation. We want tolerance, while waiting to build a better law that respects human rights in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u240	What about the legal vacuum?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u241	Even though there would be a legal vacuum! It has been in existence for a few months, and it may continue for a few more months, as long as we resolve this issue. Above all, we do not want the application of Dublin III, which is contrary to our European philosophy, since all countries must have a responsibility in welcoming migrants, especially refugees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u242	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u243	I will defend an amendment earlier to delete some of the Senate's additions. Why? I understand the pragmatic will of the Government to move quickly to fill the legal vacuum. However, it seems to me that by moving quickly, we run the risk of recreating possibilities for litigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u244	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u245	In view of the painful situations of asylum-seekers today, it is hoped that they will receive prompt and humane treatment. It's enough that they had to cross the Mediterranean in a barely floating raft. However, we are trying to resolve a question by adding, in my view, a blur that will create litigation. All the hearings we have conducted, all the meetings we have had with the actors in the right of asylum have shown that the procedure is now working fairly well on the basis of the declaration allowing us to seize OFPRA – I know that we are talking about the dublinés, but all these issues are related – and up to the CNDA. This block works well. Do not function the front block, that of the arrival of applications in prefecture which is a real problem, and the next block, that of litigation and constant recourses. However, I believe that we offer lawyers an additional opportunity for litigation. What's going to happen? Some lawyers will not fail to consider that, in the period that separates us from the moment when, I know, my dear friends, we will return to the text, the people concerned will not have had normal legal treatment. And all this will end up before the European Court of Human Rights. Quite simply!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u246	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u247	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u248	Einstein said: "Insanity is always to do the same thing and to expect a different result. It seems to me that Dublin III is returning to Dublin II and Dublin I. To do Dublin over and over again, we will not have saved the Republic or Europe, let alone those women and men who come to France to find humanity and, above all, solidarity. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and FI groups]] Today we must have the courage to show solidarity, not by uttering incantations, but by making a commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u249	Mr Manuel Valls has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u250	Since everyone bears witness to humanity, I have seen, every time I went to Calais, as a member of Parliament or as a member of the Government, the general distress. I saw the plight of the refugees, who had risked death to get there and who were ready to risk it again to cross the Channel. I have also seen the commitment of associations and non-governmental organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u251	What about the people of Calais?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u252	I have also seen, and should not be forgotten, the distress of the law enforcement forces facing very difficult situations. A few days ago, the Minister of the Interior visited the area after the use of firearms causing serious injuries. And then I saw elected officials and people, especially those in Calais and Calais, who were also in great difficulty. It is often the inhabitants themselves who are experiencing difficulties. Faced with this, beyond the calls to humanity and the commitments of everyone, well normal on such a serious subject, what must the legislator do? Bridging legal gaps and ensuring that laws are enforced. We also know that, on this subject, the application of the law is one of the problems, particularly with regard to those who are called dubunaes or those who have been denied the right to asylum. In general, as Éric Ciotti pointed out, for many years the public authorities have been facing a real difficulty, which is the return to the border of those who have rejected the right to asylum or those who are in an irregular situation in the national territory. This is a debate that we will have at the time of consideration of the bill that the Minister of the Interior will come to defend in this House. In the meantime, it would be a mistake not to respond to the injunction of the Court of Cassation as to the need to fill this legal gap. If we both find that we are facing a very large problem, firstly for humanitarian reasons but also for legal reasons, as well as for efficiency, the duty of this House is to vote on this bill and to prepare for the next debate. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Consciousness and commitment are beautiful things, but here no one has a lesson to learn in this field: what we have to do is to vote the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u254	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u255	It is a bit frustrating to intervene after Manuel Valls, but at least it will prevent me from repeating certain things, which I wanted to indicate at the stage of the debate, on a subject which is not totally ours. I would like to point out that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of this article. I consider it necessary to do so, as an amendment is tabled by a member of our group; This amendment is not supported by the group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u256	We didn't have to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u257	Here? The majority is cracking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u258	You'd like that to happen, but that's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u259	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u260	We believe that the Senate's drafting is an improved version of the text. On the other hand, we are in favour of the amendment on deadlines. However, in order to avoid ambiguity, I wanted to recall my group's position on the general scheme of the text. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] As far as legal considerations are concerned, which are not exclusive to humanitarian considerations, ladies and gentlemen, we are all sensitive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u261	We come to the amendments to the article. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 33, to delete the article. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u262	Since the beginning of the examination of this bill, we have called for the deletion of Article 1 because we consider that the principle of proportionality laid down by the European Regulation of 26 June 2013 is not respected. The current drafting would result in preventive detention for almost all foreigners seeking asylum. That is why we insist on requesting the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u263	I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u264	As we said in the general discussion, we strongly oppose this bill, which marks a further step in the normalization of the detention of foreigners, including minors, and a further violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of asylum seekers. As the Defender of Rights points out, this text represents a deplorable political turning point in respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. By creating a preventive detention, prior to any transfer decision, detention may not be based on a removal decision. A "comfort" detention is allowed, as long as the administration determines the State responsible for the asylum application. Detention could thus apply to a large number of persons who are subject to the Dublin procedure, which would lead to massive and disproportionate confinement. The aim of this reform is to implement the most restrictive measures in the Dublin Regulation on individual freedoms and fundamental rights of asylum seekers. It seeks to give its full effectiveness to an unjust and ineffective system. It is precisely this system that we are calling on to suspend and call into question. We are not the only ones; The Dublin Regulation is criticized by many actors: academics, rights defenders, non-governmental organisations, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. Let us be aware that if this text is adopted, persons in a regular situation may be deprived of their liberty in the absence of any expulsion order and, presumably, without expulsion being possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u265	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u266	Unfavorable opinion. Firstly, Article 1 is in full compliance with the Dublin Regulation. Secondly, it does not establish retention as a principle. On the contrary, detention will only be possible if the house arrest cannot be applied. Thirdly, paragraph 4 of the article makes it clear that detention can only be pronounced if it is proportionate. Fourthly, I must correct the falsehoods that have been said: France does not return any foreigners to Greece, because it considers that Greece is in systemic failure, because it fails to manage the asylum applications addressed to it. Those who wanted, I fear, to frighten colleagues by pretending that we were sending the applicants back to Greece have spoken a counter-truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u268	Unfavorable opinion, of course. Madam Member, honourable Member, your amendments are aimed at deleting Article 1. You consider that detention becomes preventive, before any transfer action is taken. The purpose of the bill is precisely to ensure that our legislation is in line with the Dublin III Regulation, which, under Article 28, allows for detention from the stage of determining the responsible State. It is therefore a matter of filling a legal gap. However, at first reading, your Assembly adopted an amendment to clarify that the article does not concern a bona fide asylum-seeker, who comes to the one-stop shop to submit his application, but is aimed at the person who is being questioned on the illegal highway or who has already applied for asylum in another Member State, and who can therefore be transferred there. The proliferation of secondary migratory movements, or "rebound flow", is a reality; You have to be aware of that. The administration must be able to implement the Dublin III Regulation effectively, respecting the rights and guarantees offered to foreigners subject to this procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u269	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u270	No, we can't let the misconceptions come true! Firstly, Madam Minister, the persons who come from Greece or Italy under the Dublin procedure are not persons who have applied for asylum strictlyo sensu and whose application has been examined in accordance with the Geneva Convention. According to OFPRA figures, 60% of them were just fingerprinting and photographing; There was no asylum application. So here, in France, there are people who are subject to the Dublin procedure, but who are not, in the sense that we hear it, rejected of the right to asylum. Secondly, you say that it is a matter of filling a legal vacuum. However, many Members have explained that the Dublin Regulation has not worked. When something doesn't work, you have to know how to stop it! In fact, the rapporteur contradicted you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u271	[[Smile]] Oh, no! That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u272	He said we were not sending people back to Greece. This is what we keep saying: in reality, very few people who are subject to the Dublin procedure are returned somewhere, because the conditions for doing so are rarely met, for many reasons. Thirdly, it cannot be said that the text must be adopted and that the debate will be reopened later, at the time of consideration of the asylum and immigration bill. If the persons subject to the Dublin procedure are to be detained if they present a "significant risk of leakage", i.e., in practice in a quasi-automatic manner, the second stage of the rocket, it will be the tightening of the conditions of detention. What we are going to vote today is actually a preamble to the future bill. This vote will therefore be important, and that is why we support the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u273	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u274	Mr Coquerel, the most numerous asylum seekers in France, are Albanians! Also, remember that we are a nation that receives many "rebound flows." Our colleague from the New Left claims that we are going to introduce custodial measures, but that is not true: these measures are already included in positive law. You belonged to the previous majority, Mrs. Karamanli, and it turns out I belonged to it, too. In the course of this legislature, the law of July 2015 and the law of March 2016 were adopted in particular; At no time during the examination of these texts have you called into question the principle of administrative detention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u275	The difference between us is that I say stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u276	We are now in a state of continuity with the provisions that were made at the time, except that we are filling a legal vacuum that had not appeared during the previous parliamentary term. We continue to give priority to house arrest, where possible, and administrative detention is used in the absence of a better solution. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] What I would like to say to you, dear colleague, is that we must never change our speech after we are in the opposition or in the majority: it is a question of credibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u277	He's in a bad position to give lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u278	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 7, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u279	This amendment will no doubt help to resolute a fairly fractured majority. Through him, I wish to open the debate on what weakens our remoteness mechanism. As our colleague Boudié has just pointed out, since the laws of 2015 and 2016, the principle of house arrest has become the rule, to the detriment of administrative detention. The consequences have been seen, and this text attempts to mitigate the most serious effects. Only 5 % of those affected by the Dublin procedure and, according to the Court of Auditors figures, 5 % of those rejected are indeed distant. The cause of all this: a form of naivety, introduced by the previous majority, which made house arrest the basic principle. House arrest leaves those in an irregular situation the freedom to leave the national territory without any means of coercion. Of course, these provisions have no effect on removal policies. Even if this is not the purpose of this bill, we need to change our perspective – we will be debating it at length when we look at the immigration bill. Administrative detention must be placed at the heart of the removal devices. Deportation is not an inhumane principle; it is governed by the law of the Republic. There are now foreigners in an irregular situation; It must be said loud and clear that they do not have their place in the national territory, because the laws of the Republic have been flouted. They must therefore be removed, in a fair and humane manner, to their country of origin, especially when they have lost the fundamental principle of asylum. Asylum applications have now become a legal principle for illegal immigration: this situation cannot continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u281	Unfavorable opinion: this amendment is very slightly excessive... To adopt it, ladies and gentlemen, would be to detain everyone. And a foreigner would be detained by accusing him of not leaving France for a country that is not yet defined: that seems difficult to defend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u283	Unfavorable notice too. Your amendment, Mr Ciotti, seeks to ensure that any foreigner who is the subject of a transfer decision can be detained. However, Article 28 of the Dublin Regulation allows, in paragraph 2, the detention of a person only to the extent that there is a significant risk of leakage. Perhaps you are right to say that this will open the eyes of some of the Members who have spoken before: this shows that we remain well within a framework that protects the people who are the subject of a Dublin procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u284	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u285	Consideration of Eric Ciotti's amendment, which I have co-signed, will allow me to speak on the matter. First of all, I would like to tell colleagues that humanity is something that is shared. It is not because we are tabling amendments that we do not deal with all people, that they come to us clandestinely or that they have been there for a long time. Allow me to have a thought for the people who are at the border with Italy, as well as for those who live next to Calais and who suffer; We cannot consider that what is happening in the jungles, near the Italian border or in the district of La Chapelle-Pajol in Paris is humanly bearable, whether for residents or for people living in unworthy conditions. Such a situation cannot continue. I would also like to recall that 262000 residence permits were issued, the equivalent, in number of inhabitants, of the city of Bordeaux. It cannot therefore be said that France is failing in its duty of hospitality and humanity. In addition, 400,000 people are in an irregular situation. The figures have just been recalled: only 5% of those denied asylum are far away. In the name of respect for our laws and asylum, this French treasure, it seems to me important to ensure respect for the expulsion, this other principle of the Republic, and to stop devoking asylum. Yesterday, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we received the Director of OFPRA and discussed all these issues in detail with him. By voting on lax laws, we are promoting trafficking in human beings, which, I would remind you, amounts to 32 billion euros, and illegal marriages themselves are being negotiated, in order to enable those concerned to acquire French nationality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Boyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u287	By letting the law drift, we promote these traffickings. Our amendment would make it possible to remedy this in part.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u288	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u289	I want to reply to Mr Ciotti, who was already rubbing his hands at the idea of a fracture within our majority and, not without a certain ambition, was already flying to reduce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u290	We're just watching!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u291	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It is true that it would be difficult to make such a fracture appear on your benches, given the few representatives who sit there today. This fracture, Mr. Ciotti, has no chance of appearing within us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u292	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u293	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] ... for a very simple reason: there is no member of our group to consider Senate additions to this text as appropriate. The majority of our group felt that it was necessary to fill a legal gap which has been the subject of numerous comments; He would also vote in favour of a compliant vote. The real political debate, Mr Ciotti, will take place during the examination of the major bill on asylum and immigration, which is currently being prepared.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u294	"We're against it, but we're going to vote for it! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u295	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] Not at all, my dear colleague. Some points of view can be expressed, but the big issue is this: to ensure that the subject of immigration escapes political recovery, the language of wood and hypocrisy. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that there is no thickness of a piece of cigarette paper between the members of our group. The ethics that drive us will not leave us when, for two or three months, this subject will be at the heart of the French political debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u296	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u297	I would like to reply to Mr Ciotti on his amendment and to the colleague of the Republicans who supported him, with regard to the need to respect the law. There is a department in which the law is absolutely not respected: the Alpes-Maritimes. No application for asylum can be made there. In this department, minors – since, I would remind you, it is the departments that are responsible for them – are sent back daily, in violation of all the provisions of international law, on trains to Italy. Foreigners are sent to informal detention centres, to Menton Railway Station or to the borders of Menton, in the sight and knowledge of all, and remain there beyond the authorized period. Finally, the people who support these migrants are criminalized to the extreme, especially in the Roya Valley – and I'm not just talking about Cédric Herrou. On the issue of migrants, therefore, there are areas outside the rule of law in our country. That is why I asked for a parliamentary committee of inquiry on this subject, which I think is particularly serious. I hope, Mr. Le Gendre, that we could avoid falling into political postures, which would accuse anyone who makes a different voice heard of wanting to create a fracture in your group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u298	What if we go back to the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u299	That is why the provisions of a particular bill will have to be considered in practice, without sheltering behind statements of principle or, indeed, posture. In any event, we will of course vote against the amendment tabled by Mr Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u300	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u301	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I will not go back to Mr Le Gendre's remarks: our discussions on the asylum and immigration bill will be very lengthy; We'll see, then, whether your majority remains united or not. That's not the problem. We will examine what the Government is proposing, and everyone will decide accordingly. For our part, we plead for a radical change in migration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u302	That's what we got!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u303	Except there's three of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u304	With 262,000 residence permits granted in 2017, you have had the record since you came to power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u305	And we're proud of it! Do you have any idea of the context in Europe?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u306	You may be glad, but we will continue to defend our positions. As for your comments on the Alpes-Maritimes, Mr Coquerel, I hope that the minister will respond, because you have just seriously challenged the authorities of the Republic and the prefect of this department. We are in the rule of law, so I cannot accept the comments you have just made against those who are in charge of the enforcement of our laws, especially the border police, who are doing remarkable work. In the Alpes-Maritimes, there have been 49000 non-admissions, as we have been, since the attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris, in a framework derogating from the Schengen Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u307	No asylum application is possible in the Alpes-Maritimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u308	Let's vote for the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u309	Thank you, Mr. Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u310	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] This framework allows for the non-admission procedure, including for minors. It is the State that has responsibility for this issue, therefore the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u311	Let's move on to the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u312	[[Same movements]] I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will be committed to defending the state services against the very serious accusations that have been made against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u314	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u315	It is not a question of deleting the article, but of restricting detention to the sole case where the asylum-seeker has been notified of the transfer decision. The measure, thus very limited, corresponds well to reality. At an earlier stage of the proceedings, retention is not desirable. My former comrade – and always a colleague – It seems to me that Boudie can only agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u317	Unfavorable. According to the final words of his summary statement, this amendment wants to comply "with the letter and spirit of the European regulation"; But article 1 is! It is the European regulation that allows detention. I would add that the migration situation is not the same as in 2015.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u320	Disadvantaged too. If France did not adopt the measure we are defending, Mrs Karamanli, it would expose itself to being the only Member State of the European Union not having a regime of constraint to ensure the preparation of Dublin transfers. In the context of a migration crisis that we have been experiencing for the past two years, this prospect is really not reasonable. Unfavorable opinion, therefore. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Following the previous discussion, I would add that the rule of law is fully applicable throughout France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u322	Let's check it out with my proposal for a committee of inquiry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u323	I have before me three amendments, Nos 8, 28 and 2, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u324	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] I would like to express my gratitude to the Minister, who has just recalled, even in very measured terms, that we are in the rule of law, and that the Government is in charge of respecting the laws of the Republic. Don't be displeased, Mr.Coquerel, it is the laws of the Republic, and those who violate them – especially those you defend – have been condemned on several occasions by the courts of the Republic. I want to pay tribute to those who, under very difficult conditions, enforce these laws: it is their honour and their duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u325	It's not the police that's involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u326	This amendment is in retrospect. The rapporteur has clarified the outline of the system which provides for detention in the event of a significant risk of leakage; by this amendment, I propose to extend the criteria so that detention can be made possible to prevent "any risk" of leakage. Again, this is a principle of reality: if detention is renounced, it must be made very clear that any removal procedure is abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u327	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u328	This amendment tends to delete the words "not negligible" in the first sentence of paragraph 4. Indeed, the notion of "risk of leakage" must be strictly understood. Elements of the response are contained in a recent report of the National Institute for Demographic Studies. As you can see, for a large part of them, asylum seekers whose applications have been rejected are finally admitted, to wear and tear, if I may say so, for a completely different reason. From this study conducted between 2010 and 2016, it appears that asylum seekers are granted residence permits on family grounds more often than in the context of refugee protection. The researchers even go so far as to note that admissions to the stay increase with the time spent on French territory. Even more, and without a language of wood, they recognize that the asylum procedure is one of the ways of professional and family immigration in France. We are therefore far from the official criteria for asylum seekers. And let's not be naive: the right strings are always used. So we have to be very careful about the risk of flight. In its October 2015 report, I would point out that the Court of Auditors estimates that 96% of those rejected remain in the national territory. It is time to take this question in arms-to-body.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u329	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u330	This amendment is not entirely in line with the previous two. It is intended to give the Prefects full discretion over the detention of asylum seekers who are subject to a Dublin procedure, by replacing the word "substantial" with the words "not negligible". With the latter, prefects were prevented from making an informed decision, and the detention of asylum seekers was almost automatic. By this withdrawal amendment, we therefore propose to leave the prefects their free will as to the decision to place an asylum-seeker in detention or to leave him at liberty. Our prefects, I believe, are sufficiently qualified, professional, dedicated to public service and respectful of the rule of law so that we can trust them in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u332	These amendments are "invoking". We are here to enforce Article 28 of the Dublin Regulation, under which we have to define the concept of "significant risk". To change this concept, the French Government would have to negotiate a new settlement with its European partners! Let me read an excerpt from the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 7 February 2013: "While Member States may place asylum seekers in administrative detention in order to guarantee transfer procedures in accordance with Regulation [...] of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 where there is a significant risk of their flight, it is on the condition that the risk of flight is based on objective criteria defined by law; that in the absence of the said criteria defined by a provision of domestic law" – which is the situation until our vote this evening – "detention must be declared illegal; by confirming Mr T.'s continued administrative detention pending a decision on the application by the authorities responsible for examining his application for asylum lodged with the Bulgarian, Swedish, Danish and Dutch authorities, when the French legislature did not, however, define the objective criteria for the risk of flight justifying such an administrative detention under the Dublin III Regulation, thereby making the detention order unlawful." Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to see such arrests in my country any more. We must therefore reject these amendments and vote on Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u334	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u335	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u336	Beyond the legal arguments of our rapporteur, our colleague from the Unsubmissed France Group has made an amazing parallel, while claiming to want to reintroduce free will. In this case, if I judge by the wording of your amendment, Mr Lachaud, this free will would be arbitrary. That is why the extreme right and Mr Ciotti join together, to ensure that it is all risks that can be the subject of administrative detention. Be careful, Mr. Lachaud, not to go in a way entirely contrary to the one you claim to defend! Mr Ciotti, as you said, this amendment is basically an amendment of withdrawal. You want to make retention the principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u337	You got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u338	As you stated in the general discussion, your principle is simple: it is to lock up first and then speak. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] We believe, for our part, that, in a rule of law, which is a host country and which must respect certain principles of humanity, we cannot first of all make retention the principle. If the conditions of removal so require, then detention is the last measure that can be taken. But it would certainly not be, dear colleague of the La France group, with the free will you call, because it would be a form of arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u339	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u340	What you have just said, my dear colleague, would be beautiful, if we did not have 5% remote people, only. I do not understand how, today, our German neighbours, who have included asylum in their constitutions, can have a much higher rate than ours. The risk of leakage should not be overlooked. We really need to make sure that we give up being the laughing stock of our European neighbours, with the non-application of our rules, and that the right to asylum ceases to be denied, if only out of respect for those who need it and who will satisfy the criteria. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that today all procedures are being bottled up by people who seek asylum without being concerned. You recalled earlier that the Albanians were the first to ask.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u341	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u342	Yes! At some point, the principle of reality must apply. Let's be more concrete! Let us give ourselves the means required by the difficulty we face.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u343	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u344	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Mr Boudie, I do not understand your argument. Honestly, speaking of a "not negligible" risk, unless everyone goes to detention, is just as arbitrary as a "substantial" risk, but at a higher level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u345	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u346	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u347	The aim of this amendment is to restore a manifest and serious unconstitutionality of the text. To think too much of the right of asylum as a community through the common European asylum system – RAEC – the French legislator has forgotten that French law provides for two types of right of asylum: the right of conventional asylum, referred to in Article 53(1) of the Constitution and the right of constitutional asylum, which appears in paragraph 4 of the preamble to the 1946 Constitution. These two rights are different in nature: one is part of the application of the 1951 Geneva Convention; the other, in the tradition of political asylum of France, which emerged from the Revolution of 1789. Recalling our commitment to welcoming all freedom fighters, the second is not only concerned, like the first, with protecting refugees in view of the serious threats to their lives, but is more a matter of political appreciation, since the preamble to the 1946 Constitution mentions the idea of persecution because of action in favour of freedom. This action in favour of freedom is the whole French concept of freedom and human rights. This distinction is important. Edward Snowden could, for example, be welcomed on this basis, not under the 1951 Geneva Convention. The aim of this amendment is to restore this possibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u349	Unfavorable opinion. Since it refers to the Constitution, we read the two paragraphs of Article 53-1, an article voted during the constitutional review of November 1993: "The Republic may conclude agreements with the European States which are bound by commitments identical to their own in the field of asylum and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, determining their respective competences for the examination of asylum applications submitted to them. "However, even if the application does not fall within their competence under these agreements, the authorities of the Republic always have the right to give asylum to any foreigner persecuted on account of his action in favour of freedom or who seeks the protection of France on another ground. » I would like to draw your attention to this second paragraph, ladies and gentlemen. There is a right; There's no automaticity. It is therefore Mr Coquerel's amendment that is contrary to the Constitution: I ask you to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u350	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u351	Paragraph 4 considers that an alien may be detained only to prevent a significant risk of leakage, on the basis of an individual assessment taking into account the vulnerability of the alien. All right. Let us be on the foreign side and consider its vulnerability, if you wish, but in this case, we should not forget the French. For them, we must also place ourselves on the side of those who can potentially suffer from this foreigner, who could have motivations other than humanitarians. That is why the agents, the prefects, must be able to take into account the dangerousness of the person concerned. We have to leave them that room for manoeuvre. [[Claims on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Admittedly, it is not very politically correct to consider that a foreigner may be potentially dangerous, but is that a reason enough for our legal arsenal to be silent in the face of this state of affairs? I would remind you that several participants in the attacks in Paris and Brussels have entered Europe by pretending to be refugees seeking asylum in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u352	You're scaring people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u353	You can cover your face, but it's a state of affairs, it's reality! It is therefore important that France be able to arm itself against such potentially dangerous individuals. The aim is to allow the agents who receive these people to possess legislative tools in order to work towards greater security for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u354	I already do! We didn't wait for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u356	Unfavorable opinion. France has anti-terrorism legislation designed, constructed and worked to be the most effective. This is not the subject of our debates. Today, we are debating the right to asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u357	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u358	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u359	The indices which establish the significant risk of leakage, listed in Article 1, are indeed relevant but incomplete. For this reason, you add the words "except in special circumstances", which can be used to supplement or derogate from this list. But how will these famous special circumstances be appreciated? In concreteo, will they be limited or will they become a second list of criteria established by the judge? No one knows. In order to prevent these particular circumstances from being interpreted too restrictively, I propose to delete the phrase, which may suggest that there are few situations that have not been considered. It seems to me that it would be appropriate to exercise a little more prudence and to relax this article, so that neither the administration nor the judge of freedoms will ultimately be caught up in too restrictive evidence. A greater margin of appreciation therefore seems to me to be appropriate. Intimate conviction, for example, this central notion of our criminal law can be a valuable tool, particularly with regard to detention. Other practical means should also be available. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The right of asylum, I repeat, is a force for France. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u360	It doesn't look like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u361	Nor should this prevent us from being extremely attentive to the motivations and behaviour of those who seek to benefit from it, for what makes our democracy great can also make it weak. This is what happened in Germany in 2015, where a third of Syrian refugees were not in reality, as the German Minister of the Interior himself noted. The fears of our fellow citizens are legitimate. Let's try to reassure them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u363	Unfavorable opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you seemed to doubt that we wanted to vote for a balanced text. You have the proof that we want it, because we have provided for twelve criteria and we have added "except in particular circumstances", because the prefect, and then the judge, must have a margin of manoeuvre, because human circumstances, of course, can always make people have to be taken into account. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] That is why we claim the mention "unless there are special circumstances".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u365	Unfavorable opinion. Madam Member, as the rapporteur has just said, your position would undermine people's rights, which is not acceptable. It would also put French law in conflict with European law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u366	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u367	The purpose of this amendment is to delete paragraph 9, which Senators have added to the text. The plan is to allow the prefecture to detain an alien subject to the Dublin regulations, who refuses to submit to the fingerprints or voluntarily alters them. To justify this addition, honourable senators felt that the one-year prison sentence, which was not applied frequently enough, was ineffective. Could a criminal circular not be sufficient to apply that provision? If the text that we voted in early December seemed to be relatively balanced – the Government had at least expressed itself in this sense – we can question the meaning of this hardening by the Senate. I therefore expect clarification on this point. It is worth recalling that the bill passed by the House allowed for situations in which the person refused to submit to the Dublin procedure to be taken into account. It is thus possible, I would remind you, to detain a person who does not appear at the invitation of the administrative authority or who does not respond to requests for information, in particular. It seems to me that there is no legal vacuum there. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam Minister, for your guidance on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u369	Among those who seek asylum in France, there is a risk that some will disappear in nature, as soon as they know that the answer will be negative. Neither seen nor known, they then become foreigners in an irregular situation. The Dublin Regulation gives two means to the states: the first is to assign residents, so that the administration knows where they live if it has to notify them of a decision; The second is to detain them. This means that persons who, in the light of their past behaviour, pose a significant risk of leakage and disappearance, in order to impede the implementation of the text. The Senate has proposed to include in this category foreigners who refuse to submit to their fingerprints or voluntarily alter their fingerprints. Such behaviour is not a sign of great confidence, but, let us be clear, it does not prejudge whether or not the right to asylum is granted. The subparagraph simply states that, in the event that the person is denied the right to asylum, the State has the possibility of detaining him/her so that he/she may be removed. That's all it is. We can certainly discuss the limits. In this regard, I was very pleased with the text voted by the National Assembly. The added paragraph is not very shocking. As far as I am concerned, I will not invoke a conscience clause. In the general interest, of which most of us are convinced at this time that it is to have a text that applies, it seems to me that the correct vote in the text is still justified. That is why, Mrs Wonner, I will give an opinion against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u370	All right, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u372	The amendment tends to exclude from the criteria for assessing the significant risk of leakage the failure to comply with the fingerprinting obligations under the Eurodac Regulation. You would therefore like to return, Madam Member, to a provision that the Senate has introduced in the hope of sanctioning the worrying phenomenon of the increasing refusal of fingerprinting. I would like to point out that, contrary to what some may have believed, the Government naturally did not request this amendment in the Senate. The Government is, however, opposed to your amendment, not because it would be committed to this new provision, has not requested it, and therefore has no problem with its absence in the text, but because, as I recall, it is urgent to adopt this text. Indeed, we are facing strong pressure from secondary migration flows within the European Union. These flows are fed by the large number of rejected people in the European Union since 2015. They are 500,000 in Germany, of which 230,000 in 2017. Since removal policies are not fully effective, many of these rejected candidates remain in the Schengen area and are likely to return to their chances in France. Dublin does not prohibit the filing of a new asylum application in another Member State, which becomes responsible for it after a certain period of time – six months in principle. In the absence of application of this regulation, we would have to examine the asylum application of rejected persons from our neighbours, which would have a major impact on our accommodation arrangements – even if, as you know, we have developed them – our time frame for processing the asylum application, or even the effective protection of those who have fled war theatres or persecutions. All this for those rejected elsewhere in the Union, especially in Germany – and who can suspect that Germany is not sufficiently protective? You will tell me that this is the result of an imperfection of the Dublin Regulation. That is correct, and that is why France, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, has made a strong commitment to the revision of this regulation. This revision is intended to increase the responsibility of each State for asylum seekers who fall within its competence, as well as to improve the solidarity mechanisms within the European Union, so as not to place the entire burden on the countries of first entry. I assure you that the President of the Republic and the entire Government, in particular the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, are determined to do so. In the meantime, we cannot remain in the current situation, in which secondary flows congest our already very busy devices, to the detriment of the protection of those who need it most. In the short term, the effective application of the current system is the only way to respond to this situation. That is why we need to be able to carry out these transfers and, in order to do so, to place people in detention when they pose a significant risk of leakage. It is this urgency that justifies the Government asking you to withdraw your amendment, so that the text can be adopted very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u373	Do you withdraw your amendment, Mrs. Wonner?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u374	Mr rapporteur, you said that you were happy after the first reading. I wish I had contributed more to your happiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u375	[[Smile]] That's a great program, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u376	As for you, minister, I hear that you did not ask for any addition. It turns out that the honourable senators have added a paragraph, which seems superfate. I have heard your explanations and the commitment of the Government; Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u377	Do you maintain or withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u378	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u379	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u380	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u381	I repeat the amendment. I listened very carefully to your answer, minister. It seems to mean that some of the elements of this bill raise questions and that you may revisit these provisions in the coming text. I'd like you to answer me, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u382	The Government has spoken!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u383	If the amendment is accepted, there is no need to debate it again and I shall put it to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u384	There's no more debate! You're right, Madam Chair: Let's vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u385	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1143.u386	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, at second reading, of the draft law allowing for the proper application of the European asylum system; Discussion, at second reading, of the bill ratifying Order No. 2016-131 of 10 February 2016 reforming contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations. The meeting is adjourned.
