ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u1	The next item is the question of the Government's policy on judicial and prison organization. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. We begin with questions from the Republican Group. Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u2	I associate myself with this question, Émilie Bonnivard, Member of Parliament for Savoie. Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, I would like to ask you about the future of the courts of appeal and the courts of major jurisdiction, and more specifically about the maintenance of these courts in Chambéry and Albertville. Under the cover of the Raimbourg-Houillon report, drawn up within the framework of the "roads of justice", you are about to engage the judicial institution in a reform whose first victims are the people living in rural areas. According to the information available to us, the Chambéry Court of Appeal would indeed be transformed into a territorial court of appeal, deprived of some of its prerogatives, and the Albertville High Court, whose powers would also be diminished, into a local court. In addition, both entities would lose their respective heads of jurisdiction and would be placed under the supervision of a higher court, which would not facilitate their day-to-day management. On 15 February, legal professionals mobilized to denounce this aspect of the reform that you are planning to undertake. These courts, which are close to the citizen and facilitate access to the law, have in recent decades developed competences in tourism planning and mountain law. I ask you to confirm not only the territorial location but also the current competencies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, they have proved their effectiveness, since the time taken to process cases is shorter than that found in higher courts. Finally, I ask you to respect the Treaty of attachment of Savoy to France of 24 March 1860, which provides for the maintenance in Chambéry of a court of appeal of full exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u3	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u4	Your question, Mr President, invites me to answer by addressing the methodology and the objectives of the reform that we wish to pursue. As far as the objectives are concerned, I agree with you: our primary concern is very much focused on those who are litigants, not on a system of which our administration would be part. The litigants first! That is why we deeply hope that all the courts of appeal – there are more than 300 of them in France – will be maintained, because they are the ones who judge the disputes of everyday life. It is these – and other jurisdictions you have mentioned – that our fellow citizens are closest. As far as methodology is concerned, nothing is decided. We initiated a consultation process, which was not the case during the previous reform, followed by consultation. As I speak to you, ladies and gentlemen, we are barely completing the first phase of consultation. No immediate decision will therefore be taken; They will come later. We will then enter into a second phase of consultation. With regard to the territorial adaptation of judicial structures, which is only one of the five projects we have worked on, a dialogue phase will take place in the territories, involving their national and local elected representatives, as well as the heads of jurisdiction and the prefects, with a view to determining how the principles agreed at national level can be properly applied in each of them. Thus, nothing is decided and everything remains to be built in consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u5	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u6	Madam Keeper of the Seals, since the 16th century, the sovereignty of a State has been defined by its sovereign powers, first and foremost justice. This one, you know better than anyone else, is a guarantee of the proper functioning of our society. Without justice, we would return to a time when the law of the talion reigns supreme. However, in order for our justice to function, it must be respected. Citizens must be able to have unwavering confidence in this essential institution. Justice, thanks to its judges, not only regulates the social body, but it protects our most fundamental freedoms. A State must never abandon its judicial institution, which must neither lack resources nor allow judicial deserts to form. Moreover, a State must never dehumanize justice by removing it from the population by excessive dematerialization of procedures. On both points, France has been in deficit for decades. It is now up to you, Madam Minister, to remedy this by refraining from disposing of your predecessors. I will not recall the rank of our country in Europe, which you know. In terms of the resources allocated by our society to justice, we are very poorly classified. For example, we are the twenty-fourth country in the European Union out of twenty-eight with regard to the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Of course, you have increased the budget of justice for this year, but is that enough? Is the EUR 260 million increase sufficient, as we succeed in finding billions to compensate for the abolition of local taxes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u7	And ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u8	I would also like to draw your attention to the dematerialization of judicial proceedings. Be careful not to go too far in this matter, this could dehumanize justice! Finally, let me have a thought for the officers of our prison administration, who are trying to survive with the few means we give them. Madam Keeper of the Seals, what do you intend to do to strengthen our justice and give it the means to exercise itself in good conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u9	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u10	You mentioned the 16th century and Bodin, who formulated at the time the great laws of the Republic and laid down the notions of sovereignty and principle. Justice is indeed an asset of our democracy, an asset of trust for our citizens; I share your analysis on this point. To that end, you say, justice must be respected. I agree. To be respected, it must be made effective, transparent and expeditious. These are, very simply and very pragmatically, the aspects of our justice that I would like to improve, for the benefit of the people in need. You mention the European figures and a ranking that would be very unfavourable to us. I do not dispute these figures; I'm just observing that they've been singularly improved this year. We are now 14th out of 28 countries in the European Union, devoting €75 per inhabitant to the financing of our justice system, which shows a very favourable slope in the European ranking to which you have alluded. You also mentioned the need not to dehumanize justice. I fully share your opinion. When I speak of the need to digitise justice, that is to say, to meet the demands that we have to meet in practice, I would also point out that this development must be accompanied by people who, in each single reception service of the litigant, will inform our poorest citizens, who do not have access to the Internet or do not understand the digitisation of procedures. They'll find people to answer them. This is a major challenge for citizens' access to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u11	Like in the prefectures, but it doesn't work too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u12	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u13	Madam Keeper of the Seals, the avenues for reflection explored by the "works of justice" which you have taken the initiative are considering a reform of the judicial map, including a departmentalization of the courts of major jurisdiction. We learn that a draft law could be unveiled in the coming days, even though all the actors concerned want this reform to be part of an increased dialogue. This new overhaul of our judicial map would follow the rule of a judicial court per department, making courts of great instance remaining courts of proximity. This is a true judicial weightlessness cure that does not say its name, even though it is necessary, more than ever, to refocus the State's action in our country on its regalian missions! In addition to the quantitative aspects, the issue of the distribution of courts in the territory is inextricably linked to the issue of equal access for citizens to quality justice. Thus, a reform of the judicial map must be carried out in the interest of the justiciable and be based on two principles: the quality of justice and the reality of the territory. The issue of territorial networking is therefore of major importance. For example, the reform you are considering would lead, in my department of the Alpes-Maritimes, to a territorial imbalance as well as to major structural and administrative changes. In particular, the Grasse High Court would lose its autonomy vis-à-vis the Nice Court, while the two courts are comparable in terms of activity, size and population. This example clearly demonstrates that the organizational scheme you are presenting does not meet the requirements of quality of justice and of taking into account territorial specificities. It also raises concerns among elected officials and many actors in the judiciary, who fear the consolidation of courts and the pooling of already largely inadequate resources. Madam Keeper of the Seals, in view of the concern expressed by the actors of the judicial world, which is growing over the years, do you intend to postpone the reform purely and simply in order to allow time for a better and wider concertation? In addition, can you provide us with further information on the future of the Grasse High Court?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u14	[[At twenty-one forty-five hours, Mr. Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u15	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u16	Your question seems somewhat contradictory to me, Member: while asking me to postpone the reform, you are asking me what will become of the Grasse High Court! However, I will answer both questions, again referring to the methodology. I would like to reiterate before you, ladies and gentlemen, that the above-mentioned reports, including the one drawn up by Mr Houillon and Mr Raimbourg, are the result of a consultation. They have proposals, nothing else.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u17	They are no less worrying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u18	Decisions will be taken in some time after the first phase of consultation, which will be followed by a second phase on the adaptation of the network of courts. Nothing will be decided without consultation, bringing together, in each territory, all the partners concerned, the elected representatives, the presidents of the courts and the prefects. It's important to remind him. Finally, if I have read the Houillon-Raimbourg report correctly, I would like to point out to you, Mr President, that he is certainly proposing the possible conversion of certain courts of major jurisdiction into courts of law, but he is also saying that a department will be able to have one or even two or even three courts of law if demography and economic data so warrant. On this basis, I will draw up an initial architecture which we will then submit to local consultation, in order to determine very precisely how to put it in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u19	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u20	I should like, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to refer to the visit I made at the beginning of January, some eight days before the guard rumble, to the prison in Toulon - La Farlede, a facility you know about coming there last August. Following this visit, I wrote to you a letter summarizing the problems I had observed there. We are still debating and debating some of them in the Law Committee, whether they are prison overcrowding or problems related to psychiatry or jihadism. My question tonight is about training. It was my surprise to see that the workshops at this institution were at a standstill and the vocational trainings suspended, as well as the contracts assisted. The officials explained to me that, as a result of decentralization, training had been transferred from the state to the region – I did not know it and learned it on that occasion – and that the modalities of this transfer had fallen behind. As a result, all activities had been suspended in the region and probably in other regions. That there is no contempt, I am concerned not so much with the comfort of the prisoners as with their reintegration, to avoid recurrences after their release. I can understand the difficulties posed by such a transfer of jurisdiction, but the public service must be provided under the control and responsibility of the State, which has powers in this area. Madam Keeper of the Seals, what do you intend to do to finalize this matter of decentralization? When will the detainees concerned resume their activities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u21	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u22	Mr President, the monitoring of prisoners' journeys will be an important aspect of the judicial process in relation to the meaning and effectiveness of the sentence. It is one thing to impose appropriate penalties, which are quickly carried out, but it is another thing to follow the prisoner's path, to have the staff available for this purpose and, as part of this journey, to undertake actions that promote the reintegration of detained persons. The transfer of vocational training to the regions has sometimes led to infancy in some of them, particularly in the one you mentioned. While at the prison in Toulon - La Farlede, there are quite remarkable vocational training facilities, especially in the bakery or in the building sector, they were stopped when I visited the centre, because we were not sure that the region would extend its investment in this area. I understand, according to several interlocutors, that the President of the region has committed himself to financing these vocational training courses. In 2016, 19,000 prisoners benefited from nearly 2 million hours of vocational training. That, in my view, is, in fact, insufficient. We need to develop further the vocational training, work and activities of prisoners, because they are essential elements of their reintegration, elements that are part of the work that I want to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u23	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u24	Madam Keeper of the Seals, the reform of the judicial card is worrying. I have taken note of your comments on the courts of appeal: they no longer seem to be a problem. The same is not true of the courts of major jurisdiction, since the trend would be to a single court per department. In many departments, however, there are currently between two and four. In each of the Breton departments, there are two courts of great jurisdiction. The other problem that remains is that of the courts of appeal. We are very concerned because the report you have commissioned explicitly envisages matching the spring map of the appeal courts with that of the new regions. Such a measure would pose a substantive problem, since, at present, no jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal corresponds to a region. New regions have three or even four appellate courts, while a large number of appellate courts span several regions. This is the case with the Courts of Appeal of Rennes, Poitiers, Pau, Angers, Nimes, Grenoble, Dijon, Bourges or Versailles. What will happen to these appeal courts? I take the example of Brittany: forty-one parliamentarians, which is not nothing, have drawn your attention to this question, Madam Keeper of Seals. Currently the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal of Rennes corresponds exactly to historical Brittany, which covers five departments, the Loire-Atlantique accounting for 40% of the activity of the Court of Appeal of Rennes. To challenge the current organisation would be to question a history – this court of appeal is located within the Parliament of Brittany, which is not without meaning – and an ecosystem: the faculty of Rennes, which has the reputation that everyone knows, has developed around the court of appeal. Don't worry, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, and quickly, rather than raise concerns!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u25	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u26	Mr President, I will reassure you, since, I repeat, our only concern is the rightful one in the conduct of coherent public policies. Criminal policy is one of the public policies that we want to make consistent with other policies in which it must be integrated. When we conduct city policies or the republican reconquest of neighbourhoods, in some departments, it seems to me very important that a prosecutor be closely linked to these policies. It is often through a powerful criminal chain and a strengthened prosecutor's office that we will act within the framework of the reform that I wish to carry out with you. To answer you more precisely, the court is indeed the new name that Mr Raimbourg and Mr Houillon propose in their report in place of the court of main instance. As I have already pointed out in a previous reply, nowhere in this report is it specified that there would necessarily be only one judicial court per department. One can imagine, by working at the local level and taking into account the demographic and economic characteristics of the territories, that a department has not one but two or three courts of law. Harmonisation between the courts of appeal and the new administrative regions is indeed a proposal of the Raimbourg-Houillon report. As I speak to you, nothing is decided. We are very attentive to the singularity of the territories. The decisions, I repeat, will be taken in consultation with their elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u27	[[At twenty-one and fifty-five hours, Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u28	Mr Guy Teissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u29	Most recently, we have witnessed the painful conflict of prison overseers, the revolt and even the jacquery they have had to carry out in order to make their voices heard and to have their daily difficulties and suffering taken into account. Their daily difficulties, we know them, you and I: they are overcrowding, violence, lack of staff and the outdated prisons. It is in an atmosphere of extreme tension that these men and women perform their duty every day. To overcome this unprecedented crisis, you have taken steps, Madam seal keeper, in particular to ensure, in the face of the radicalization of some detainees, the safety of the overseers who carry out a profession that deserves our full consideration. You said you wanted to recruit. We know, however, that the places in the competition do not find themselves taken, for a very simple reason: if the candidates for the prison administration are rare, it is because the supervisors are poorly paid and are despised. This is both a necessary and sufficient reason, Madam Keeper of the Seals, for you to consider, in the near future, improving the function of overseer and making it more attractive. This upgrading also requires better training of supervisors, particularly in the area of radicalisation. They, who are in permanent contact with prisoners, are best placed to detect symptoms of radicalization. Their training should be closer to that provided in intelligence services. I have two proposals to make to you, one coercive, the other more liberal: could you consider reinstating, on the one hand, the minimum sentences, on the other hand, the work of general interest, especially for short sentences?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u30	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u31	Mr President, you have asked a number of questions, the objects of which are very different. You are right to point out the difficult attractiveness of the job of prison supervisor. We were already aware of this well before the recent social movement. This difficulty is also linked to the general situation of prisons, particularly the overcrowding, which you have pointed out, which can reach 200 per cent in some prisons. This is not a new situation: I am not complaining about it to anyone, I am content to notice it. The measures to strengthen the attractiveness of the profession, which we have taken in the memorandum of understanding signed by the majority trade union organization, are not negligible. I am thinking in particular of a powerful indemnification,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u32	Not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u33	... to which an envelope of 32 million euros is allocated. The prison allowance is increased from EUR 1000 to EUR 1400 per year and the allowance for Sundays and public holidays is increased from EUR 26 to EUR 36. The special hardship allowance is, for the first time, upgraded to that of the peacekeepers, not to mention the creation of a retention allowance for the overseers remaining in the same establishment. All these measures are not negligible, I repeat, but they will not be sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u34	We'd need a little strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u35	This is why the prison administration is working on the construction of attractive careers in terms of competition or opening up to new careers. Finally, I am opposed to floor sentences because I prefer the punishment of the initial sentence to the punishment of recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u37	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u38	In recent weeks, the staff of the French prisons, the keeper of the seals, have marked their anger and even despair. Bruno Studer and I were at Elsau prison in Strasbourg on the day the keys were deposited. We had a long exchange, more than two and a half hours, with the unions and the management. I have been able to see how strongly critical administrative procedures and procedural constraints are, because of their cumbersomeness, difficulty in implementation and the insecurity they can create. These criticisms are the same as those I heard when I met the police forces, their unions and, in particular, representatives of the Central Directorate of Public Security. These same procedural constraints, in the event of an inquiry, cause them to lose time and efficiency disproportionately. I am not an expert, but I have been able, by way of example, on many occasions to see the problem which is linked to the administrative constraints of the operational procedure. Madam Keeper of the Seals, rather than injecting administrative resources which will never be sufficient and which we may not have, does the solution not consist in a drastic simplification of some of these procedures, obviously with reasonable respect for the rights of the accused or the detainee? This would require a careful analysis of these procedures, including an analytical analysis of the costs they induce in terms of full-time equivalents. Could we not also draw inspiration from the practices of some European countries which have created real short circuits between police and magistrates, in order to facilitate quick decisions, sometimes even in partial oral proceedings or based on digital technologies? In short, should we not conduct a real lean management exercise, as it seems in some organizations, of operational overhaul, with process experts, in order to save time, efficiency and security in the daily life of the police and justice system?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u39	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u40	Mr President, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify two points. You said how complex and often unreadable the criminal procedure is. I fully agree with you. That is why the rapporteurs who have worked on this subject within the framework of the "workshops of justice" propose a recast of the Code of Criminal Procedure; This is a suggestion that I would like to follow if you also decide to go in that direction. Very concretely and very immediately, we worked with the Ministry of the Interior to simplify the criminal procedure throughout the entire phase of the investigation, the one to which you are referring precisely. We have also considered simplifying the procedure in the judicial phase, but on this subject the services of the Ministry of Justice have worked alone. As far as the investigation phase is concerned, therefore, we have worked a lot with the staff of the Ministry of the Interior to achieve much simpler processes, which I am not going to list here because they are quite technical and quite numerous. These changes make it possible to unlock certain practices to make them much more fluid between investigators and magistrates, while respecting our constitutional and treaty requirements for respect for human rights, which is absolutely essential to me. We will thus allow each of the actors to focus on their core business – investigators on their investigative work, and prosecutors on their work in monitoring the investigation. On the other hand, we will make things easier for the litigants, which is also absolutely essential, especially since we want to be a single digital file that will go from the complaint to the judgment – I do not give any more details on this point, because I do not have time for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u41	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u42	On 19 December, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I drew your attention to the problem of overcrowding in prisons and its effects on inmates and prison staff. Unfortunately, we were able to see that the crisis you experienced in January was quite acute.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u43	It's an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u44	Today, I would like to return to an issue that concerns not the daily life within prisons, but the lives of staff outside their institutions. When I visited Nanterre's prison on December 8, I was able to see that one of the main difficulties experienced by the agents was the search for accommodation, particularly in the Paris region. Most of them are assigned to institutions located far enough away from their place of residence; To follow the example of Nanterre's prison, I learned that a large part of the staff came from overseas. So you will easily understand the problem they are facing. This first difficulty is compounded by the large housing shortage in our region. My question relates to possible solutions to these problems. While the Housing Development and Digital Development Bill – the ELAN Act – will be presented to the Council of Ministers soon, what measures does the Government envisage to facilitate access to housing for public officials in general and prison supervisors in particular? Could it be possible to conclude an agreement with the HLM offices whose park is located in the vicinity of the prisons to allow officers to obtain priority social housing, particularly in the Franciscan departments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u45	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u46	Madam Member, you are asking a question that is absolutely essential to the attractiveness of the job of prison supervisor. You have clearly noted that a large number of overseers work in the Paris region, that they sometimes come from a very far distance and that the issue of housing is very important to them. Today, we have four types of solutions to accommodate them. We can first use the federal park located within or near certain prisons, especially in the Paris region. This is the case for the Fresnes prison, for example, which has housing opportunities. However, this offer is obviously made up of apartments that are often old and unsuitable for the needs of today's families; It has a high maintenance cost and is clearly insufficient. We also have, as you suggest, an HLM housing stock, which is under a deconcentrated management at the establishment level. Within this framework, there is an offer of 1300 units consisting of apartments and accommodation in a home or residence. I accept your suggestion that we may evolve in this area. We also have a "justice" housing stock, managed by the General Secretariat of our Ministry and made up of more than 1,700 housing units. Finally, temporary accommodation solutions are offered by the Aguesseau Foundation, which is linked to the Ministry of Justice and offers more than 200 housing units. This offer is clearly not sufficient, especially in the Paris region; We must therefore make a very unique effort in this area. This is why the Ministry of Justice's social budget was increased by more than 7% in 2018. We are fully aware that the problem of housing is a major handicap for staff who come to work in our prisons, particularly in the Île-de-France region. I remember, honourable Member, your suggestion for a slightly more specific agreement with the HLM companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u47	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u48	Madam seal keeper, we understand that nothing has been decided yet, but allow me to convey to you the concern of the practitioners within the jurisdiction of the Draguignan High Court and to try to argue for its continuation. Historically, Draguignan's TGI is home to the Var Assize Court. This allocation was decided in 1974, when the state transferred the Var de Draguignan prefecture to Toulon: word was then given that this strong place of justice would remain unharmed. In addition, Draguignan's TGI is twice as active as its neighbour in Toulon. Here we are a number of people who know that the curves of unemployment and delinquency are almost twin sisters. It is no wonder that this city, which is heavily affected by unemployment, has sustained judicial activity! I wish to support my defence of the maintenance of the TGI of Draguignan with a third argument: your services, Madam Keeper of the Seals, are looking for a second site for the establishment of a new prison in the district and the jurisdiction of the High Court of Draguignan. The city of Fréjus, of which I am elected, is one of the choices envisaged. It is ironic, moreover, that the National Front, which is absent this evening and is still calling for the construction of new prisons, refuses to allow this prison to be set up in Fréjus. For my part, I defend this option. With two prisons less than 20 kilometers from the courthouse, it would be surprising for everyone to learn the transfer of the TGI to Toulon, Grasse or I don't know where! Please, Madam Keeper of the Seals, try to reassure us by telling us that Draguignan's TGI will be well maintained as it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u49	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u50	Mr President, what must reassure us, you and I, is that we are aware that we are working together in the service of the litigants. In this regard, I repeat, we must preserve the proximity of justice and therefore the courts of appeal; Whatever name they will bear in the future, they will have to keep their skills for the small disputes of everyday life. What must reassure us is the effectiveness of justice. In any part of our territory, where there are courts today, the work of justice must continue to exist – and that is what will happen in every part of our territories where there are courts. What must reassure us is that we will have a powerful criminal chain. Indeed, a broken or too small prosecutor's office does not adequately meet the needs of our fellow citizens, whether in the area of criminal litigation management or public policy support. These principles lead us to rework our organisation a little, but this does not mean, Mr President, that in Draguignan or Toulon we will find solutions that are very different from what exists today. I said it just now and I repeat it before you: where necessary, we will maintain one, two or three courts or courts of great jurisdiction – no matter what name they will be given – by department. I think that is what we need to keep in mind. When, in some departments, the court will no longer function exactly the same way as it is today, be sure, honourable Member, that civil litigation and local criminal litigation will continue to be tried. That's what's important! That is what will bring us together and give us confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u51	It smells like closing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u52	You're doing it on purpose, Mr. Di Filippo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u53	We continue with the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u54	Madam Keeper of the Seals, like many of my colleagues, I visited the prison in my constituency and came back with very many questions. The prison of Le Havre, located in the commune of Saint-Aubin-Routot, is of recent construction. Unlike other institutions, it does not experience overcrowding – in any case, not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u55	Which city do you say?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u56	I have seen the strong involvement of management and staff, who unfortunately have not been able to cope with the shortage of recurrent staff, since the opening of the prison. Overtime doesn't solve everything. Staff spoke of a feeling of insecurity corroborated by various threats or attacks, the last of which, a few weeks ago, led to the hospitalization of two officers after an attack during the distribution of meals. What measures do you intend to take to encourage the recruitment of guards, to train them, to pay them with dignity and to accompany them? In our country, the cruel lack of prison places is doubly disastrous: for the dignity of the detainees, on the one hand, and for the harmful effect it has on the debate on the sentence, on the other. Since the promises made on the plans for the construction of prison places have not always been implemented, how do you intend to reassure the French in this area? What are you going to do about it? Beyond that, a great democratic country cannot simply build new prison places; It must also rethink the modalities of penalties, which must adapt to our society. Experiments have been tried in Canada, Germany or the Scandinavian countries, particularly in Denmark, where some of my colleagues were able to visit in early February and which could usefully inspire us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u57	We must not repeat all that Denmark is doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u58	Madam Keeper of the Seals, the phenomenon of radicalisation unfortunately affects all French prisons: it does not spare the prison of Le Havre. In the face of this phenomenon, the practice of regrouping, which leads to bringing together people with very disparate levels of anchoring in radicalisation, has been pinned by the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty. Identity behaviour is likely to increase and we must imagine solutions, probably multiple, depending on the degree of anchoring in radicalization. What are the solutions proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u59	[[Smile]] There should be a Prime Minister in Le Havre!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u60	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u61	Madam Member, contrary to what one of your colleagues said earlier, I did not suffer the crisis that the prisons went through some time ago: I managed it. It's not exactly the same! This crisis has indeed testified to the threefold problem that you have raised. First, a security issue. The first request of prison supervisors was to ensure their safety. In this regard, we have taken not only very concrete measures related to their equipment and procedures for accompanying detainees under certain circumstances – supervisors are now better equipped or in any case better protected – but also decisions concerning detainees who are Islamist terrorists or radicalised. As I have already had the opportunity to say, about 1,700 detainees are concerned: 500 Islamist terrorists and 1200 radicalised people. For these detainees, we proceed in two ways. As a first step, we assess their degree of danger. Then, depending on this degree of danger, they are placed, either in isolation or in neighbourhoods for violent prisoners – neighbourhoods that we have made a commitment to make waterproof to avoid any risk of proselytism – or, for those with low danger, in ordinary detention, some of whom may be subject to special follow-up. The other two issues concerned prison supervisors themselves: firstly, to increase the attractiveness of this profession through an increase in compensation and, secondly, to strengthen their authority in the performance of their duties and the role they have to play at the heart of the prison, in conjunction with other staff. On these three chapters we have tried to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u62	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u63	My question will be about a slightly different subject: the reform of the criminal procedure. It is true that all the topics mentioned are very closely related to each other, but the reform of the criminal procedure is a particularly important one. The reform concerns many actors, starting of course with the victims, to whom justice and information are to be given during the proceedings, or to those who must be guaranteed their rights, but it is of particular interest to these two categories of key actors in the criminal procedure, namely investigators and judges. The investigators we meet complain about very heavy administrative burdens, during the hearings, the police – the strengthening of the lawyer's presence, even if it is a very good thing, has considerably changed the work of the investigators, which we must take into account – and the procedures. In the case of a minor, for example, even if the entire procedure is recorded, the investigator still has to report everything in the report, which takes a long time. Modern technologies should make it possible to simplify all this. As for the judges, because of the texts that have piled up over time, making the procedure ever more complex, they have become more and more busy and in increasingly difficult conditions. Reform of the criminal procedure is therefore an essential reform. It will have to simplify the working conditions of the investigators and give them important technical and technological means – it is true that this concerns your colleague from the inside. Judges will also need to have the means, including information technology, to simplify procedures, with respect for the victims – to whom, as I said, justice is owed – and for those who are entitled to an efficient and timely procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u64	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u65	I said earlier: simplifying the criminal procedure is one of our projects. We have done a lot of work on this and will take steps that, without recasting the Code of Criminal Procedure, are truly pragmatic and aimed at simplifying the work of the various personnel involved in this procedure, whether they are investigators or magistrates. This will put an end to certain overabundant or unnecessary formalities, including a whole range of authorisations provided for in certain circumstances. We will develop new prerogatives for judicial police officers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u66	This has not been acted upon in the concertation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u67	... in a logic of greater confidence. We will facilitate the trial of cases and shorten the time limits, to the benefit of the litigant. This set of measures will allow us to simplify an extremely complex procedure. This very pragmatic first step will not prevent us from working further to rethink and rewrite the Code of Criminal Procedure, at least as part of a codification operation, to make it more readable and clearer for all the staff who use it. That is our ambition: pragmatic in the very short term, to rewrite the code of criminal procedure in the medium term.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u68	We come to the questions of the New Left Group. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u69	My question is about prison overcrowding and the means that need to be quickly implemented to limit its worsening and devastating effects on the prison world as a whole and on prisoners. There is an urgent need: in the Rhône-Alpes-Auvergne, a detention centre recently opened and allowing for individual confinement was fully displayed a few months after the completion of the work. Since then, the management of the establishment has ordered additional beds which will find their place in cells of 8 square meters. The construction of new prisons therefore does not exempt us from the need to manage the flow of incoming and outgoing prisoners, in a reasoned approach to the meaning of punishment. Two thirds of the sentence is increasingly referred to as forced release, unless the judge so decides. This solution has recently been defended before us by Dominique Raimbourg, one of the two referents of the report on the fourth project, relating to the adaptation of the network of courts. On the other hand, we have always denounced the dry exits, which are doomed to failure. Finally, recently, the management of the prison in Varennes-le-Grand told me its great difficulty in mobilising prisoners around a training programme, even though many useful proposals are made to them regularly, in connection with the region, which is embarking on this path. What do you think, Madam Keeper of the Seals, about the generalization of such a coercive release device to two thirds of the sentence, provided that you have fulfilled a qualifying training obligation? This same condition could be systematised, unless training is already acquired, for any early exit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u70	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u71	You are right, Member: prison overcrowding is a real difficulty, and even a form of indecency for the state. That is why we want to remedy it, starting with the creation of 15,000 additional prison places – in accordance with the proposal of the President of the Republic. However, this will not be enough. That is why I hope that we will have an ambitious criminal policy. The aim is to impose penalties that are truly adapted to the person the magistrates have before them: placement on an electronic bracelet, work of general interest – it was discussed earlier – or suspended with probation. This implies, in particular, that a personality survey can be carried out at an early stage. Perhaps we will also have to have the courage to consider that certain prison sentences prove ineffective or inappropriate, either because they are too short – sometimes less than a month – or because they are not accompanied by any follow-up of inmates. In this regard, we must ensure that dry exits are avoided, which are known to promote recidivism. From this point of view, the Cotte-Minkowski report contains very interesting proposals. I have been proposed to systematize two-thirds of the execution of sentences of up to five years' imprisonment under duress, unless there is a specific decision of the enforcement judge. This would improve the scheme provided for by the Act of 15 August 2014. This would give the convicted person the right to be released under duress by the judge, who will determine, after the advice of the Penal Enforcement Commission, the most appropriate accommodation measures. This measure seems to me to prevent recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u72	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u73	I would like to associate with my question all my colleagues in Parliament, all of whom are involved in changing the judicial map. On 15 January, Messrs. Raimbourg and Houillon gave you their report on the adaptation of the judicial card. They clearly propose reconfiguring the network of appellate courts, limiting the number of full-service appeal courts to one per administrative region, i.e. thirteen – except for exceptions. They would take the name of "regional court of appeal", the others becoming local branches, known as "territorial court of appeal". They would not have the full range of jurisdictional powers, nor would they have the autonomy of administrative management. As you know, the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal of Riom exactly matches the contours of the Auvergne region – without overlap – with four departments for more than 1.3 million inhabitants, thus meeting a real need for territorial balance. Its planned disappearance through its relegation to a territorial court of appeal would result in the creation of a vast judicial desert between Lyon and Bordeaux, a very great distance from the places of justice and thus a sharp deterioration of access to the law for our fellow citizens. Moreover, the Court of Appeal of Riom, beyond its historical character in many respects, has sustained and effective judicial activity, with very satisfactory results – for example, processing times below the national average. Both the judiciary and the public prosecutor deal on average with a number of cases well above the national average. In view of these elements and the many objective arguments that we have regularly transmitted to you, Riom and Auvergne deserve, I believe, a regional court of appeal, and we have proposals to make to you to further strengthen its activity, or even its geographical scope, with a view to the overall balance of the judicial map. We would like to be received to present our proposals. My colleague Bénédicte Peyrol has asked for a hearing on our behalf, Madam Keeper of the Seals. So my question is simple: are you going to hear our objective and responsible arguments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u75	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u76	As I have said on several occasions, Madam Commissioner, these are only proposals at this stage – in this case those contained in the Houillon-Raimbourg report. I would point out here that, contrary to what I heard earlier in Mr Di Filippo's mouth, there will be no closure, no more in Draguignan than in Riom or anywhere. You say that the Raimbourg-Houillon report advocates a regional court of appeal. However, it is clearly explained that there may be several appeal courts in some areas. That is what I have committed myself to before you, Madam Member, since I have already received you, and I am not used to going back to what I have said. There will be several courts of appeal in Auvergne, and that of Riom will be maintained with its jurisdiction. What we are trying to do is to organize things so that they work even better. This is one of the points which can be referred to regional consultation, as proposed in the Raimbourg-Houillon report. We simply say that, in a region where all appeal courts will be maintained, some could exercise more specialized skills than others, and that these specialized skills could be distributed among the different appeal courts. If I take the example of the Courts of Appeal of New Aquitaine, it seems to me that the Court of Appeal of Pau is better able than that of Limoges to deal with the litigation of mountain accidents and that the Court of Appeal of Bordeaux will be better able than that of Limoges still to deal with the maritime dispute. All these points will be subject to local consultation, even if the framing will be national, with the aim of improving the functioning of the justice system while ensuring the maintenance of the various courts of appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u77	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u78	For several months now, the Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals, has been consulting on judicial works, with the stated objectives of simplifying criminal and civil proceedings, improving the quality, readability, accessibility of justice and the effectiveness of sentences. All right! But of "consultation", there is only the name: many professional organisations of magistrates and civil servants denounce the untenable agenda and the degraded conditions under which the consultation takes place, denouncing the simplistic and oriented nature of the questionnaires addressed to the courts. You mentioned earlier the fact that JPOs could be given new tasks: this is an example of a focused question. The method has nothing to envy to the survey institutes. The process is actually led to forced march – as usual – and the proposals take no account of the reality of justice in France. While you are a so-called "expert" minister, you have managed to put yourself on the back of magistrates, judicial officials and lawyers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u80	... which, on 15 February, mobilized in a unitary way for quality justice. We can understand them, because French justice is in a pitiful state. With your government, France ranks twenty-third out of twenty-eight in the European Union for its budget allocated to justice: only 1.8% of the annual public budget, i.e. half as much as in Germany – an example dear to your government. The consequences of under-budgeting have long been denounced and the clocharding – as it should be called – of French justice leads to its dysfunction and, in some cases, to a denial of justice. Indeed, computer equipment is indigent, software obsolete or inadequate. As for the budget for legal aid, it is very insufficient in relation to the need for justice. In addition, the system survives only by the professional conscience of the staff; We have to call him back. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With the work of justice, you obviously do not want to improve or revolutionize – to paraphrase the President of the Republic – the situation. My orientated question – as in your pseudo-consultation – is this: Madam Keeper of the Seals, can you confirm to us that the forthcoming reform is aimed, not at responding to the need for justice, but at adapting justice to the budgetary shortage imposed on you by your colleague Darmanin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u81	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u82	[[Smile]] Mr Bernalicis, I don't know if I've put myself on the back of the law professions, but as long as I don't put myself on the back of the Members of the House of Representatives of France, everything will be fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u83	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u84	You're talking about a simplistic consultation, a facade consultation, a pseudo-consultation. Of which: I leave you free to think whatever you want. I could, however, subject to your sharp gaze the hundreds and hundreds of climbs we have had; These are more than 200 oral consultations to which Messrs. Houillon and Raimbourg surrendered; It is several thousand consultations that have reached us on digital – all this, it seems to me, does not fall within the scope of the purely frontal consultation. In any case, I had consultations that were more of a facade than the one I did. I do not believe, Mr Bernalicis, that French justice has ever been in a situation of great opulence. On the other hand, and even though we are not the first government to make significant efforts in favour of justice, I believe that we are uphill from much more difficult times. When we recruit, as is the case this year, more than 148 additional judges, who will be added to the judges already in office – thanks to recruitments carried out three years ago but which we maintain at the same level – when I increase the budget of justice by almost 4%;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u85	After last summer's credit cancellations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u86	... when I announce a programming law which, in just over three years, will put on the table more than EUR 1 billion, this is not negligible. If we change the way we work and continue to recruit people for justice, we can really advance our public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u87	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u88	As recent events have shown, the situation in prisons is untenable and often a matter of indigence. At the beginning of the year, as a result of several attacks, the staff began a movement of unprecedented magnitude for the past 25 years, despite the special status of officials of the deconcentrated services of the prison administration. France strongly denounces the lack of human and financial resources, as well as the rampant overcrowding in detention centres. The group La France insoumis had already alerted on the occasion of the review of the finance bill for 2018, last October, denouncing before the hour the shortage of staff and chronic overcrowding. We strongly advocate for a model of human-sized prison, geared towards the reintegration of convicted persons, which is the most effective way to ensure the prevention of recidivism. A major plan must be put in place to renovate the old and unworthy establishments of our Republic. For us, a prison must be a human-scale structure, located in an employment and population pool, in order to best match the objectives of reintegration. There is no need for large factory establishments, which are not secure for either staff or detainees. Priority should also be given to alternative measures to imprisonment, by rethinking the question of short sentences, which should not lead to the desocialization of convicted persons. The prison shock all too often leads to speeding up the precarisation of people by making them lose their housing, their work, their family ties, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u90	A number of offences should not be defined on the basis of a prison sentence but should be more directed towards alternative penalties, such as the EMS – suspended with probation – or the TIG – work of general interest – which alone can effectively combat recidivism. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Are you ready to give up the 15,000-seat prison building plan and put the package on alternatives to incarceration for short sentences?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u91	The budget line must be increased accordingly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u92	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u93	No, MP, I'm not prepared to give up the 15,000-seat prison building plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u94	It's a dead end!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u95	On the other hand, I am prepared to make a very sustained effort to put in place sentences that I wish to call not "alternative to incarceration" but "autonomous" sentences, different from the prison sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u96	If they have the same effects...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u97	It is absolutely essential that there be, on the one hand, prison sentences – they are necessary, no one disputes – and, on the other hand, autonomous penalties – for example, the use of electronic bracelets: we wish to establish them as autonomous penalties. I also wish, as I said earlier, that work of general interest, probation with probation and all other penalties should be developed...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u98	What about all the budgets?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u99	Mr Bernalicis, can I answer, or would you like to do it for me?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u100	I could do it, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u101	I'm sure of it! All the other penalties, I said, which, when more relevant, prevent incarceration, especially when it results in a dry exit. On the other hand, no, Mrs Fiat, I am not prepared to give up the construction plan which the President of the Republic has mentioned...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u102	Oh, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u103	... because we consider that, in the current situation, it is absolutely necessary to build various places. In other words, yes, we need places in a prison, but we also need, and that's what we want to do, places in what we currently call the "departure pre-departure quarters", which are less secure, more flexible and allow for the preparation of prisoners' exits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u104	It's still prisons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u105	We also want to develop mechanisms similar to open prisons. I went to the Netherlands less than a week ago to see this type of establishment: it is very interesting and quite positive in terms of reintegration. In short, we are preparing a panel of measures. We walk on two feet: criminal policy and the construction of prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u106	What a waste!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u107	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u108	Madam seal keeper, I have been taught that repeating is teaching, so I am taking the risk of repeating questions asked several times this evening. Perhaps this will allow you to continue to reassure us of your willingness to extend the dialogue with the territories. You will have understood this evening that the reports given give rise to concern and misunderstanding, particularly in a context where the general review of public policies – the RGPP – has not spared the sovereign functions of the State, even though only 0.22% of our GDP is devoted to justice. I am one of those who think that wherever the Republic recedes, wherever the regal functions are damaged, the risk of retreating upon oneself can progress, as well as the enemies of the Republic. That's why I want you to reassure us tonight. You did it a little bit, but I will take the example of Normandy and stress the importance of preserving full-exercise call courses in the former Haute-Normandie and the former Basse-Normandie – I mean the Caen and Rouen call courses. With regard to the breakdown of the courts, I will take the example of Dieppe, a city that is dear to me: what about correctional hearings, instructions? What about the powers in matters of divorce, of litigation relating to detention, of enforcement of penalties, of the law of minors, of civil cases involving sums exceeding 10000 euros, of the litigation of foreigners – when we have a port, and therefore a border with Great Britain –, of commercial law, of construction law, of commercial leases? Will all these powers be removed from our courts? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] So my questions are simple: what criteria will you remember? What will be the modalities of the consultation? What's the schedule? Answers to these questions are necessary to reassure us once and for all about the preservation of courts of full exercise, particularly in my territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u109	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u110	Mr Jumel, I am fully aware that concerns may arise from the Houillon-Raimbourg report; I read, I hear, I listen, I get a lot because we are in a period of consultation and this is not over. As far as the precise question that you are asking me about the timetable and the way in which consultation will be organised in the territories is concerned, it is a bit difficult for me to answer you today, since, as I mentioned a few moments ago, the general framing has not yet been decided. So I am not in a position to tell you when to start the dialogue in the territories. I would point out, however, that the Government will define a general architecture which will specify, in a department, what the court of great instance – to take its current name – will be, the courts of instance and the courts of appeal – again, there will be several in some departments – and how this framework will be declined in the territories, in terms of competences – because the organization can be referred to local consultation. It could start quite quickly: this will be the case as soon as the main architectural lines have been defined. I will probably be able to give you a slightly more precise timetable in the coming month. I wanted to tell you today how much we are committed to dialogue in the territories. Moreover, since you refer to the Dieppe court, the latter will of course continue to deal with civil litigation over 10000 euros and also criminal litigation, even if not all criminal proceedings are located in Dieppe. There will therefore, of course, be both civil and criminal: there is no doubt about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u111	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u112	Justice is a sovereign mission of the State. Yet, it is a department of metropolitan France where the public service of justice is seriously broken – the Seine-Saint-Denis, of which I am one of the elected. The situation has been well known for several years; In December 2016, the State was even sentenced for denial of justice, in a context of increased violence and delinquency in this department. On the occasion of the solemn re-entry hearing of the TGI of Bobigny, the public prosecutor fired the alarm bell. According to her, the nature of the criminal response "responses a little audible message to the victims, little audible to the investigators who put their energy to elucidate the cases and question the perpetrators, but very audible to the offenders". The result of this situation is a real break in republican equality for this department. The result is a sense of discrimination, which is unfortunately a reality. The population of the Seine-Saint-Denis is certainly more modest, younger, more mixed and probably has less influence and networks than other populations in other departments, but the Republic owes it no less equality. Some do not hesitate to gloat on territories that would be lost for the Republic. On the other hand, the Seine-Saint-Denis has the feeling of being a territory that the Republic abandons. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] My question is simple: it would be necessary, in order to paraphrase Mrs. La Prosecutore de Bobigny, to take exceptional measures for an exceptional department. Madam Keeper of the Seals, will you have the courage to take these measures and to put the means necessary to ensure that the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis have equal treatment in matters of justice, beyond what you have announced so far?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u113	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u114	Mr Peu, you are right to point out that the Seine-Saint-Denis – I am thinking in particular of the Tribunal de Bobigny – is a very unique jurisdiction. Historically, it has been a forensic laboratory, for it has put in place procedures, such as real-time processing, which have then swarmed throughout France. Bobigny has a lot of strength, young people who often arrive from the École nationale de la magistrature and take up their first position. This jurisdiction also represents, as you have pointed out, important issues in terms of delinquency. I heard, of course, statements made by the heads of the courts, but I did not need to hear them to know Bobigny's situation, because I had already gone there, I had stayed there for a long time and had spoken with the staff. We are, of course, following the situation very closely. In assessing the difficulties of this jurisdiction, we have taken strong decisions: we have appointed additional magistrates, so that there are no more vacancies in the prosecutor's office, which is quite positive – there will even, I believe, be an excess of two magistrates at the seat and the prosecutor's office. There are, of course, other difficulties that we must take into account – I am not talking about the material difficulties, which we must certainly deal with, but about the turnover of the staff of the Bobigny court. These are issues that we need to address. We therefore wish to provide answers and have supported the creation of a second chamber of immediate appearance. This is a decision of the president of the court, but we have made it possible for him to take it if he wishes. I also requested that a fifteenth juvenile judge be appointed in Bobigny. Efforts have also been made at the registry level. I also believe that, in the context of the overall question to be put to this Tribunal, the general inspection mission which will result in both an audit and support for it will be able to play a positive role. Be sure, honourable Member, that we are giving this court a very sustained attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u115	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u116	As you know, in order to combat crime effectively, the penalties imposed by the courts must be adapted to the seriousness of the facts, but also to the personality of the perpetrators. In order to effectively combat recidivism, these penalties must be implemented promptly. Beccaria said this in the 18th century, in her book Crimes and Sentences: "The faster the punishment will be and will closely follow the crime committed, the more just and useful it will be. » However, delays in implementation are often too long. The judicial decision then loses its meaning in the eyes of our fellow citizens, and especially those of the victims, who feel a certain impunity, even though sanctions have been imposed by the courts. At the same time, the sentence is less effective for the convicted person because, due to the length of time, the sentence is disconnected from the offence for which he was convicted. The package of certain offences will meet – at least in part – this requirement of speed and certainty of sentence. For prison sentences, but also for the sentences that you rightly call "autonomous", such as electronic bracelet placement, community service or probation with probation, new avenues are mentioned in the report submitted last month on the meaning – one might even say: the essence – and the effectiveness of the sentences, in the context of the work of justice. For example, the courts now have the opportunity to issue an electronic bracelet at the hearing. This is, in practice, rarely the case, since they often do not have sufficient personality elements to be able to make a decision in accordance with the principle of individualization of sentences. The report therefore provides for the strengthening of this information and makes electronic supervision an autonomous penalty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u117	Mrs. Louis, please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u118	Similarly, the report focuses on these autonomous penalties, such as community service, and proposes the creation of a new penalty that would merge criminal coercion and conditionality with probation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u119	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u120	I conclude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u121	It's favoritism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u122	Can I have another 20 seconds?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u123	Madam Keeper of the Seals, in the light of this report, what changes do you envisage in order to speed up the execution of sentences?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u124	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u125	Mrs Louis, thank you for your question. To answer briefly, the Cotte-Minkowski report seems to me to provide some very interesting leads, which I would like to be able to follow and propose in the context of the criminal bill that I will have the opportunity to present to you at the end of this spring. I hope, first of all, that the penalties will be better adapted to the situation of the person in question. For this to happen, of course, we need to clarify the scale of the penalties and put the judges in a position to be able to impose appropriate sentences ab initio, which obviously involves developing more robust personality investigations on the persons presented to the magistrate. This will no doubt imply that we have additional staff in the functions of integration and probation advisers...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u126	It's missed for 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u127	...and that we continue to work with the associations. We also wish to promote a clear regime for the enforcement of sentences. Perhaps I could propose, as I said earlier, that there should be no longer a term of imprisonment of less than one month, because of the ineffectiveness of this type of sentence, given the dry discharges they generate. I would also suggest that, as suggested in the Cotte-Minkowski report, for sentences of between one and six months, the magistrate may, by priority, impose penalties other than imprisonment, whether in the form of an electronic bracelet or other penalties, the penalty of imprisonment being, of course, possible in situations where it is not possible to do otherwise. Perhaps we can reduce from two to one year the terms of the famous article 723-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which allows for the adjustment of the sentence. Indeed, it seems to us that when a sentence of imprisonment of more than one year is imposed, it will be carried out. In this way we could propose a fairly balanced system, which would be part of the Cotte-Minkowski report at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u128	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u129	Madam Keeper of the Seals, on 5 October you launched the works of justice, which you entrusted to former parliamentarians, academics or practitioners recognized for their competence and knowledge of the realities of the field. Their conclusions were presented to you on 15 January and you undertook, on the basis of these five reports, to continue your consultations with various interlocutors. First of all, I would like to welcome your method, which is long-term, exchange and transparency, and which should remove any criticisms denouncing a reform "in the hussard" and "without consultation",...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u130	Missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u131	... as well as those that have been able to accompany the reforms carried out by some of your predecessors and which have left in the territories a trauma still perceptible today, especially with regard to the territorial meshing of our jurisdictions. As such, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have been from the beginning, speaking on this subject, rather reassuring in saying that no place of justice would be closed. However, if the number and location of our courts should not be called into question, the jurisdiction of certain courts and appellate courts should be changed and there are concerns that might arise from second-tier courts under the patronage of first-tier courts. In addition, in their conclusions, Mr. Beaume and Natali, who were responsible for improving and simplifying the criminal procedure, referred to the abolition of the sub-pole investigation. I would like to draw your attention to the consequences of such a measure in departments geographically remote from the current investigation hubs: the objectives you have set for a close and effective justice system would then not be satisfied because, like what is already happening – and often – in criminal investigations, the persons charged and the victims in criminal cases would be in difficulty in fully asserting their rights under the defence or the civil party to an investigating judge who is too far away. If the principle of collegiality is now acquired, a new map of the poles will have to be considered in order to enable equal access to the right for every citizen to be effective. Madam Keeper of the Seals, since your method is participatory and transparent, can you confirm to the national representation the commitment of the Government to a presence of the public service of justice efficient for all and in close proximity to all?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u132	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u133	Thank you, Mr Mazars, for commending the method we have adopted – which we continue to implement as we speak. I believe I have said that, in the context of the developments on which we are concerned, my priority is the proximity and efficiency of the decision rendered, which in some cases will require some specialization and some collegiality. My priority is also the strengthening of the criminal chain, which is absolutely essential. However, these three axes do not mean, of course, that we will touch on the instruction as it currently works. The various places of instruction will be preserved. You had indicated at various meetings that you wished to make a number of comments on this subject. I am prepared to hear them so that we can reflect further: this will fit perfectly into the framework of the local and national dialogue that is still under way on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u134	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u135	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would be grateful if you would excuse the redundant nature of my remarks, given all that you have heard this evening. It seems to me, however, and you will have become aware of it, that in the five areas of justice reform, the task of adapting the system of courts is the most sensitive, as the reforms undertaken by your predecessors have translated into the feeling of being downgraded and abandoned for the people and professionals. By entrusting this reflection to eminent personalities, you have already – and I greet him – reassured and broken with the mistrust and brutality often accused of previous methods. This new reform must be part of the ambition expressed by our President, who said that justice that meets the challenges of our time is a public service that puts the rightful person at the heart of the judicial organisation. As you recalled – and I thank you for this – an accessible, readable and simplified justice is a justice of proximity, which does not aggravate the disparity and imbalances between the territories. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have been able to reassure us on the general scheme by committing you first to maintain the current territorial grid and, more importantly, not to close any place of justice. On the other hand, and as you have heard on many occasions, a judicial reorganization of the courts consistent with the departmental administrative level raises many concerns and could contribute to a sense of two-tiered justice. We are convinced that our courts must be modernised and our procedures tend towards dematerialisation and digital simplification of access to law and legal information, but we must also strive for a more in-depth pedagogy in determining the criteria for making these changes. Madam Keeper of the Seals, as you mentioned, the reorganization of our courts does not seem to be included in the marble. Some departments could retain several judicial tribunals and, I hope, have full jurisdiction. It's, you know, because we've already discussed it, the wish I'm making for my Tarn department. As such, can you specify what objective efficiency criteria would be used to determine the size below and beyond which the maintenance, transformation or creation of these new jurisdictions will be decided?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u136	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u137	Mr Terlier, you say that the project on territorial adaptation is the most sensitive. I know that, of course, and I understand that, because it is basically linked to the constitution of our territories. At the same time, it must be understood that public service is first and foremost for litigants and that it is through this reflection on the need to strengthen criminal chains and to make justice faster and more predictable that we can show that public service can adapt to our century. You're asking me about the notion of efficiency criteria. It is a little early to answer on this specific subject because, as I said, we are still in the conciliation phase. If I told you this evening exactly how things will be organized within the framework of a general architecture – I told you that, with respect to local drawing, we will return to the territories – it would mean that the concertation is over, which is not at all the case at the moment I speak to you. I can say, however, that in order for justice to be done more effectively, it is necessary that the collegiality of judges, in some cases, be ensured. It also seems to me necessary – I repeat – to work on certain forms of advanced specialization – I gave you examples earlier – and to strengthen the criminal chain. These are the three lines that I will defend. A strong public prosecutor's office is needed to ensure that public policies are effective, coordinated, timely and responsive to the situation in the territories. At this stage, it is difficult for me to define the criteria adopted, but, as I said earlier, it is also in the territories that we will use to characterize this new development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u138	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u139	On 18 January, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you presented the notebooks of the judicial works, a vast work of consultation and reflection that will feed into future bills of programming for justice and of criminal and civil simplification. The only titles in these booklets reflect the Government's willingness to simplify procedures in order to enhance their effectiveness. My question is in this context and relates to the way in which the hearings conducted by the police and gendarmerie forces in the context of their investigations are handed over. Today, each hearing carried out is accompanied by a written report of the hearing and countersigned by the person summoned. Many of our security forces find this procedure slow, and the retranscription is also binding. Many actors in the judicial chain agree that the management of the hearing minutes is one of the elements of the viscosity of the proceedings. To this is added the question of the accuracy of the writing, often contested after the fact that the auditioners may indeed judge these transcripts unfaithful and approximate. Most of the time, however, the video of the hearings exists. It is provided for in cases of crime and flagrante delictos in order to be effective in the event of a dispute. It is therefore easy to imagine that this medium takes place directly from the minutes. To the argument that it is simpler to look for an element in a written record, I think it is possible to oppose, as the techniques evolve, the possibility of doing the same with the video thanks to the numerical markers of a sequence. Indeed, the management of digitized videos is infinitely more user-friendly than in the past. The relationship to the image and digitization of data has changed dramatically in recent times. It should also be noted that this practice is already widely in force in many countries. The introduction of video-recorded hearings would help to avoid the multiplication of these hearings and to faithfully restore the word while optimising service to the citizen. They could be accompanied by a written summary signed by the summons. The use of the video report filmed or, at least, audio-retranscribed seems to be relevant today. Would it be at least possible to carry out experiments in certain territories? Could you tell us how you feel about that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u140	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u141	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question. Procedures are regularly requested by law enforcement agencies. We have discussed this very much in the context of the meetings we have organized with the police and gendarmerie forces to change the criminal procedure. At this stage, we have not planned to embark on this. In addition to the fact that at present only certain hearings are the subject of a video recording – particularly in criminal proceedings involving minors – we must not forget, as you yourself have pointed out, that this system would impose a number of very heavy tasks: the realization of a synthesis requiring the viewing of all the hearings and the diligent acts – for example a search; In addition, several investigators may intervene under the same procedure and each of them should view the registration; Finally, for the magistrates, as it stands, it is much faster and more efficient to get to know a written interrogation, despite the points of identification on the videos, to which you alluded. For the time being, it seems to us more effective to get to know a written interview in order to look for elements rather than to view a recording. In our view, the main difficulty is that a judicial file is intended to be read and shared by a large number of actors. It seems to me that what you are proposing would be difficult. I would add that access by the lawyer to his client's hearings through the prior viewing of audio-visual recordings would also cause difficulties and, perhaps, a number of delays in the course of the proceedings. On the other hand, experiments in the use of dictation software can be considered in order to preserve the principle of the production of a writing, which seems indispensable in the state of our judicial system. Such a perspective is part of our digitisation objectives, in conjunction with the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u142	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u143	Madam Keeper of the Seals, following the events that took place in the prisons of Vendin-le-Vieil, in the Pas-de-Calais and Borgo in Corsica, and even more so the subsequent blockage that affected our prisons, you signed on Friday, January 26, 2018 with the majority union of prison supervisors, UFAP-UNSA, a memorandum of understanding that the latter considers to be the manifestation of a desire to profoundly change the functioning of prisons. This protocol, which aims to improve the security of officers through the renewal and improvement of their equipment, to speed up recruitment and to strengthen the compensatory arrangements, comprises three components: employment, allowances and security – the latter relating to the management of so-called radicalized prisoners and the establishment of completely leakproof quarters. This third component is particularly important, given the changing prison population. The way in which recent media trials have been conducted has confirmed to us that the criminal response to terrorism-related cases is unique, whether at the stage of detention, trial or sentencing. I therefore hope that you can clarify in concrete terms the measures decided on Friday, 26 January 2018 with regard to the so-called radicalised detainees, the timetable for their implementation and how they will integrate or impact the future prison plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u144	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u145	Mrs Mirallès, you are asking a sensitive question because the two main attacks that led to the movement of prison guards were, I believe, the fact of prisoners known as radicalised or radicalised – although this is not entirely certain for the latter. It doesn't matter because the question you raise is of a general nature. As I told you earlier, 500 detainees are listed as Islamist terrorists and 1200 are considered to be in the process of radicalization. Currently, these persons are held in 78 prisons throughout the national territory. It is a political choice not to bring them together in a single prison – we maintain it, while taking additional measures. On the one hand, as I said earlier, we are evaluating these inmates and doubling our assessment capabilities. Currently, we have three radicalisation assessment quarters and we will move to six by the end of 2018, which will allow us to take care of about 250 people and thus make up for the delay in terms of evaluation since, at the moment I am talking to you, the degree of danger of all these detainees has not yet been assessed. Once the last ones have been evaluated – the procedure lasts four months – we place them in one of the 78 establishments that can accommodate them, where they are in isolation. Moreover, for those who are not there, we have made a commitment to place them in neighbourhoods that will now be watertight. As I said earlier, we will organize ourselves to avoid contact with other inmates in order to avoid proselytism. Of course, this will mean that we are undertaking work. By the end of this year, we will be able to open 450 places in these tight quarters. I would add that the work will be extended in 2019. That is the way we intend to deal with the problem that you have raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u146	The floor is for Mr Michel Castellani, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u147	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would first of all like to give my support once again to the staff of the Borgo prison, and in particular to the recently and severely attacked agents. France is very often indexed because of the prison conditions imposed on prisoners: old-fashioned, promiscuity, unsanitary – this has already been said, including this evening. In this House, MEPs from all sides have indeed expressed their support for the humanisation of prisons. Recently, the Law Committee of our assembly organized a multi-site morning in order to raise awareness among the media and French opinion. I would like to point out that all prisoners are destined to leave prison and return to their place in society. It is a duty of humanity to prepare them as best as possible for their reintegration, thus minimizing the risk of recidivism and avoiding the form of double punishment that would constitute further marginalization linked to unemployment or precariousness. This notion of "double punishment" leads me to ask you here about the plentiful question of the rapprochement of Corsican political prisoners, therefore the fact that the law is currently not being applied. I would like to highlight the considerable problems involved in this situation for families. Madam seal keeper, my question is simple and direct: what are the ways and means envisaged by the Government to bring the Corsican prisoners closer to their island?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u148	Approximation proposed by candidate Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u149	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u150	Mr Castellani, your question is very frequently asked by the elected Corsicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u151	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u152	... which I had the opportunity to meet on the occasion of my visit to Borgo after the very painful attack on prison guards. The Government has had the opportunity to respond to this question on several occasions. We consider that they are not political prisoners and that they, like all the others, are entitled to the application of the rules of ordinary law, which is done on a case-by-case basis. We are currently assessing the situation of a number of Corsican prisoners to examine how close they can be to Corsica, as may be the case for ordinary prisoners,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u153	So they're not ordinary prisoners?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u154	...as I had the opportunity to say right now. When things change – which may be quite soon – we will, of course, keep you informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u155	That's not an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u156	The question-and-answer session on judicial and prison policy has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-20-O1147.u157	Next sitting, tomorrow, Wednesday 21 February, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Questions on overseas economic policy; Questions on the national road safety and transport infrastructure policy. The meeting is adjourned.
