ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u1	The President of the La République en marche informed the President of the Assembly that Mr Lenaïck Adam and Mrs Ramlati Ali were appointed Secretaries of the Assembly in place of Mr Mustapha Laabid and Mrs Marie Lebec as of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u2	The next item is the question of the Government's policy on the purchasing power of the French. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u3	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, France is today the European champion of public expenditure, since it represents 56.2% of its GDP. It is also number 1 in the area of taxes and social contributions. Instead of reversing the trend and making savings, you continue to vote on spending budgets. Your budget for 2018 is 4.5 billion euros in additional taxes for households and 7 billion euros in additional expenditure for the State. Instead of fighting the waste of public money, you're going to get the money from the middle class pocket. Instead of reducing the state's lifestyle, you increase the level of taxes. As of January 1, 2018, millions of pensioners have seen their generalised social contribution – CSG – increase by 25%. And yet, President Macron had promised that he would only demand an effort from the "affluent" pensioners. Even with the partial exemption of 30% of the housing tax, most retirees lose. I want to tell you, Secretary of State: it is simply immoral. That's not fair. Retirees are not privileged. They have worked hard throughout their lives. They must be able to live with dignity from the fruit of their work. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, Mr Secretary of State, what means do you intend to implement to improve the purchasing power of pensioners, which is absolutely essential?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Member of the European Parliament, at the beginning of your speech, you drew on an environmental note published by INSEE, which shows an increase in compulsory household levies of EUR 4.5 billion in 2018. The Government has already spoken about this note and has expressed its disagreement on the methodology and the calculation. He said that, with the measures passed in the draft finance bill and the draft social security financing bill at the end of last year, compulsory levies on households will decrease in total by almost €2 billion in 2018, taking into account increases in taxes on fuels and tobacco, and by about €5.5 billion as of 2019. You rightly mentioned one of the key measures in the 2018 budget for households, namely the exemption from the housing tax, which is 30% for 80% of households. You are aware that this discount exemption will continue in 2019 and 2020, to reach 100%. You also mentioned the issue of pensions, in connection with the increase in the CSG rate, which was announced during the presidential campaign. It should be recalled that the totality of households subject to the reduced rate of 3.8% is not concerned, nor are pensioners with a reference tax income of less than EUR 1200 per month for a single person – i.e. 40% of pensioners. When we look at the effects of the three-year housing tax reduction, not just in 2018, we see that more than 90% of pensioners will see the CSG increase offset by the gradual reduction in the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u7	No one denies the reality of the effort that is being demanded of pensioners in terms of intergenerational solidarity and a different redistribution of taxes. The Prime Minister indicated, however, that all households made up of two people who, due to some calculations, have been subject to an increase in CSG when it was not the Government's intention to submit them will benefit from a catch-up in the 2019 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u8	That's not what we're seeing right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u9	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u10	Mr Secretary of State, according to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, 2018 will see the effective entry into force of the measures in favour of purchasing power. In your opinion, the work will pay more, and the most fragile will be better protected. But it must be noted that your forecasts are contested and questionable! According to INSEE, the reforms undertaken by your majority will again penalise the purchasing power of the French, and the result will be the opposite of what you are announcing. The increase in the CSG, the taxation of energy products, the successive increases in the tobacco and fuel tax will have a major impact on the purchasing power of the French in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u12	The compensation announced by your government will therefore have only a relative effect. In your viewfinder, we find pensioners and motorists! In my predominantly rural department, the solidarity allowance for the elderly – ASPA – which should be increased to €903 per month for a single person by 2020, does not extend to retired farmers or their spouses. The Cantal, geographically landlocked, is already doubly sanctioned by its remoteness and lack of road infrastructure. It will be even more so by increasing the price of diesel, but also by limiting the speed to 80 kilometers per hour, which you impose on us. Do you ignore the difficulties of moving those inhabitants who are not lucky enough to benefit from two-way roads, or motorways, and who have no alternative but to use their vehicle, whether personal or professional? The prospects for the future are very sad and unlikely to attract people to communities far from their workplace, and the decline in purchasing power will not encourage citizens to jump. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, how do you intend to repopulate our campaigns, if you adopt measures that strike the budget of their inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u14	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u15	Mr President, you started your question by referring to the situation of the most fragile households in our country. It's April 3. It turns out that the Government has issued a number of decrees, which have been in force since 1 April and which make it possible to better support and support the most vulnerable households. You have referred to ASPA, which is commonly referred to as the minimum age. This allowance was increased by 30 euros on 1 April. It will see a further increase of 35 euros on 1 April 2019, and then on 1 April 2020, so that the upgrading of the ASPA will reach 100 euros by 2020, as the President of the Republic had pledged. On the same date, we upgraded the family supplement and supplement allowance for single parents. For the month of October, we also announced an increase of 20 euros per month in the activity premium. This increase will be renewed each year, leading to a total increase of 80 euros per month for all employees who receive less than 1500 euros for a single person. You could also have mentioned the increase of 50 euros in the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – planned for the next school year, in September or October. It will thus follow the same path as the minimum old age. Finally, you asked the question of agricultural pensions. This issue will be addressed. Because the mechanism that had been proposed was based on a financial base that we all know was not credible and therefore impossible to implement, the Minister of Solidarity and Health committed herself to further work on this issue. You wanted to look at the levies on French households, on the one hand, and a number of the measures I have just described, on the other. You should have gone further in your demonstration. Indeed, if we had chosen to increase the CSG, in a spirit of solidarity, it was because this measure seemed fairer to us than a two-point increase in VAT, that other candidates in the presidential election had proposed, because such an increase in VAT, which many of you had defended, would have amounted to 13 billion euros in additional levies on households.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u16	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u17	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr. Secretary of State, since some Members of Parliament of your majority "don't give a shit about what's going on in the riding," let me remind you of the discontent of the people of Calaisis about the policy you're leading against their purchasing power. I will not talk about the very easy classes since, for those, you have already removed part of the ISF – but it is true that you did not vote the budget... I'm going to focus on the middle and popular classes. The middle classes first. What do they say? They say that the 1.7-point increase in the CSG has severely reduced their purchasing power. They say that the reduction of the young child's benefit – Paje – by 15 euros per month and the lowering of its ceiling will deprive them of significant aid. For them, your compensation measures will only take place long after your tax increases and other planks. The drop in salary contributions? Autumn! Partial exemption from the housing tax? In November 2018, 2019 and 2020! The tax exemption for overtime? Not until 2020! In concrete terms, you are making cash on the backs of the middle classes, Mr. Secretary of State, and that amounts to tens of billions of euros. But if your MPs were concerned about the well-being of the people in their constituency, they would warn you above all about the dramatic situation of the popular classes, who suffer your tax increases without any compensation. Increase in diesel taxes by 10%, decrease in personalized housing subsidies – APL – by €5 per month, increase in the price of tobacco, overtaxation of oil and coal: you beat the popular classes. In my constituency, many homes are already exempt from the payment of the housing tax: they are 16% in Coulogne, 19% in Audruicq and up to 26% in Calais. They will therefore not benefit from your flagship measure, nor from wage measures, as many of them do not work or are retired. And don't count, Secretary of State, on local and regional authorities to support these popular groups struck by your harmful policy! The new financial obligations that you impose on the municipalities, from the duplication without assistance of classes in REP or REP + to the compensation of the increase of the CSG for territorial officials without new endowment, prohibit any additional expenditure to our town halls. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question is therefore simple, Mr Secretary of State: when will you stop attacking the French' wallets, especially those of the popular classes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u19	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u20	Mr President, you have referred to the question of the middle classes, and the question of the middle classes of the populace, to use your expression. Do you know how the gain from the CSG-contributory changeover is distributed? Please be aware that 50% of the earnings are paid to employees below 2220 euros net per month, and 70% to employees below 2920 euros net per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u21	My question is not about employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u22	I spare you the litany of decile-by-decile gain, but these two figures show that the Government's policy is directed towards the middle classes. Take the example of a private employee with a gross salary of 2185 euros per month. Its purchasing power gain related to the CSG-contributory changeover has been 12 euros per month since January, and it will be 32 euros per month from October, i.e. 192 euros in total in 2018, and 384 euros in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u23	You're not answering my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u24	Adding to this the housing tax, for those who pay it, will represent an average gain of 362 euros in 2018 and 753 euros in 2019. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You also referred to the situation of the communities and indicated that they should not be relied on to accompany the purchasing power measures, because they have to cope with the increase in the CSG without new staffing. When you want to ask a specific question, you have to have specific knowledge. We have implemented a mechanism that strictly compensates for the increase in the CSG. The increase in the CSG for civil servants was offset in two ways: firstly, by the abolition of the exceptional contribution of solidarity – ESC – by 1% for public officials with a base salary higher than that of the 315 index. For the others, and to compensate for the difference between the amount of the ESC and that of the CSG, we have provided for a compensatory allowance. And in order for communities to be able to finance it, we have lowered the employer-paid health insurance contribution rate from 11.5 to 9.88 per cent. The compensation is therefore integral and the communities have absolutely not been harmed by the increase in the CSG, which they can compensate their employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u25	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I had the opportunity last week to question in this Chamber one of your Government colleagues about the loss of purchasing power of pensioners as a result of the rise in the CSG and I must admit that I remained hungry. Today I would like to ask you, Secretary of State, about the purchasing power and the constraints on another category of Frenchman, the small entrepreneur. For him, administrative constraints and economic competitiveness are inversely proportional. But your government has promised both relief of constraints and relief of burdens to ensure, in the end, the improvement of purchasing power. My question is therefore precise: how to reconcile the economic competitiveness of TPE-SMEs, and therefore the purchasing power of their employers, their employees and their customers with the obligation since November 2017 for all companies, even the smallest ones, to declare their beneficial owners, the application of the new very strict rules resulting from the general data protection regulation, a European reference text since November 2017, the obligation to report annual social data since January 2017, the obligation to carry out a periodic review of sincerity also instituted since 2017 – which requires the production of documents attesting to the eligibility for deductibility of certain charges – the introduction of the tax on income tax at source which will be incumbent on companies and will entail administrative extra costs as from 1 January 2019, the forthcoming obligation for the employer to propose and manage a mutual fund for all its employees, the obligation on 1 January 2018 to replace all cash registers and to use a secure cashier's software, the obligation in case of control of the administration, to produce a file dematerialised from the accounts – known as FEC file. If I had more time, I could continue this list at the Prévert for more minutes. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, where is simplification? Where is the facilitation of the competitiveness of TPE-SMEs, essential links in improving the purchasing power of French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u27	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u28	Mr President, you have referred to the situation of the self-employed on the basis of the question of their purchasing power but with a focus on simplifying the procedures and the various declarations to which they are subject. For actively participating in the debate on the draft law for a State serving a trustworthy society, you know that the Government is committed to simplifying the normative environment, removing a number of declarations, limiting to nine months over a period of three years the maximum duration of the controls to which SMEs, including the self-employed, can be subjected. I grant you that this scheme is being put in place on an experimental basis in two regions for three years, but it is intended to become more general in order to ease certain constraints. We will also simplify the reporting obligations of SME managers and independents, particularly with regard to accounts. You mentioned the nominative social declaration, which is mandatory. Contrary to what you point out, this statement has brought together in one document and one procedure, several statements that previously coexisted. Simplification measures and the replacement of a number of paper declarations would save EUR 1.5 billion each year, according to a macro-economic estimate. This amount would be earned if only by easing the formalities to which entrepreneurs are obliged. We want to go even further, dematerializing as much as possible. Thanks to this simplification and the future law I have just mentioned, the experimental schemes we have put in place are intended to be generalized in order to better support and support SMEs and the self-employed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the reform of the RSI – the social regime of the self-employed – that we have carried out is also aimed at simplifying their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u29	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u30	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the purchasing power of farmers. Let me first of all have a thought for the farmers in the country of Othe and the South-Barrois, who have just been unjustly excluded from the mapping of disadvantaged areas, established by the Ministry of Agriculture. Indeed, while the Social Security Funding Act for 2018 has resulted in a 2.15-point drop in family contributions and a 5-per-cent drop in farmers' health and maternity insurance contributions, these decreases are only a substitute for a seven-point exemption from the sickness contributions of non-farm workers, who have been receiving them since 2016. In addition, based on figures from the Ministry of Budget and the Ministry of Agriculture, 60 per cent of farmers will receive these reductions fully offset the increase in the CSG rate. In contrast, at least 40 per cent of them, the reform of social security contributions results in a decrease in purchasing power. The Central Fund of the Agricultural Social Mutuality and the Social Security Agency of farmers have estimated EUR 121 million for 2018, the net increase in contributions for farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, do you consider that small farmers, who practice polyculture-breeding and often earn only SMIC, are privileged people able to withstand a decline in their purchasing power? What do you intend to do to strengthen the purchasing power of French farmers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u31	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u32	Thank you, honourable Member, for reminding you of the 2.15 percentage points reduction in family contributions and the 5-point gradual reduction in health and maternity insurance contributions for farmers. These decisions allow 60% of them, the most modest, to win. More structurally, all operators will gain from the 2015 situation. It is important to compare these two periods, because the 7-point exemption you mentioned, which was adopted for 2016, was part of a plan to safeguard the agricultural world and was intended to be only temporary. The measures we have taken perpetuate these exemptions for the vast majority of farmers. You stressed the question of the purchasing power of small farmers. We can expand our thinking on the purchasing power of farmers in general, especially those who are settled in territories like those you mentioned. The elected ardéchois that I am familiar with polyculture-breeding, which is based on diversification of production, to the opposite of industrial farms. We have a priority: to allow farmers to live decently and decently in their work. To this end, we must work in two directions: to preserve the level of the CAP...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u33	It's not a win!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u34	...which benefits our country and its agriculture – the entire government is mobilized in this direction, be assured – but also guarantee farmers the opportunity to live from their work with decent margins. I invite you to work with the House as a whole on the so-called PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation – as well as on the measures decided upon at the end of the General Food States, which aim, in conjunction with large-scale distribution, to preserve the farmers' margin so that they can first live from their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u35	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u36	The INSEE economic note published on December 19th is without appeal: the Institute studied the evolution of the levies in 2018. Under the influence of indirect taxation, the combination of increases and decreases "will increase compulsory household levies by around 4.5 billion euros, which will remove 0.3 points from the evolution of the purchasing power of our citizens". We are far from the promises made by the Minister of the Economy, Bruno Le Maire, in mid-September, which announced by the end of 2018, a reduction in compulsory levies "by about 10 billion euros". But these indirect tax increases are not the only ones that households suffer. Since January, nearly 8 million pensioners have measured in concrete terms the effects of the CSG's increase on their pensions. Above a reference tax income of more than EUR 14404 for a single person and EUR 22051 for a couple, every retired person contributes 1.7% to the financing of the reduction in social contributions of the assets. The Government had made every effort to make it clear that any additional income would pass these famous thresholds to many pensioners. Can we be considered easy beyond such thresholds? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have led this reform to the Hussarde, so much so that you must now recognize your haste and consider correcting the scheme for 100,000 pensioners in the next finance law – for those just above the threshold, according to government statements. In view of this decline in purchasing power, you are putting forward the exemption from the housing tax for 80% of households, without specifying that it does not intervene at the same rate, since it is only planned from next November and will be spread over three years. I would also like to ask you what you are planning to do to preserve the purchasing power of these millions of retirees who now despair of government policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u37	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u38	Member, I have responded to several of your colleagues about the CSG for retirees. I had the opportunity to recall that all retired households subject to the reduced rate would remain so and would not see an increase. I also pointed out that 40% of retired households escaped the increase in the CSG, in that they remain below the threshold at which this additional contribution is requested. With the fall in the housing tax in October, which will continue in 2019 and 2020, the overwhelming majority of retired households will see this increase in CSG offset. During his campaign, the President of the Republic had indicated his desire to review taxation and contributions with a view to achieving a fairer and more remunerative system for assets and employees, so that work would pay more and intergenerational solidarity would be better ensured. That was the meaning of the measures taken by the Government, which ensured, inter alia, that the most fragile were better accompanied. Thus, the solidarity allowance for the elderly, commonly referred to as the minimum old age, was increased by 30 euros per month on 1 April, to a total of 100 euros by 2020. It is also the meaning of all the measures we have taken to enable and facilitate, including through tax credits, the employment of employees at home, and hence the keeping at home of our seniors who need this support. Do not let the Member of Parliament believe that the Government would be disinterested in the situation of pensioners. It's all the other way around. It is precisely because we have the greatest interest in this generation, that we take care of the future of his children, the assets and those who need to be accompanied in their professional lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u39	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u40	The budget for 2018, which we voted for, includes many measures in favour of purchasing power: reduction of wage contributions, upgrading of the activity premium, as well as the allowance for disabled adults and the minimum old age, and phasing out the housing tax. Some, on these benches, denounce the rising prices of tobacco or diesel, perceived to be detrimental to purchasing power, while these are public health measures. Tobacco causes 800,000 premature deaths a year, fine particles 40,000. If everyone agrees on the need to reduce the tax burden on households, the first fight for purchasing power must be the fight against unemployment and better pay for work. The fall in wage contributions was a first step, which resulted in a direct increase on the employees' payroll, but we need to go further. Recently, the Government confirmed its intention to "desocialize" overtime. On the basis of that announcement, what would be the timetable for the measures the Government intends to take to enhance the value of work? Another fight concerns the cost of housing, which weighs more and more heavily on households and reduces their purchasing power. Housing represents on average the first item of household expenditure. On average, they spend almost 20 per cent of their income, but with large disparities. For the 10 per cent of the poorest households, housing expenditure accounts for more than 40 per cent of their income, while it represents only 10 per cent for the 10 per cent of the most affluent households. When it comes to income, housing costs the less well-off four times as much as it costs the more affluent. What measures does the government intend to take to reduce the cost of housing, especially for the less affluent households, and thereby increase their purchasing power?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u41	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u42	Thank you for your question, Member, in which you recall the various decisions taken by the Government and the majority to improve purchasing power – a reduction in the housing tax, a reduction in wage contributions that largely offsets the increase in the CSG, an increase in a number of social minima such as the minimum old age or the allowance for adults with disabilities. You are asking me more specifically about the timetable for measures to improve pay for work. The first has already taken place: it is the gradual decrease of 3.15 points in salary contributions in 2018, with a first step in January and a second in October. This will well represent a gain for employees as this decrease is greater than the parallel increase in the CSG. The second element is the revalorisation of the business premium of 20 euros per month. A person living alone, earning less than 1500 euros per month, will be gradually increased by 80 euros per month after four years. The last measure concerns the "desocialization" of overtime from 2020 onwards. I confirm the Prime Minister's commitment: the Government is willing to pay those who work overtime better. We choose to "desocialize" rather than to challenge it, because the exemption from social security contributions will benefit all employees more equitably, while the challenge of socialization benefits those who receive the highest income. From the beginning of 2018, salary contributions are falling. At the end of 2018, the activity premium is increasing. In 2020, overtime is exempt from social contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u43	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u44	Mr Secretary of State, during the campaign of candidate Macron, there was a lot of talk of purchasing power, a concern that was present in the daily lives of the French. Emmanuel Macron, who became President, is still on the agenda, and because of this: there is not a week when we have not been questioned by our fellow citizens on the subject. First of all, I would like to point out that several commitments have been made by candidate Macron: phasing out the housing tax for 80% of French citizens and for 100% in 2020; increase in the minimum old age; increase in the allowance for disabled adults; or, lower social security contributions on income from work as of January 2018. In order to finance this reduction in social security contributions, the Government and our majority, in the interests of solidarity, have chosen the CSG rather than VAT. We collectively accept this choice, because, although some opposition colleagues disagree, the CSG is fairer, more equitable and affects all revenues. Yes, pensioners are involved: while some of them easily understand the need for this intergenerational solidarity, others see only the decrease in the amount of their pension in their bank account. To these, we must provide answers, Mr. Secretary of State. Could you tell the national representative what CSG's share of retirement pensions is and what's on other income? Since the Prime Minister has also announced the decision to improve the situation for 100,000 pensioners, could you tell us in what time frame and under what terms?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u45	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u46	Mr President, you have recalled the importance of the question of purchasing power and the fact that the return of economic growth is accompanied by the legitimate expectation that the fruits of this growth will be shared among all the French. You also recalled – this is an important element – the reduction of the housing tax, which will be effective for 80% of households in the autumn, for an average gain of some 300 euros, as well as the increase in the solidarity allowance for the elderly as well as the allowance for adults with disabilities, not to mention the revalorisation of the activity premium each month from October to the tune of 20 euros. You also recalled that the 3.15-point reduction in social security contributions had been financed by an increase in the CSG on all incomes. It is important to stress this, because, as you pointed out, there was another hypothesis, that of an increase in VAT, which would have concerned only consumer acts. An increase in the CSG, which also applies to capital income, has the advantage of a much more equitable distribution. We are determined to settle the case of just over 100,000 households, which have seen their CSG increase, while, taking into account the individual income of each member of these households, they should have been exempt from the increase. The Prime Minister is committed to correcting this situation in the context of the 2019 budget debates. In 2018 we will be able to respond to this concern. You also asked me about the distribution of the increase in the CSG, which amounts to 22 billion euros: 11 billion are borne by private employees, 4.5 billion by pensioners, 3 billion by public officials, 2.2 billion by income from capital and gambling and 1.9 billion by the self-employed. These are orders of magnitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u47	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u48	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the 5450,000 public officials, civil servants and contractors, who have made commitment to the service of the collective their daily lives, in our hospitals, schools, police stations or courts. It is modern hussards of the Republic who are, on the front line, the guarantors of social cohesion and social mix. It should be noted that 45 per cent of category C officers receive a salary equivalent to SMIC. However, despite the compensation for the increase in the CSG voted in January 2018, they found erosion on their payroll. There are several reasons for this. First, they receive deferred compensation, calculated on the income of year n-l, while the increase in the CSG is calculated on the income of year n. Then, the freeze on the index point, already effective in 2016 and 2017 after six years of stagnation, is still in place. Finally, the increase in pension contributions decided in the context of the 2010 pension reform still weighs on their purchasing power in 2018. Mr. Secretary of State, it is all the more important for me that the commitments be fulfilled that this government intends to call on everyone to make a healthy effort to redress the public accounts. If we understand and support it, this effort also leads to pressure in terms of work organisation, a tight-flow work with tight goals for the teams. These women and men have decided to put their professional careers at the service of all and, therefore, of the organization of the city. This beautiful ideal is a cement for the Republic. Public officials deserve our recognition. Let us not let evil be among them. Let's not let a hiatus settle between you and them. Secretary of State, how do you intend to honour the campaign promise to improve the purchasing power of public officials? What are your roadmap and calendar?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u49	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u50	Mr President, you first mentioned the question of compensation for the increase in the CSG and the current state of wages of public servants and, in a second stage, the prospects for the evolution of their purchasing power. The CSG's compensation is to the nearest euro. The General Secretary of the CGT's Federation of Public Services recognized this in Les Échos on January 4. We can record and take as such his testimony. How did we compensate for the increase in the CSG for public officials? First of all, we have removed the solidarity contribution, which amounts to 1% of income for agents whose basic salary is higher than the 315 index. For staff members who are not subject to the solidarity contribution, we have provided a compensatory allowance, which is strictly equal to the amount of the difference between the increase in the CSG and the possible abolition of the solidarity contribution. It was financed, in the case of State agents, by the inclusion of €290 million in the State budget. For local authorities and hospital workers, we have lowered the level of the sickness contribution paid by their employers from 11.5 per cent to 9.88 per cent, which makes it possible to identify the means necessary for compensation. Compensation is therefore integral. An increase is not compensated, you were right to recall: it is that of the old-age wage contribution. This increase is the result of a measure taken in 2010 to bring the old-age contribution rates of public and private employees into line. The convergence tunnel was slightly revised upwards in 2013 following a decision taken in 2012. This will be the case until 2020. The old age contribution of public employees will increase from 0.25 to 0.27 points, in accordance with these agreements. We will continue to work on the issue of purchasing power until June's salary appointment, both by guaranteeing the GVT – an ageing technology – and the individual guarantee of purchasing power provided by law to take account of inflation, and by looking with the unions at the poorly valued trades, to which we could give a boost, in accordance with the commitments of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u51	There have been promises!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u52	We turn to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u53	Mr Secretary of State, my question, following those of many colleagues, concerns the purchasing power of the French, particularly that of pensioners. I have been alerted many times in my constituency by retired people who have been severely affected by the 1.7-point increase in the CSG set up by the Government. Mr Secretary of State, we cannot remain insensitive to the plight of a significant part of our fellow citizens, who are experiencing this increase in the CSG as a great injustice. Retirees have worked hard their entire lives as assets to pay for the pensions of previous generations. Today, they are told that they must make a new effort to finance the living standards of the assets! It's double trouble! By amputating their purchasing power, the mechanisms of family solidarity are further reduced and there is a risk of raising generations against each other. That's a bad message. The Government has committed itself to correcting the shot next year for elderly couples earning, two, less than 1,800 euros per month. This measure, while positive, will affect only 2% of pensioners affected by the CSG increase and will in no way mitigate its effects for 2018. Today, 7.5 million people are affected by this increase. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to act to also relieve those individuals whose incomes are just above the threshold? Finally, do you intend to restore the half-tax share of widows, abolished under the previous quinquennats?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u54	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u55	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u56	Mr President, I have already had the opportunity during this sitting to answer several questions about the increase in the CSG. I would simply point out that couples of pensioners who benefit from a reduced CSG rate are not affected by the increase and 40% of pensioners are spared. In addition, the gradual reduction in the three-year housing tax will compensate for the increase in the CSG for almost all households. The Prime Minister – as you pointed out – has also committed himself to making the necessary corrections for couples who are very little above the thresholds from which the CSG increase applies, which will help to resolve the difficulties that some households may encounter and that no one here would have the nerve to deny. Finally, I would like to remind you that in October 2017, we carried out a 0.8% adjustment to retirement pensions. Perhaps it is, in the eyes of pensioners, less than they hoped: however, it is the largest increase since 2013. We will continue to work in this direction, in the same way that we will continue, in the coming years, as since 1 April, to raise benefits, I am thinking in particular of the minimum old age – the ASPA – which has been raised by 30 euros a month since the day before yesterday, and which will be raised by 35 euros in 2019 as well as in 2020. You also raised the question of the abolition of the half-tax share of widows, decided under a previous quinquennium, not under the previous quinquennium. The measure was taken during the quinquennium 2007-2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u58	The assumption of reverting to this deletion was made. Members of the majority opened the debate. You know that it would be very tax-intensive. The Prime Minister said that nothing had yet been decided but that he was listening to the proposals of the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u59	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u60	Mr Secretary of State, in his business note of 19 December 2017, INSEE estimated the increase in all compulsory levies on households in 2018 to EUR 4.5 billion. In its study published on 15 January 2018, OFCE – the French Observatory of Economic Situations – supplemented this note by taking into account – this was one of the criticisms of the Government addressed to the INSEE study – of all the social measures decided by the Government, amounting to 3.1 billion euros, in which the 712 million for the activity premium, the 702 million for the allowance for disabled adults, the 115 million for the minimum old age, the 10 million for the supplement of free choice of mode of care and the 1.6 billion premiums for the three public functions, in order to compensate for the fall of 0.7%, or in some cases of their purchasing power. The decline in household purchasing power, after taking into account both the increase in compulsory levies and the rise in social benefits of 3.1 billion, thus amounts to 1.4 billion, or 0.1% of household income – you cannot contest this figure. However, this overall amount conceals a sharp increase in the purchasing power of the 5% of French with the highest incomes and a much smaller increase in the 20% of French with the lowest incomes. Thus, the overall increase in levies is concentrated on 75 per cent of the French belonging to the middle classes, which reinforces the inequalities in this country. In view of this fact, Mr. Secretary of State, what measures does the Government intend to take to improve the purchasing power of the middle classes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u61	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u62	Mr Member, as I have already had the opportunity to say, the Government is contesting the INSEE's note, both on the method and on the substance. We say that household taxes will fall well in 2018. In particular, 80 per cent of households will no longer pay the housing tax within three years. As for wage contributions, they will be reduced very sharply, which will more than offset the increase in the CSG for private employees. The increase in the CSG will be fully offset for civil servants and independents and 75% of them will be successful in this operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u63	And the housing tax, how will it be compensated to the communities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u64	We consider these tax and contribution reductions to be higher than the projected increase in taxes on tobacco, which is a public health imperative, and on fuels, as a result of the gradual alignment of diesel with gasoline in the name of the energy and environmental transition. INSEE's estimate of the impact of the increase in taxes on tobacco and fuels is different from that of the Government: unlike INSEE, we believe that we need to take account of a decrease in consumption on these two items. Furthermore, as you know, INSEE estimates the accounting effect on household income and not the effect on actual tax revenues; it is even specified in the note you mentioned that it is "probable that the effect on actual tax revenues will ultimately be less than the accounting effect on household income". Last but not least, INSEE figures do not include measures in favour of purchasing power such as the increase in the minimum old age, which I have already mentioned several times, the increase in the activity premium or the increase in the supplement of free choice of the mode of custody by 30% in October. Let me point out, Mr. de Courson, that the first four deciles in the standard of living will rise from 2.7 to 2.9 per cent, which contradicts your argument that the effort would be borne by the middle classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u65	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u66	We continue with the questions of the New Left Group. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u67	Secretary of State, for several weeks now, we have been alerting you to the plight of many of our least fortunate and most vulnerable citizens, like our elders and people with disabilities. The weakness of their purchasing power sometimes leads them to desperate situations. In front of them, the Government pays for words. The allowance for adults with disabilities increases, but the contribution of the protected adults to their own protection, which cancels the effect of the first measure for many persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u69	The housing tax will be removed, but the CSG increases for pensioners. And what about our grandparents living in EHPAD who no longer paid one, but suffered the other with full whipping? In total, purchasing power does not progress: it declines. This is the responsibility of the Government. I would like to take one example: that of Josette, 95 years old, residing in Haute-Loire. It receives €19,234 of various income each year: it is not poor in the sense that the Government hears it, and yet it is not rich. Hosted in an EHPAD, it will face, in 2018, nearly 26000 euros of charges, all absolutely incompressible. Tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, how Josette is supposed to find the over 6600 euros missing on his budget! What can she eat on? How can she save money? In the first quarter, INSEE data indicated a slowdown in growth. My question therefore also arises in economic terms. There is general agreement that the greatest threat to French growth is weak demand. However, none of the measures taken by the Government tended to increase the purchasing power of households with a very high propensity to consume, i.e., with little savings. These, however, represent a very large part of the French, and all the most fragile. For them, less purchasing power is less consumption and therefore, for France, less growth. On the other hand, you favour a tiny minority of households that are more affluent with measures whose impact on investment remains to be demonstrated. Clearly, the economic diagnosis that results from the measures you put in place is blind, or at least blind. What will the Government do to reconcile economic common sense with social justice, to really strengthen the purchasing power of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u70	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u71	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u72	Madam Member, if we are not blind or blind, we will try to face reality with both of our eyes. In your view, the Government would not take measures to promote purchasing power. Unfortunately for your argument but fortunately for the people concerned, your claim is denied by the increase in the salary of the assets resulting from the decrease of 3.15 points in social contributions, despite the increase of the CSG in January. I said earlier that the second wave of reduction in contributions would allow for a stronger gain in purchasing power. In addition, the abolition of the housing tax by a 30% reduction was voted. We are also taking measures for the most vulnerable households. I mentioned the minimum old age, which increased by 30 euros on 1 April and which will increase by 100 euros over three years. You yourself mentioned the allowance for adults with disabilities, which increased by 1% in April; Of course, this increase will be offset, if I may say so, by the efforts called for under the protection, but an additional increase of EUR 50 per month will take place in October. The Government therefore has the will to protect the most fragile and to increase these social minima and allowances. On another point, I disagree with you, but I am convinced that we can find ourselves. You mentioned an example from the Puy-de-Dôme, which you know well...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u73	I know Puy-de-Dôme well, but I took the example of a resident of the Haute-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u74	[[Smile]] From the Haute-Loire, forgive me. Sometimes I prefer the Puy-de-Dôme! As a result, you have taken the example of an elderly person, who is retired, faced with charges related to his or her accommodation in EHPAD. You know like me, and even better than me, since you know this sector well, that the difference between the income of this lady and the amount of her expenses, which you have described as incompressible, is not specifically related to the level of pensions, since the latter is generally far too low to allow for support in EHPAD, but rather to the method of charging for the accompaniment and accommodation of the elderly in EHPADs. The work undertaken by Agnès Buzyn, which is to implement the reform of pricing, with an additional €430 million, to allow recruitment and to work on the rest with the continuity of the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, seems to me a better answer than a single reflection on the level of pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u75	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u76	Secretary of State, my question is about two purchasing power measures that raise questions about fairness between territories. It also includes a proposal, which I hope will receive your full attention. The first point concerns the emblematic measure of the presidential programme: the exemption from the housing tax. This measure was sold to us as a means of ending an unfair tax, such as a compensation measure for the victims of the CSG's increase, particularly the most modest pensioners. If the housing tax is indeed an unfair tax – we can agree – its exemption is just as so. For proof: according to the data provided by your administration, this tax is estimated, in my department of Aisne, at 410 euros per dwelling, whereas the national average is 582 euros, i.e. a difference of about 40%. In other words, regardless of where you live, the CSG increase applies in the same way; on the other hand, its compensation by the exemption from the housing tax is very different depending on your place of residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u77	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u78	It is less purchasing power for already fragile territories, with a dry loss for the local economy, for our businesses, for our artisans. So what measures do you intend to take to compensate for this loss of wealth in these already disadvantaged territories? The second point concerns the energy check. Here too, I question myself in terms of territorial fairness. On this subject, allow me to speak as the only socialist representative of our beautiful region of the Hauts-de-France. Enrico Macias sings: "The people of the North have in their hearts the sun they do not have outside. Secretary of State, if it is true that we have the sun in our hearts, we are not against a little thinning in our purse! While the social price of energy depended on consumption, itself linked to climate, the same is not true for the energy check, since it is linked to the income and composition of the household. So here's my question and my proposal: do you not think that in terms of territorial equity, it would be useful to modulate this energy check according to the administrative regions, taking into account the climate reality? I would also remind you that there is also a zoning for the BBC classification – low consumption building –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u79	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u80	... which takes account of climate realities and whose model seems to me to be easily transposable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u81	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u82	Mr President, first of all with regard to the energy check, which amounts to 150 euros for about 2.5 million households, the Government's objective is to move towards a system that is much simpler than the social pricing that you mentioned. Since you participated like me in these debates, you remember the various events surrounding the social pricing of energies: the fairly repeated censorships of the Constitutional Council had led us to discuss this issue on many occasions, without succeeding in removing the complexity of a system that now reaches its limits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u83	It's not exactly that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u84	As far as the housing tax is concerned, you are denouncing an inequality of amounts, both for the households that pay it and for the local authorities that collect its revenues. This question is known; In any case, the observation is shared by all. The housing tax is an unfair tax for the territories: depending on the rental basis, the tax revenues are extremely disparate. Unfairness is found within the same department: between a central municipality and a peripheral municipality, because of the sedimentation, the differences in the level of indebtedness and the cost of operating centrality equipment, the rates can be extremely different. It is also an unfair tax for households since, in general, the absence of a revision of rental values for several decades has prevented the system from monitoring the evolution of income and territory. The President of the Republic had announced his intention to abolish the tax by way of a discount for 80 per cent of households; At his television address on 31 December 2017, he indicated that this measure would ultimately affect 100% of households. Alain Richard and Dominique Bur have been given a mission to find a local tax system that guarantees the territories, without increasing the tax burden, sustainable, fair and enabling them to carry out the policies and actions they have to implement. This construction site is complex. We have three years to succeed. In the meantime, we are committed to fully compensating for the loss of profits for communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u85	We continue with the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u86	Mr. Secretary of State, in 2015, INSEE conducted a study on the cost of living overseas. It is interesting to look at the price of food, since it represents one of the first items of household expenditure. The numbers speak for themselves, as the gap with hexagon is obvious. In Martinique, for example, prices are 38% higher than in hexagon; This difference is 33 per cent in Guadeloupe, 34 per cent in Guyana and 28 per cent in La Réunion. Private housing is 10 to 20 per cent higher in the overseas region than in the hexagon. The cost of living overseas is a reality that the state recognizes, since it grants a living premium to its officials – and that makes sense. But, Mr. Secretary of State, life is expensive for everyone overseas! We have struggled for many years for what we have called "social equality", which is to have the same SMIC and social benefits as in hexagon. We have achieved this formal equality, but that is not enough: the overseas purchasing power remains far below the purchasing power in the hexagon. When we cross these figures with those of living standards in the overseas countries, the situation is even more alarming. In a 2014 Senate information report, the median disposable income per unit of consumption of households living in the overseas departments was found to be 38% lower than that of households in the hexagon. If one digs further, one realizes that, in the overseas departments and regions, the average amount of retirement pension is 21 per cent lower than the national average. In La Réunion, for example, over 50 per cent of older persons live below the poverty line. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Mr Secretary of State, formal equality is not enough: our living conditions, together with the cost of living overseas, make the lives of our fellow citizens impossible. What does the Government intend to do to take concrete action in this area and to eradicate this great injustice between the overseas and the hexagon?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u87	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u88	Mr President, you have raised a number of points in your question which I could have mentioned in my reply, in particular concerning the fighting by the overseas elected representatives to obtain what you have called formal equality. However, as you have pointed out, in reality the work of catching up, upgrading or aligning a number of incomes in the overseas territories in relation to the metropolis is far from complete: there is still a long way to go to ensure that formal equality becomes a real equality in terms of remuneration. The Government shares your concern about the purchasing power of all our ultramarine compatriots. In this area, we can use two tools. The first tool is to be built: it is to follow up the overseas states-general organized by Annick Girardin, which foresee a number of measures that we must implement because they will participate in this effort of catching up and equality between the overseas territories and the metropolis. Moreover, as you know, Article 15 of the Law of 20 November 2012 on Overseas Economic Regulation introduced into our law what we later described as "price quality shield". The Government, which is attentive to and attached to the scheme, affirms that the shield is applied every year and thus contributes to price control in the overseas departments. It should be recalled – as this measure may not be sufficiently implemented – that the scheme also provides for the prefect to organise annual negotiations between stakeholders, i.e. professional organizations in the retail sector and their suppliers, as well as maritime freight companies and freight forwarders, in order to conclude a price moderation agreement in the form of an overall price for a list of current consumer products. This mechanism, which is a correction device – while perhaps waiting for the alignment of the revenues you call for and of which we share the expectation – is in no way abandoned and must always be implemented. Your question, however, encourages us, still within the framework of the General States, to work further to make this mechanism more effective than it is today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u89	There is nothing concrete in this answer! It's empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u90	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u91	Secretary of State, purchasing power is not an abstract question. It's a matter of balance of power. It should therefore be discussed on the basis of specific cases. In Carrefour, a social plan provides for the elimination of 10,000 jobs in total. The changeover of sites to management rental status, which excludes them from Carrefour's business agreements, removes more than a month's salary from the employees concerned. Together with my colleagues in La France, I supported the workers' strike in the fight against this intolerable situation and I want to send them a fraternal greeting once again since this assembly. What irony, that Carrefour dares, in the present context, to mistreat at this point those to whom the company owes its wealth! This wealth, it owes it to its workers, whom it attacks, but also to all the French. Since 2013, taxpayers have paid Carrefour €744 million and the Secu has been deprived of €2 billion in salary contributions. At the same time, Carrefour paid its shareholders 2.4 billion euros in dividends. This means that each taxable household has given 44 euros to the shareholders of Carrefour and that the management of Carrefour has paid the equivalent of all the aid received to its shareholders: here they are, the assisted ones that cost us dearly! In addition, Carrefour is also a major user of tax optimization via Belgium. When a tax fraud group, Mr. Secretary of State, is sanctioned – it is not given public money. The day after the announcement of the ill-named "social" plan, the Carrefour action took 6%. These people have never finished squandering and contenting themselves with it. The beneficiaries of your policy, which has lowered the tax on capital, are also those who saber champagne at every layoff – but how can we blame them when the Minister of Labour, Ms.Penicaud, herself received bonuses for the social plans she supervised in Danone?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u92	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what you intend to do to protect employees, to recover the money of dilapidated taxpayers, to put an end to the tax evasion practices of large groups, to limit the rapacity of finance and, thus, to really and effectively fight for the purchasing power of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u94	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u95	Madam Member, your question is interesting and important, but I have had difficulty, until your last sentence, in linking it to the actual situation of purchasing power, including that of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u96	Employees are going to lose a month's pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u97	I will give you some answers, since you have cited Carrefour's example and the large distribution sector. First of all, Carrefour is one of the first private employers in France, with 115000 employees, and the group is actually facing a difficult economic situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u99	Two billion distributed to shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u100	..., since he suffered 500 million euros in losses last year, which led him to set up a voluntary departure plan. Beyond Carrefour's situation, it must be borne in mind that, as has been pointed out on several occasions, the large distribution sector is one of the most affected by the emergence of e-commerce, and in particular by the establishment of Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – the GAFAs – which ultimately requires a reorganization of this sector. As he said, the Minister of Economy and Finance will bring together all the players in the retail sector in the coming weeks to see with them who have formed partnerships with e-commerce providers, what developments are expected in this sector and how to support employees to ensure that they are better protected, better accompanied and that they can also consider reclassifications whenever necessary. Behind your question was the fight against tax fraud. By hearing you, I am almost convinced, Madam Member, that you will be able to support the text that Gérald Darmanin and I will soon be presenting to you to strengthen the tools of this struggle, to punish those who commit a form of complicity by promoting fraudulent montages and to fix the decaple of the amount of fraud the maximum amount of sanctions that can be decided by the judge against companies frauding the tax. On this text on the fight against tax fraud, I can assure you that we are open to proposals and I believe that many of the provisions that we will propose will be in line with what you are waiting for and which you have expressed in your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u101	And the CICE, we're not asking the fraudsters to pay him back?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u102	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u103	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, according to the Association des paralysées de France, half of the disabled have a standard of living of less than EUR 1540 per month, almost EUR 200 less than that of a valid person. The more severe the disability, the lower the income and the higher the level of poverty. The type and importance of disability also plays on the standard of living and a person with a severe disability receives almost 500 euros less than a person without disabilities. The question of preserving the purchasing power of persons with disabilities is therefore very important. The increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities you have announced is insufficient, as the amount of this allowance will remain below the poverty line, set at EUR 1015 per month for a single person. Worse still, the reform will increase the consideration of the spouse's or spouse's resources in order to gradually align the allowance with other social minimums. The associations have been asking for years that the spouse's income should not be included in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities, in order to ensure the independence and autonomy of the beneficiaries. An autonomy allowance for persons who, because of their disability, cannot engage in a normal activity must guarantee the autonomy of such persons, regardless of their family status. Unfortunately, taking this criterion into account is neither more nor less than discrimination, sometimes a hindrance to marriage and, above all, a dry loss of purchasing power. This clearly runs counter to a more inclusive society and the fight against poverty for people with disabilities. A few weeks ago, on behalf of the Communist deputies, my colleague Marie-George Buffet tabled a bill to abolish the inclusion of the spouse's income in the AAH's calculation base and was joined by almost 80 deputies, and then asked for a special commission. The debate was once again rejected, with the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs telling us that this was not the Committee's business. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The associations continue to question us. What does the Government intend to do to remedy that injustice?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u105	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u106	Madam Member, with this question, you are asking the question of the purchasing power of persons with disabilities and you have anticipated one of the elements of the answer that I was about to make, highlighting the revalorisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities. As I said earlier to Mrs Christine Pires Beaune, this revalorisation is 1% on 1 April, under the strict application of the law, and will be 50 euros in November 2018, then again about 50 euros in 2019, to reach 900 euros. You pointed out that we are still a little far from the poverty line, but we must also take into account to its proper extent this catch-up effort, which has been one of the most important in a long time. As for taking into account the income of the spouse for the allocation and determination of the amount of the AAH, this measure was announced in the name of equality, with a view to bringing the various social minimum schemes into line. Moreover, it is in line with the logic adopted by the President of the Republic in his campaign to mention the idea of a single social benefit that would allow for more clarity and a higher rate of recourse than today. Beyond the question of the allowance for adults with disabilities and the debate that you have and that we will continue to lead on this issue, we consider that the autonomy of persons with disabilities also depends on the ability to access work. Today, about 500,000 people are recognized as disabled workers and work – 240,000, or just under half, in the civil service and the rest in the private sector. With Sophie Cluzel, Muriel Pénicaud and Bruno Le Maire, we launched the necessary consultations for the renovation of this framework, in order to make the measures more direct, to better regulate the compensation measures, sometimes used, not to recruit people with disabilities, but to delegate this obligation by purchasing benefits, and thus to be able to significantly increase the number of people with disabilities having access to employment and autonomy. There are two pillars: the allocation – and it alone – for those who unfortunately cannot have access to a job and, for those who can, the development of access to protected jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u107	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u108	Mr Secretary of State, if today life is expensive everywhere in France, following decades of ultraliberal policies, it is even more so overseas, where centuries of colonial pact have forged an economy of abuse and dependence. Despite the Law of 20 November 2012 on Overseas Economic Regulation, the Law of 14 October 2015 on Overseas Law and the Law of 28 February 2017 on Overseas Real Equality, scandalous situations remain. Food costs are 38% higher than France, despite the price-quality shield introduced by the Lurel law. The same discrimination characterizes almost all sectors of everyday life. In the West Indies, treatment costs 17 per cent more, including health services, medicines, and other therapeutic devices and equipment. For the internet or mobile phone, we pay 32% more for less services, the price seems to be inversely proportional to the rate of debit. And what about bank and postal tariffs or the cost, for example, of transport and spare parts for the automobile? Aggravating circumstances, these increases are being perpetrated in a context of increased poverty. While in France 14% of households live below a poverty line of 944 euros, in Martinique 21% live below another threshold of 615 euros. How can we accept that the Republic allows these calculations with varying geography of human misery? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Mr Secretary of State, we can no longer be satisfied with measures that will not put an end to this unbearable disparity, which strikes the purchasing power of the humblest. What concrete actions do you intend to take in this direction without penalising the finances of local authorities, to which you already impose an unprecedented effort?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u109	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u110	Mr President, I will answer you in three points. First of all by inviting you, as I did for one of your predecessors on the list of speakers, to participate – but I believe you have already done – in the implementation of the measures adopted within the framework of the General Assembly...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u111	Seats!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u112	Yes, it is. In the context, therefore, of the foundations launched by Annick Girardin, Minister of Overseas Affairs, whose purpose – or at least the objective – is to answer many of the questions you have asked. You referred to the laws of 2012, 2015 and 2017, which each time provided for efforts and commitments to address the inequalities that exist, as you pointed out, in various aspects between the overseas territories and the metropolitan territory – whether it is the level of income or the indicators chosen to determine individual situations. I also recalled earlier that, since 2012, the price-quality shield has been put in place, which can be improved and which certainly gains to be improved because, in fact, prices in retail stores are frequently below the ceilings agreed under this shield, which suggests that the ceilings are certainly set at a level that is not binding on distributors – which justifies one of the differences that you have noted: the difference between the prices that ultramarine households pay and households established in metropolitan France for everyday consumer products. I will conclude with a parenthesis on the situation of communities. The "unprecedented effort" you refer to is to limit the increase in spending to 1.2%. I think very sincerely, for having voted for the reduction of the endowments and for having suffered it or applied it as mayor of a city of 17,000 inhabitants, that it is much more comfortable for elected officials to have the guarantee of stability of the endowments in return for a limitation of the increase in expenditure than to be faced with a decrease in revenue, as may have been the case in previous years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u113	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u114	Secretary of State, the first finance bill we passed in the fall marked the fulfillment of the commitments we made during the election campaign. Among all the measures in this bill, some have directly concerned the revalorisation of labour. This is particularly the case with the change in the sickness contribution and the unemployment contribution on the CSG. It is on this political choice that I would like to ask you, because it has an impact on the purchasing power of employees, but also on our immediate and future economic balances. First of all, I would like to point out that by choosing to switch part of the social protection funding to the CSG, we have chosen to extend the levy base. Now, for certain social risks, it is not only the contribution on labour income that contributes to the protection of individuals, but also a contribution on income from capital and wealth. As a result, we have, in fact, laid the foundations for a much more universal and solidarity-based social protection. So my first question concerns the immediate impact of this measure: can you tell us the profits, in terms of purchasing power, for all employees, and especially for the most modest ones? My second question concerns the immediate macroeconomic consequences of this shift. We know that rising incomes have an impact on household consumption. Have you estimated the effect of this measure on future consumption and economic growth? Finally, and in a more forward-looking way, given the natural upward trend in health spending in developed countries and our desire to secure career paths, have you carried out prospective studies on the benefits of this reform in terms of securing the purchasing power of employees in the medium term?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u115	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u116	Mr President, you are asking me about the impact of the universalisation of social protection on purchasing power. To answer your first question, let me first remind you that the shift in sickness and unemployment contributions to the CSG benefits all employees. Thus, as of 1 January 2018, sickness contributions – amounting to 0.75% – have been abolished and unemployment contributions have been reduced by 1.45% for all employees, which represents a gain as early as January, especially for those who receive the lowest wages. Moreover, as of their first contribution maturity in June 2018, three-quarters of the self-employed will also see their net income increase as a result of the measures we have taken. Finally, as of 1 October 2018, the total abolition of unemployment and sickness contributions will allow a sustainable redistribution of €7 billion to 21 million employees and self-employed, for an average annual gain of more than €300 net. As you have also pointed out, this shift is part of a package of measures to promote purchasing power, particularly for the most modest employees. As of October 2018, as I have already mentioned several times this evening, the reduction in the housing tax will allow an average gain of 170 euros per year for more than 17 million households. Moreover, for the most modest French, the activity premium will increase by 20 euros per month on 1 October 2018 for all beneficiaries, i.e. 2.6 million households, and this increase will continue until 2021, up to 20 euros per month each year, for beneficiaries whose income is between 0.5 and 1.2 SMIC, which will amount to 80 euros per month at the end of the quinquennium. Finally, as of 1 October 2018, the supplement of free choice of mode of custody will be upgraded by 30% and, as of 1 November, the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities will be increased by €50. The second question you asked invites us to include the measures that we have undertaken in the 2018 finance law in the growth movement in France. These measures designed to pay better for work necessarily have a beneficial effect on consumption in a country where it is the latter that derives economic growth. On the other hand, the contribution base is expanded as it applies to both activity and replacement income, wealth and investment income, and gaming income. Thus, in a context of economic growth, we will receive additional revenue, which will allow us to finance expenses, such as those related to health, with the control of ONDAM – the national health insurance expenditure target – at a level of 2.3%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u117	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u118	Secretary of State, the freezing of the index point from 2010 to 2015 created a feeling of injustice and deconsideration among public service employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u119	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u120	On the one hand, this state of mind stems from a political discourse by successive governments, which has highlighted a certain effort to limit public expenditure and, on the other hand, from a different reading of remuneration depending on whether it is made by the State or by trade unions. However, during this period, if the index point has not changed, the GIPA – an individual guarantee of purchasing power – has ensured that the gross treatment is maintained in the face of inflation. On the other hand, the drop in staff as a result of the RMPP – a general review of public policies – was offset by an increase in salaries. At the same time, workers benefited from social and tax relief on overtime, and the lowest wages benefited from the indexation of the minimum salary on the SMIC. Yet, despite the attempts to display all governments, public spending in France has continued to grow, reaching a record level of 56.4% of GDP in 2016. Within this expenditure, the increase in remuneration was around 20% over 10 years, when the number of staff remained relatively stable. It therefore appears that, from both a macroeconomic and an individual perspective, the overall remuneration of public servants has continued to rise in recent years. Adding to this the overall increase in the index point of 1.2% for 2016 and 2017, and the signing of the PPCR – a protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration – which started in 2016, the picture seems rather positive. However, with the increase of the CSG of 1.7% since January 1, 2018 and the one-year suspension of the PPCR, public service agents, who were waiting at a minimum to preserve their purchasing power, continue to maintain wage claims, and many are talking about a new loss of purchasing power. Despite the mechanisms put in place in recent months to compensate for the increase in the CSG, trade union organisations and agents denounce a decrease in the purchasing power of civil servants. What do you attribute these claims to and do you think they are legitimate? Furthermore, while you have started negotiations with the social partners, one of the themes of which is precisely the evolution of public officials' remuneration policies, could you tell us what provisions guarantee the maintenance of the purchasing power of public servants?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u121	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u122	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, what does it seem to you to be the impact of the suspension of the PPCR and the implementation of its measures decided in 2016 and 2017 on the purchasing power of the agents concerned?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u123	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u124	Madam Member, you have recalled, the officials, the public officials have been asked; efforts were requested, with the freezing of the index point from 2010 to 2016. They then benefited from an increase of 0.6 points in 2016, then the same amount again in early 2017. We are currently having discussions with their representatives, in particular to ensure that the tools guaranteeing the purchasing power of the agents are maintained. For example, career development, with the different methods of advancement and what is sometimes called the technical old age shift – GVT. You mentioned a number of measures that have been taken, such as the individual guarantee of purchasing power – GIPA – or the lowest wage indexation devices. Today, we have a discussion on two topics. The first is to determine how we could better individualize the compensation of officers, so as to recognize the work of those who are most involved, both individually and collectively: this is the subject of one of the public service renovation projects that we have opened. Our second area of discussion concerns the upgrading of the salaries of public officials who are among the most difficult and less well valued occupations. For example, Gérald Darmanin, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, referred to the situation of nurses. We have indicated to the trade unions that we are open to discussion with them in order to define the list of trades in favour of which a catch-up policy would be justified. Finally, we agreed, with these same organizations, to a salary appointment, which will take place in mid-June 2018 – and not in October, as originally planned, so that it can intervene before the establishment of the "ceiling letters" that the Prime Minister will address to the ministers. This meeting will be an opportunity to examine which trades could thus be upgraded, to measure the impact of recent measures, including the implementation of the PPCR, and to consider with trade union organisations developments in the field of purchasing power. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As far as the PPCR is concerned, the measures of 2016 and 2017 are almost all taken; There are only a few ten decrees missing. I was this morning at the Conseil Supérieur de la Civil Service d'État to reissue decrees concerning the retroactive application of the 2016 and 2017 measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u125	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u126	Mr Secretary of State, Article 15 of the Law of 20 November 2012 on Overseas Economic Regulation introduced into our law what was termed "price-quality shield". This arrangement provided for the State representative in the overseas departments to negotiate annually, as you have recalled, an agreement to moderate the overall price of a limited list of current consumer products. This negotiation takes place with professional organizations in the retail sector, their suppliers, as well as with shipping companies and freight forwarders. While this economic regulatory framework had been evaluated at the end of 2013 with a great deal of communication reinforcement, we have not been able to find any more information on its implementation. Yet it was beneficial for the purchasing power of the most vulnerable overseas. As you know, our overseas countries are facing massive structural unemployment. This is the case in Guadeloupe, where 23% of the population does not find employment; This figure rises to 47% among our young people under 25 years of age. In addition, 21% of the population lives below the local poverty line of 588 euros, which corresponds – be it well – to 49% of people living below the national poverty line – set at 1015 euros. In addition, social tensions are becoming increasingly evident in the various ultramarine territories. I am thinking, for example, of the crises of the university hospital, chlordecone, sargasses or even water in Guadeloupe. Mr Secretary of State, the overseas countries want to know where the implementation of the price-quality shield is, the aim of which is precisely to preserve the purchasing power of ultramarine households.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u128	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u129	Mr. MP, the Government shares your concern about the need to mobilise all existing tools to improve the purchasing power of ultramarine consumers. The price-quality shield that you mentioned, created for this purpose in 2012, and since applied every year, contributes to price control in the overseas departments. As a reminder – as you have pointed out – the mechanism provides for the prefect to organise annual negotiations between stakeholders, i.e. professional organizations in the retail sector and their suppliers, as well as shipping companies and freight forwarders. These negotiations must lead to the conclusion of a price moderation agreement, in the form of an overall price for a list of current consumer products – foodstuffs, body hygiene, household maintenance, or school supplies. Far from being abandoned, the price-quality shield is therefore always applied. The negotiations in Guadeloupe led to the signing of an agreement on 28 February under the aegis of the Prefect, under which the maximum overall price of the products of the price-quality shield in your department is set at 356 euros. However, your question seems to indicate the need to strengthen local communication – in your view insufficient – on this shield. It should also be recalled that the scheme allowed price ceilings to be almost stable between 2015 and 2018. In addition, the share of local products in the list of products of the shield has increased, reaching, for example, almost 50 per cent in Reunion. This is an objective that could be achieved in other departments. The nutritional quality of the products taken into account has finally been improved. However, beyond the inadequacy of the communication that you regret, this mechanism deserves to be strengthened. Indeed, prices in retail stores are frequently below the ceilings agreed under this scheme, suggesting that shields are fixed at a level that is not binding on distributors. The mechanism is, therefore, even more unknown to consumers. The Minister for Overseas Affairs is open to discussions to determine how to improve not only communication but also the actual effectiveness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u130	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u131	Mr. Secretary of State, my question is about the personal services tax credit. Occulted by the media debate on the increase in the CSG, strong measures contributing to the purchasing power of our seniors must be clearly defended and promoted here. In addition to the increase in the minimum old age, which takes effect this month with an increase of 30 euros – it will have been a total of 100 euros in 2020 – pensioners can, from this year onwards, benefit from the personal services tax credit. This allowance, which is payable as a result of expenses incurred for the employment of an employee at home, makes it possible to deduct half of the expenses incurred from income tax, up to a ceiling of between 12000 and 20000 euros. To the extent that it is a rebateable tax credit, and not a tax reduction, non-taxable persons may also benefit from it. Previously reserved for assets only, this credit is open to all taxpayers this year. Secretary of State, we are at your side to do a pedagogy on the reforms undertaken which, beyond the polemics, improve the daily lives of the most modest French and facilitate their keeping at home. Thus, 1.3 million households are expected to benefit from this tax credit; the portion of their remaining expenses is expected to decrease by at least 20%. This measure, whose cost is estimated at EUR 1 billion for the State, will cover more than half of those over 80 years of age. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Secretary of State, can you provide us with specific data on the profits of this tax credit?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u132	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u133	Madam Member, you were right to recall the measures taken in favour of our seniors, particularly the most fragile, with, in particular, the increase in the minimum age of 30 euros per month since 1 April – and 35 euros per month in 2019 and 2020, to 900 euros, which is a total increase of 100 euros per month. This will be one of the most important adjustments ever made in this area. You also highlighted the fact that the budget for 2018 has expanded the eligibility of pensioners for the personal employment tax credit at home. It should be added, to supplement the elements of your question, that this device has been made accessible to persons with disabilities who, so far, were not eligible for it. Thus, 1.3 million households will be able to benefit, which is, as you have pointed out, an effort for the State of the order of 1 billion euros. The tax credit will be refunded to households, who will receive a payment when their tax is less than the deductible amount. It is a source of pride for the Government, and I think it must be for the majority as well, that it has voted for a measure to strengthen employment at home, in all our territories, while at the same time empowering pensioners, as well as persons with disabilities, when they need it, to benefit from personal services. One element will allow us to perfect this device. We asked the Inspectorate General of Finance to see to what extent the allocation of this tax credit could be "contemporaneized" with the expenditure incurred. The goal is simple. We are in a logic of implementing the levy at source with strict contemporaneity of income and tax collection and we want to do the same for the tax credit for home employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u134	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u135	My question is about the purchasing power of retired women. Today, these eight million women receive an average pension of 25 per cent lower than their male alter egos and suffer a three-point higher poverty rate. These women over 60 years of age lived and worked in France where, for equal work, they received just 60 per cent of men's wages; a France where the stable married couple prevailed and or being single or divorced while raising their children with dignity demanded great courage. France has changed a lot since then and that is good news. It is probably one of the most remarkable achievements of our majority to accelerate this movement towards more equal pay at work and support for single-parent families. Women now retired may rejoice for their daughters but is it sure that their daughters always rejoice for them? This is particularly true for the 1.2 million women who are single and divorced in retirement. Minister, equality between women and men, as well as promises of purchasing power, cannot stop at the gates of retirement. My colleague Sacha Houlié recently proposed the restoration of half the widows, who number 2.5 million in France. This is a way to improve the purchasing power of retired women but it does not solve the problem of divorced or unmarried women, which are ever more numerous. This implies public expenditure in fact, but social justice does not exclude tax revenue! Let us remember that reducing wage inequalities between assets to zero would inject $62 billion into our economy and generate $34 billion in tax revenues. How much do you think would bring about equality between retired women and men? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] My question is simple: can you tell us the state of your thoughts and the perspective that we can give to these women who are suffering a double penalty in terms of purchasing power because of their sex and their matrimonial choices?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u136	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u137	Madam Member, you have referred to the way in which the half-tax share of widows and widows, paid to the debate by one of your colleagues, has been restored. As you said yourself, this measure would be incomplete; It does not concern divorced women or women who have been single-parent families. At the same time, this would represent a public expenditure of EUR 1.7 billion, which is considerable. I would like to give you two points of answer, and first tell you what we are doing, with the presidential majority, to accompany the most modest families, especially single-parent families. You have voted for a 30% increase in the supplement of free choice of care for single-parent families, which is intended to enable them to finance the care of their children outside the collective crèche. Depending on the family configurations, the number of hours of care and the income of the family, the amount of this monthly allowance may be up to 250 euros per month from 1st October 2018. In addition, as of 1 April 2018, the family support allowance was increased for single parents who do not receive alimony or a pension of less than 104 euros per month. Finally, the increased amount of family supplement has been upgraded by €16.80 for the most modest families of three or more children, also as of April 1, 2018. The objective is clearly to better support single-parent families and to ensure that the women you mentioned, who often work and raise their children alone, can be better accompanied. Behind your question was a broader issue than the measures to correct inequalities or to compensate for the difficulties encountered, that of equality, in the private sector and in the public. Work is being done, under the aegis of Marlène Schiappa in particular, to address wage inequalities between women and men with equal responsibilities in the private sector. In particular with regard to the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, on 9 March we relaunched the consultations aimed at renewing the 2013 agreement on gender equality, the last agreement signed unanimously by the nine trade unions, with the main objective of resorption of inequalities of treatment between women and men, since even in the public service a number of factors lead to inequalities. We want to remove them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u138	We conclude with a question by Mr Jean Lassalle, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u139	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot conceal my sadness at seeing two Frances moving away every day a little more from each other. I am not going, Mr Secretary of State, to charge you with facts for which this government is not responsible, but to question you about situations that should have led you to change the policy that has been going on for ten months and which explain why the men and women of my home, and perhaps indeed, are not happy. In my constituency, it is a gendarmerie company that disappears in Mauléon, perhaps soon followed by the slaughterhouse; It is the Auteuil Apprentices Foundation which, doubtless considering that it is no longer possible to train apprentices in the countryside, relocates eighty jobs to Pau, more than fifty kilometres away. No one thought it was right to stand in the way of these decisions, no one in the government, and not even the mayor of Pau – whom I know very well. Never more teaching positions in my constituency have been abolished than this year. The motherhood of Oloron-Sainte-Marie closed, condemning the hospital to death as well. I have just learned that Saint-Claude's maternity in the Jura, with which we fought hand in hand, has finally closed today: it concerns 480 people. Dozens of women, it seems, were crying tonight in front of the heavy chain locks that prohibited their entry. Mr Secretary of State, it is more than time to act. What do you intend to do so that the deputies of the majority do not end up in cannon flesh as those of the previous majorities have ended?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u140	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u141	Mr President, your question concerns the organisation of care and employment in the community rather than purchasing power. You mentioned the Auteuil Apprentices Foundation. I must confess that I am not aware of the file you have cited regarding the possibility of setting up or developing training in your constituency. On the other hand, I can tell you in general that the associations will benefit from the shift between the CICE and the general reduction of charges of EUR 1.4 billion in the coming years, in addition to the tax credit for associative employment that was voted for a few months ago. It is the Government's will to support associations that can create jobs and help them, as we help companies to reduce the burdens that this can entail. With regard to the provision of care in your territory, including maternity care, I can assure you that the Minister of Health and Solidarity is examining each situation with the utmost attention. It is attentive to the presence of a care offer throughout the country: this involves the development of health homes and the work it carries out with the organizations of health professionals. It also has a special focus on security issues. When we are confronted with problems of closure or questioning the existence of a particular service, especially in rural areas such as those which you know as many of us, this is the result of two factors and first of all the absence of specialists, difficult to recruit in territories far from the metropolises. This topic refers to Agnès Buzyn's work in reforming the hospital sector and ensuring a medical presence everywhere. This may also sometimes be because, under a number of procedures, the safety of patients, of parturients in the case of maternity mothers, is not absolutely guaranteed. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Health and Solidarity to the case of the two maternity wards you have mentioned. You will understand that, as Secretary of State to the Minister responsible for Public Action and Accounts, I do not necessarily have all the information on the functioning of these two departments at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u142	The question session on the Government's purchasing power policy has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u143	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u144	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u145	The next item is the debate on the information report by the Committee on Social Affairs on housing establishments for dependent elderly people. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear the rapporteurs as well as the speakers of the groups and then the Government. We will then move on to a sequence of questions and answers. Let me remind you that the length of questions and answers is limited to two minutes. Mrs Iborra, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u146	Mr President, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating this evening is the first parliamentary report which specifically concerns accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – EHPAD. The recent report of the Senate, which was also disappointing and poor in terms of proposals, has, however, had the merit of drawing up a diagnosis which is very similar to the one which I had already made in the course of the flash mission, and which had been approved by the majority of the groups of the Committee on Social Affairs. This is no coincidence, for if there have been debates, proposals in the past, no decision has been taken, no fundamental choice has been made. The creation of the fifth risk has been abandoned in favour of reforms which are not understandable by those who should benefit from them, reforms which are highly technocratic and which have allowed only partial and limited progress. The decree issued in 2017 pursuant to the 2015 law on the adaptation of society to ageing – the ASV law – has produced a tariff reform which, at the very least, is difficult to implement, since, at your request, the minister requires the intervention of a mediator. It is now known that this reform worsens inequalities because of the dependency package, financed by the departmental councils, which the mission is calling for the suspension. What about today? The flash mission that I was rapporteur for in September 2017 allowed to hear more than twenty groups of actors and led to proposals that were followed by the Government, notably in the law on the financing of social security. In accordance with the diagnosis, it continued with a parliamentary mission, which made 31 proposals. It is not a partisan report, but a document that sets out the realities on the ground: twenty-one trips to France in EHPADs of different statutes, five months of parliamentary work, trips to all regions, urban or rural, two trips to the Netherlands and Denmark. We have favoured this approach, while some write their reports from their offices. The subject does not lend itself to any political recovery, nor to overbidding. It also does not lend itself to trivialisation or denial of a situation that is and remains worrying. The objective pursued was that of the general interest, without giving way to any pressure, wherever it came from. Of course, there is no question of listing the 31 proposals, but I would like to focus on three themes set out in the report. The first part of the unanimous observation is that, in view of the increased dependence of the residents accommodated, care is unsatisfactory, both in terms of the quality of care and the quality of life of the people. This can be seen, in particular, in the number of people who are asking for care, but also in the support to meet what we would like to be this last stage of life – I am talking about nursing assistants and nurses. The urgent allocation of new skills employment contracts could initially improve the required management rate. The second point concerns the necessary acceleration towards a new model of EHPAD, desired not only by the majority of actors but also by the elderly met: establishments open to the outside, offering services organised according to a logic of life course, using new technologies, evaluated, operating according to a division between the different actors. In this regard, it would be necessary for the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy – CNSA – to specifically push the financing of these experiments, which would then be assessed very seriously. The third theme: deeply renewed governance and funding to support model change. The current system is characterized by a multiplicity of actors, by double governance, both at national and local and territorial level, by a technocratic aspect which is not easily understood by our fellow citizens, who are, moreover, little associated with this issue which concerns them in the first place. As a result of the public meetings that I organize, however, I can testify to the interest and expectation of people, regardless of their origin and age.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u147	We must conclude, dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u148	I'm finishing, Mr. President. The rest, which is high in France, and the possibility of receiving social assistance for those who need it most, must be reviewed. It must be made more transparent, whereas it is now the sole responsibility of the departmental councils. In conclusion, Mr.President, Madam Minister, in this area, as in many others, we need boldness – a boldness that undoubtedly disturbs conservatism, wherever it comes from. However, Parliament cannot at any time withdraw from the debate or be content with measures of limited effectiveness, serving particular interests. The legislator and the Government, by involving citizens, have a societal obligation of result. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is what this mission has tried to initiate and what should be pursued.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u149	Mrs Caroline Fiat, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u150	Madam Minister, when I arrived in your office on 13 March, I can tell you today, I was filled with emotion. What a way we've come! The little caregiver had talked so much about it with her colleagues: "What we need is for one of us to meet with the minister, explain our daily lives and, above all, explain the suffering of our residents..." When I entered your office, I felt that we were thousands as if, unconsciously, all my colleagues were following me. The tears came up to my eyes, maybe you noticed. I will not go back to this moment of astonishment when you told us that you had studied the report since the night before, even though the Commissioners had not yet received it. Let's go back to the essentials. That's it, I was there. I was in front of you, with an overwhelming report. We have presented to you the 31 important points of our report. I will go back to what seems to me the most urgent to finally respond to this health emergency: we propose to double the number of caregivers and nurses at the foot of the resident. This proposal is a minimum standard, finally, to put everything down and allow our seniors to benefit from the minimum of protocol care. Sixty paramedics or nurses per 100 residents are only one hour and thirty per resident for twenty-four hours. Maybe you think it's too much? If some of us here don't know what that is, I'll tell them. A protocol toilet is twenty-five minutes; Six changes a day, forty minutes – and again, it's fast; three food aid, thirty minutes. Stop, we're about an hour and thirty-five! You see that the minimum standard of one hour and thirty is really not exaggerated. Your response to our appointment literally icing my blood: "I don't think we need to review the standards for staff at the foot of the resident's bed, because not all residents have the same demands. There is a need to review the organisation of work tasks and management. » You'll allow me to come back to these two points. First of all, regarding the organisation of tasks and management, I reminded you what an hour and thirty of care per resident was. Currently, we, the caregivers, have about 22 minutes per resident per day. Twenty-two, on a day of 1440 minutes! You can reorganise, you can put the best managers in France and Navarre, it won't work! Then, not all residents have the same needs: finally, we agree! Like that you can never despair. But while some residents may be satisfied with a little less time, others are more demanding. They need a lot more time. Ah, human beings! Many conversations and contradictions... That being said, every human being has a right: the right to human rights and health. According to the World Health Organization – WHO – human rights are a universal legal guarantee for the protection of individuals and groups from actions that violate fundamental freedoms and human dignity. Some of their most important features are the following. They are guaranteed by international standards. So, strongly the European Union's requirement for a minimum standard! They are legally protected. Does that mean, Madam Minister, that now, having known about our report, our elders who have been abused in EHPAD could turn against you? They focus on the dignity of the human being: with an hour and thirty of care in twenty-four hours, we are on the minimum of dignity! They are binding on States and their agencies: it must be noted that other countries, such as those visited by the mission, have truly seized these challenges. Denmark devotes 3 points of GDP to its seniors and the Netherlands 4 points. We are far below because we reach only 1 point. These rights cannot be suspended or withdrawn: it is not because you become old that you lose your rights. They are interdependent and indivisible. From your earliest age to your last days, no one will be able to compel you to institutional abuse. They are universal: everyone is entitled to it – elderly person with neurodegenerative disease, elderly person at the end of life, elderly person without a fixed home, elderly person with little income, simply elderly person. As you can see, Madam Minister, being limited by time, I was only able to go back to the minimum standard. I have not been able to talk to you about pricing, access to EHPAD for all those affected by social assistance and, alas, even less about lucrative private EHPADs treating our elders as silver gold – grey gold, unworthy, execrable, unbearable thought! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I just want to make it clear that this health emergency does not, alas, concern the EHPADs: all health facilities suffer. As I told you last July, minister, as a doctor, you have the opportunity to treat our health care system. Don't miss this historic opportunity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u151	We come to the speakers in the groups. Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u152	I'm going to speak directly to you, the paramedics, the nurses, the directors of EHPAD, the families of course, and the old residents too. It is not very polite, but I am speaking to you directly, above the minister, over the House. Why? Because, as you know, we all know here: what will become of this information report No. 769 on accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people? Nothing. What will the Government do with it? Nothing. Put it in a closet. Forget it in a corner. Put it on the stack of other reports. Anyway, bury him. He'll do it quietly. He'll do it without saying it. It will do so by swearing, and the minister is very good at it, that, on the contrary, this report contains very valuable elements, that these data will feed a reflection, which should be considered for a mission, which could lead to a plan, and patati and patata. Anyway, smoke screens. We're used to it. But why would they want to bury him? Because this report is screaming. He shouts loudly. On page 8, it is stated that "substantial understaffing in relation to the medical needs of residents results in both a deterioration of working conditions and an "institutional abuse". The expression is dropped. And we find it over the chapters: "institutional abuse", "passive abuse" "abuse" all short. "Institutional maltreatment" is a raw but somewhat abstract formula. I would like to make it more concrete, to put on top of life, a face, that of my parliamentary attaché, Brigitte. Until last year, until my election, she worked as a caregiver in an EHPAD in Amiens. The first time I met her, she told me: "I call it the old factory. It's the cata. We're three paramedics for 85 patients! » When I asked her if, at times, she felt that she was at the limit of abuse, she exclaimed: "But it's daily! There, for example, we have an epidemic of gastros, with 26 cases. We didn't have masks, no painkillers, no disinfectant, nothing to wash our hands: we had to go from five patients to more than twenty in three days! I made feet and hands. The technical agents managed, they took their car, and they finally found some product. » And Brigitte to tell me, in the middle of all this, a little anecdote, annodine, banal. "We have a couple of old people. The woman had a stroke, she's in a wheelchair, and she's suffering from anxiety attacks. The only way to calm her down is her husband: only he can calm her down. Now, there, her husband caught the gastro, so we put him on another floor. The lady's calling for help, she's in the hallway screaming, "My hiccup! My biquet! Where's my biquet?" It may sound funny, but you have to hear it, with its totally desperate voice: "My buffalo! Help me! " I'd have some time, I'd put a mask on her, I'd take her upstairs so she could see her husband, it'd appease her. But no, I run, I run, I can't lose half an hour. So she's still crying, "My buffalo! My biquet! " » When I heard this anecdote, I asked her: "And you manage to work, despite these screams? Don't you feel guilty? She says, "We're putting defence mechanisms in place," as if to reassure me. But, in reality, it didn't reassure me at all, these "defense mechanisms": I was worried, on the contrary! Defense mechanisms, either, but against what? I will tell you: against the best of ourselves; against tenderness; against empathy. You have to train indifference. It is necessary to keep compassion at a distance, to dry up the soul, to freeze humanity in itself, to make our heart deaf to an old lady who, full of anguish, full of love too, screams "My buffalo! My biquet! » It takes this, it takes this drought to make the system work; so that toilets, meals, medicines can be chained up; for the tasks to be completed over a timed day. The human, in all this, is a nuisance, time lost, complications. We can imagine the tension, the conflict at home, the thousands of Brigitte in the country. Why did you turn to care? To cure. Out of tenderness, out of empathy, out of compassion. And it is this part of yourself that you have to shut up, that you have to crush. One day, worn out, the defenses are ceding, and it's like a dam breaking, like a dike collapsing. It's the big crack. It is the burn-out, which wreaks havoc in these care professions. Not just because of overwork: no, it's not, it's not understanding anything. It's because of the meaning, first of all, of the meaning of your work. It's not nothing, work. We're delivering his best energies. It's a gift of self. We're offering her time. So if it's for, at the time of arrival, to stifle him, this work, the sense is lost, he derails himself, and emerges in front of him an immense "for what good? " There is worse, even: leaving his day of work with this bitter taste, this disgust, in fact, of having mistreated the old, by shaking them for the toilet, pressing them for meals, abandoning them on the bowl. It was so far an individual feeling, which everyone felt in their corner, and which was therefore lived as a shame. But in recent months, this feeling has become collective. Here it spreads in nursing homes. Now he proclaims himself, even on TVs, radios, newspapers. Now the word is free. And that's why I'm talking to you. To you directly, the caregivers, the nurses, the directors of EHPAD, the families of course, and the old residents. Because you're the only hope. This report, I said, they'll make confetti. It'll be used in the cat's car. In fact, it seems that the rapporteurs themselves fear this terrible fate. From page 13, which traces the history of the EHPADs, we read the title: "Debates, reports: no decision". And below, these few lines, disillusioned in advance: "The last fifteen years have been distinguished by the density of the debate on issues of dependency, giving rise to many proposals, whose mission regrets that few of them have been implemented. And without you, it is assured, it is guaranteed: nothing will be implemented. Mrs Buzyn confirmed it in her own way, that is, with all her tact and courtesy. This report, which, as I said, denounces the enormous understaffing that leads to institutional abuse, what common-sense measure does it suggest? That the rate of supervision at bedside be doubled to 60 caregivers per cent residents. And what did the minister say? Niet. And for what reason? I quote: "France does not have the budgetary means to guarantee this rate. » You know, we're causing institutional abuse, but it's an abuse that comes from above; it is a ministerial mistreatment; It's a budget abuse. Allow me a parenthesis. On the benches right in front of me, I see only women: Mrs Buzyn Minister, Mrs Bourguignon Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Iborra and Mrs Fiat Members and Rapporteurs. As if it were a women's business – the old, the care, the health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u153	What about us?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u154	While at the Ministry of Economy, you have Mr. Le Maire; to the Ministry of Budget, Mr Darmanin; to the Chair of the Finance Committee, Mr Woerth. Well, ladies, revolt! Let women's ministries stop being mistreated by men's ministries! Because how much did the minister put on the table for the EHPADs? 50 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u155	Oh! No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u156	Fifty million! It's no longer a budget, it's an alms! She's no longer a minister, she's a lady bossess! Do we think we're abusing people with such sums? Maybe we can figure out that after a number of zeros, people can't count anymore? We'll light them up, then. To remove the tax on wealth, France had the budgetary means – and it was in billions. For the tax credit competitiveness employment, France had the budgetary means, and it was in tens of billions. And for your friends at CAC 40 this year, we're close to 100 billion profits. But for its old people, France, the world's sixth largest economic power, "does not have the budgetary means". Yes, I say "old." I was told that I should change that, that "old people" would be better, that it was disrespectful. I'd rather not. I prefer not to join the camp of hypocrites, tartuffes that multiply the oratory precautions, the euphemisms, the refined turns, but to better disguise cruel acts. Yes, cruel. As we know, now it's written: considerable understaffing leads to institutional abuse. Evil is known, its cause too, it is a member of the majority who posts it, and yet we know that the Government will consider it urgent to wait. We'll dress it up with blabla, tact and courtesy, we'll order a new mission, we'll... Unless. Unless you, caregivers, nurses, directors of EHPAD, families, old residents, go out on the street. Unless you're on strike. Unless you're testifying on an EHPAD MeToo. Don't think it's pointless. Don't believe him. They'd like to instill this, the poison of resignation. But we are in the House and we hear them, we see them closely, the ministers, the powerful: well when you are outside, when you protest, these powerful people do not speak the same. They were no longer sweeping the criticisms with a back of their hands. Their tone really changes. So, ladies and gentlemen who hold our EHPADs standing up, who hold dignity to the threshold of death, my little speech has only one function: don't be discouraged! Don't give up! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] "In every era," writes philosopher Pascal Chabot, "humanism must change its struggles. [...] A task is assigned to him [today]: to put economic and technical logics in their secondary place, so that they continue to serve more interesting, more metaphysical and more tender purposes." That's our job. Here's our fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u158	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u159	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the French tour of hospitals, which was engaged by the Communist parliamentarians, I was on Friday in Aubagne, in a public institution. In this institution that needs renovation, where you can barely move between tables at meal time, you would need more staff, you would need a speech therapist, you would need more time for physiotherapy, etc. Our public institutions lack resources and the reform of pricing has further exacerbated the situation. This is shared by the EHPAD of Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône, where the budget was rejected by the board of directors. I have observed another situation in Couhé, in Vienna, where a large part of the population is mobilized, together with the staff, against the project of the community of communes to sell two establishments to the private. In Fos-sur-mer, where EHPAD is the property of a private group, the staff is in arrears and denounces the pressure exerted on them, all this to pay for pension funds. Everywhere, a situation of acute crisis. Every time, however, I was struck by the tremendous dedication of staff – caregivers, facilitators, nurses, doctors. They do a work of precious essence: they take care of humans, of humans, at a time when life fades, forces diminish, and one can no longer give its full measure. They don't want EHPADs to be places of suffering. They show know-how, professional commitment, tenderness, and they do so on our behalf, in the name of humanity. The right of everyone to full development at every age of life cannot suffer any relativity. It must be guaranteed to everyone, and not simply to those who have the means to do so. It is a question of social and territorial justice. There should be no profit to be made on the backs of our elders. To this end, a strong public service is needed, able to accommodate or accompany the elderly at home, in both cases, in order to maintain them at the maximum level of autonomy. To meet the needs, a growth and conquest movement is needed for new generation institutions, a major investment plan accompanied by a major training, qualification and recruitment plan. This is already an emergency today as the population ages and it is announced that the number of dependent seniors will increase threefold by 2060. These occupations, most of which are now carried out by women, must cease to be deconsidered and poorly remunerated. There are among those who exercise it devotion, of course, but also suffering, anger, revolt. The lack of resources leads to a waste and their dedication deserves better. To respect our elders, we must first respect the staff who deal with them. All this is expensive, some say. Who would say this to his father or mother: "Taking care of you is expensive"? That is why all this is unbearable. Institutional abuse will not be addressed by a plan, but by real means, and perhaps by standards. In this regard, the Assembly's annual vote on a "national health insurance expenditure target" – ONDAM – which covers all health expenditures, including those we are talking about, is a real problem that needs to be addressed. Yes, taking care is an investment. The means exist. But is the political will there? Today, the rest for families is imposing: 1949 euros per month on average. Many families cannot afford to take care of it – let alone what is not quantified: I am thinking of the work of caregivers. Consideration should therefore also be given to the treatment of the costs associated with the deterioration of the health status of persons, including accommodation. There is no need to create a fifth branch, and to make it all a pataquès: one must turn to health insurance. It's an urgent project. The report presented by Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat, whom I would like to thank for their work, makes an unrelenting observation and makes concrete and numerous proposals. What we want is to know what you will do with it, minister. This report must not be left unanswered: it must be translated into action; He must urge us to take this question with his arms and to give him answers. We must no longer simply manage the emergency, manage the crisis: we must decide to launch a new momentum. The right to health, a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being as defined by the WHO, must not disappear with age, otherwise it is the whole existence that is being attacked. Humanity must be preserved throughout life by beating the heart as hard as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This is a question of civilization, which is asked of us by the caregivers, by the nurses and by all the staff, with the families and future residents of our country: a question of civilization, not in theory but in practice, at the most concrete level of things and the human body.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u161	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u162	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is the issue of ageing and longevity that I want to talk to you about tonight. Age politics can only be associated with social, progressive, but also profoundly humanistic values. Paying special attention to the most vulnerable is a dignified, citizen-gathering fight. The way we view our elders reflects our perception of our own humanity. Age advancement should not only be seen as a burden for our society, let alone a disease. Ageing is universal; It can go hand in hand with a happy longevity, but also with addiction. Ageing goes through all social classes. The answer must therefore be collective and republican. Putting ageing in perspective at a time when only its precariousness and its cost occupy all media spaces gives us the opportunity to ask ourselves in the Chamber about the place we want to give to older people in our society. For too long, public policies have preferred to address dependency by the cost it entails, and action focuses on reducing this cost to the State and to communities, thus generating a dynamic of reaction rather than anticipation. It's time to change our vision of things. We all now have a challenge together: the challenge of demographic transition. According to a Court of Auditors report of July 2016, the number of people over eighty is expected to double between 2010 and 2060, reaching more than 8 million. At the same time, the number of dependent elderly people is expected to rise to 2 million. We must work together to make it a dignified, humanistic and efficient societal success. That is the whole meaning and purpose of the parliamentary work initiated by Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat, which I greet here and thank for their report. Entry into the dependency is not inevitable. Professor Berrut, responsible for the management of the Pays de la Loire region, points out in his latest book that the adaptation of our society to the demographic transition "must be at the height of the major challenges of the energy transition and the new world relations". In fact, dependency currently affects only 10% of those over 75 years of age. On average, 85% of aging people have and maintain a self-sustaining life. The majority of our elders or future elders are going and will be fine. This population is full of resources. It contributes to the associative fabric, transgenerational ties. It carries expertise, a real knowledge economy, which can and must contribute to the creation of values and wealth for our society. This new longevity must be a chance for all of us. But let us not forget the most vulnerable elderly people and their loved ones. Let us not only see addiction as a problem or a scourge. Our concern and consideration about it are the markers of a united and concerned country. It is also for this reason that the problem of financing arises. The EHPAD crisis we are going through is an opportunity to show our ability to adapt to the transformations of our society. That is the whole meaning of the ongoing work of our government and of our majority. The measures to strengthen our health budgets for the most difficult EPHADs defended by the Minister, and which we welcome, are a first step; But we must also work in depth, over the long term. For example, it is necessary to rethink: the day-to-day support of residents with cognitive disorders, for example through the generalisation of the appropriate clusters of activities and care – PASA; simplifying the sources of funding of our institutions and their homogeneity from one department to another; the separation between the city and the hospital but above all between the EHPAD and the home; the recognition of the know-how of our paramedics; the attractiveness of a specific health care sector in gerontology. It would be illusory to believe that a successful demographic transition would go only through an increase in the number of places in housing for dependent elderly people. This would imply that we only anticipate aging through the spectrum of dependency and loss of autonomy, while tomorrow's EHPAD must be rethought in its environment and be integrated into the new longevity path that is open to us. The complexity of our territories and the prerogatives shared between the regional health agencies – ARS – the departments and municipalities participate in the entropy of an entire system that has become unfit for the necessary reactivity for the next few years. We need to develop outpatient geriatric assessment networks, build on follow-up and rehabilitation care, transform our geriatric health system and invent tomorrow's EHPAD. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, our age policy must be ambitious, optimistic, global and, above all, humanistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u163	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u164	A single figure is sufficient to show the need for our society to adapt to the ageing population: life expectancy has increased from 47 years in 1900 to eighty years today. Beyond the demographic projections that can be fanciful, this reality shows the need for an ambitious policy of support for older people, especially when they become dependent. As we all know, the population in our EHPADs has changed a lot. In the 1980s, it was sixty-eight years old, when today residents reach eighty-six years old, much more dependent and with various pathologies. While the 2015 Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing has made some improvements in home care and support for caregivers, it has not resolved the situation of elderly dependents on urgent waiting places in EHPAD. Nor has it solved the problems of pricing for dependency payments: there are significant inequalities between departments. Nor has it solved the problem of the daytime cost, too high, of the inflation of standards, inadequate to the reality of the EHPADs, of the lack of staff trained in the various pathologies. In summary, the 2015 law did not take into account the evolution of the various audiences received and did not provide the necessary funding for this development. In the 1980s, we had nursing homes, homes with a soul, houses with a life, houses with a care team, almost a family. Today, we have modern EHPADs, with the latest standards, sometimes dehumanized, where residents, staff and families can be suffering. EHPADs should be places of life where people are treated, not places of care in which they live. A new model of care must be able to take place, as medicalisation does not mean dehumanization. For having organised meetings with the directors and staff of the EHPAD, for having visited many establishments in my constituency, I know that all agree with the observation made in the report of Mrs Iborra's flash mission, which is widely shared also by all members of the Committee on Social Affairs. With the report by Mrs Iborra and Mrs Fiat, the situation was examined in detail. Thirty-one proposals were made. These include: developing medical homes, as well as telemedical relay points within the EHPADs, an excellent idea already implemented in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region with significant funding; to improve the status of caregiving; to facilitate the right of prescribing of co-ordinators; to upgrade the professions of gerontology;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u165	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u166	... create institutions entirely dedicated to Alzheimer's disease; increase the number of temporary accommodation and day reception places. These are measures of common sense. You also told us about EHPAD "out of walls", which may correspond to a certain audience. However, EHPADs should be primarily places of life. Animations are essential for residents, staff and families. I have not seen any proposal to that effect. We also need to trust the directors of our EHPADs in terms of management and prevention: they each make considerable efforts in their institutions to ensure that our seniors are welcomed and cared for in a dignified manner and that staff can do their job properly. Let's stop the red tape! That is the proposal in the report. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you have understood, the urgency is real and we are facing a real challenge. Courageous political and societal choices must be made. We need to rethink in its entirety the management of ageing, but also, and in parallel, our health system. Rapid measures must be put in place to relieve staff. What resources will be allocated by the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u168	The next speaker is Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u169	The issue of ageing and dependency is a multifaceted challenge. This is a challenge for social cohesion, first of all: while the population over eighty-five is expected to quadruple by 2060, the quality of our social model will be measured by its ability to guarantee the dignity of the elderly and dependent. It is then a budgetary challenge, because we must finance this social model and therefore its preservation. The ageing of the population could lead to additional expenditure in the order of 1.5 percentage points of GDP by 2060. It is also a challenge in terms of purchasing power, since the rest of the population is now at unsustainable levels. Households pay almost €7 billion a year, in addition to the resources provided by national solidarity to cover the costs of dependency. Finally, it is a challenge in terms of simplifying and improving the care of dependents: it is necessary to simplify the real journey of the combatant to which dependents are confronted and to better support families and caregivers. Therefore, in the face of such crucial challenges, we must make every effort to bring lasting and satisfactory solutions to our fellow citizens, for whom the loss of autonomy is a major concern, since they are all faced with it, from close to or from afar. That is why we welcome the important work undertaken since the summer by the Social Affairs Committee and led by our colleagues Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat. Their observation is without appeal: measures must be taken without delay, while the situation is unfortunately already critical in many EHPADs, both for residents and their relatives and for the staff who work there on a daily basis. The proposals made by the co-rapporteurs of the fact-finding mission are in line with a constructive logic, in order to improve the situation, first in the short term, but also in the long term. At the same time, the Minister took this case in arms-to-body, announcing as early as January a plan to accompany the EHPADs, including financial support for institutions in difficulty. The Ombudsman also conducts expert and concerted work on the conditions for deployment and the budgetary consequences of the reform of the financing of EHPADs, which, although necessary, has unfortunately led to negative effects. We welcome the Minister's commitment to neutralize these perverse effects, which affect between 20 and 25 per cent of institutions. More generally, solutions must be found for professionals working in EHPADs, as well as for residents. As regards the former, a national working group bringing together all the actors in the professional branch was set up in autumn 2017 to anticipate the needs in terms of quality of life at work. In addition, a commission on well-contracting set up on 19 February within the framework of the High Council for the Family, Children and Age was set up to propose a national strategy to combat the abuse of older persons and persons with disabilities. The subject is no longer taboo, as we can see, and in-depth work is under way to significantly improve the situation of EHPADs. In order to respond in a comprehensive way to the challenge of dependency, however, the improvement of the management of the loss of institutional autonomy must take place in parallel with the development of the home maintenance of dependent persons. This includes strong mechanisms to support caregivers – that is, families, who play a fundamental role: let's not forget them. Proposals on this subject were also made by Pierre Dharréville and by Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and Charlotte Lecocq in the context of the Social Affairs Committee during the evaluation of the 2015 law on the adaptation of society to ageing. While the number of caregivers is intended to increase, in connection with the increase in the number of people in a situation of dependency due to the ageing of the French population and the increase in chronic diseases, we must without delay take ambitious and innovative measures, as proposed in the report. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] To use the term Monique Iborra, ladies and gentlemen, we need audacity! This is a commitment of the President of the Republic and one of the lines of work of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, which we fully support. Minister, the MODEM Group will be at your side to take this subject with its arms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u170	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u171	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u172	This evening we are debating the conclusions of the fact-finding mission on the situation of EHPAD presented on 14 March to the Committee on Social Affairs by Mrs Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat. I would like to commend the quality of the work done by my colleagues, which takes full account of the serious difficulties faced by the institutions. The well-being of our elders is too important a matter for us not to devote all the attention it deserves. I therefore welcome this new opportunity this evening to deepen our thinking and to discuss this issue further. This report is in line with the previous work of the Committee on Social Affairs. The commission had taken up this matter from the beginning of this legislature, in order to take stock of the situation of the EHPADs. With Charlotte Lecocq, we had, as part of our work to evaluate the law of adaptation of society to aging, very quickly identified one of the main points of stress, that of the pricing of EHPADs. On the occasion of the outcome of our flash mission last September, without calling into question the validity of the principle of tariff convergence provided for by the ASV Act, we called for a moratorium on the application of the new tariff. Its hasty implementation has led to massive and unforeseen financial transfers between institutions, mostly to the benefit of private EHPADs and to the detriment of public EHPADs which do not face the same means and obligations. The National Assembly, the minister, played its warning role. After listening to us, you heard us: on 30 January last, you appointed Mr. Pierre Ricordeau as a tariff mediator. Without even waiting for the end of its mission, in view of the magnitude of the phenomenon, you have taken the decision to accompany the EHPADs for which the convergence was the heaviest, while waiting to find the reasons for such a gap. The report proposes the suspension of this reform; After proposing the moratorium, I think it is now high time to continue the tariff reform, in light of the proposals you have made, Madam Minister. We are also reserved for the first measure of the report, which aims to make a minimum standard of supervision of 0.6 – 60 full-time equivalents per cent resident – effective against third parties within a maximum of four years, which would double the current rate of supervision. While we can agree on the need for better guidance within the EHPADs, I am not convinced that proposing a standard-setting measure, which was not funded and which was recalled in the Committee on Social Affairs' consideration, would cost around EUR 11 billion, which is very productive as it is. However, the suffering of staff working in EHPADs should not be overlooked. We need to support him better and allow him to train throughout the career. It is our duty to refurbish the coat of arms of these professions that we need, in order to encourage the younger generations of nurses and caregivers to practise in these structures, in conjunction with the reflection on the EHPAD of tomorrow. Proposal No 31 of the report aims to organise a transfer of costs from the accommodation package to the other two: "care" and "dependence". While it is obviously necessary to reduce the remaining burden, which generates anxiety and tension within families, it is first and foremost essential to bring all stakeholders together around the table to determine together the conditions for sustainable and sustainable financing of dependency. At this stage, the issue of three-tier pricing may arise. Why not imagine a simpler and more readable system for families, for financers, for directors, for tariff officers? The one-day EHPAD fare is not limited to what the family pays. On a day costing 100, the family certainly takes care of 60, but let us not forget that national solidarity pays 40; Sometimes it seems necessary to remind him. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore agree with you on the need for a major debate on the management of dependency, which I have been calling for for for a long time, and I welcome the courageous announcements by the Minister of Health who said that she wanted to open this building. We're at a crossroads. The file is highly complex as it goes from governance – what about the role of the CNSA? – to the management, with the leading thread the place of the welcomed person who must be the very heart of the decisions that we will make. In this area, Madam Minister, you will find us at your side and we will be able to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u173	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u174	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u175	On all these benches, we measure the worrying situation of residential institutions for dependent elderly. We perceive it through the tense situations of many establishments in our departments and through the unease of the staff, expressed during the two national days of strike on 30 January and 15 March last. In deepening this discussion, we know that beyond the EHPADs, the issue calls for a broader societal debate on caring for the dependency and support of our seniors, especially in institutions, with all the resulting employment, funding and leadership. Before I go further, I would like to recall three inescapable observations. Population ageing is progressing and will continue to grow, reaching 5 million people over eighty-five years of age in 2050. All EHPADs have a high occupancy rate and are expected to increase; This increased from 96.7% in 2011 to 97.5% in 2015. Finally, according to a study published by the Ministry in October, expenditure on old age care is expected to double by 2060 to 2.07 percentage points of GDP. The report of the mission led by Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat pointed to the various problems encountered by the EHPADs. He also drew up a dense list of 31 recommendations. It is clearly necessary to develop the EHPADs of tomorrow now, but we must first respond to a social emergency, keeping in mind the concern for the dignity of the residents and the respect of those who deal with them. The issue must also be addressed through the disparities that mark our territory: a single solution cannot be applied, we must adapt to local frameworks. In the previous quinquennium, the law on the adaptation of society to ageing made it possible to mobilise more than 750 million euros to better support elderly people at home, by appreciably increasing the personalized autonomy allowance – APA –, recognizing the role of the carers and relying on the departments. It is now time to make at least an equivalent effort towards institutions, along the same lines. First, the report highlights the difficulties associated with the lack of qualified staff to ensure proper care. The question of employment is very important because of the low level of management, the difficult working conditions and the lack of attractiveness of these occupations. In addition, the disastrous effects of the end of aided contracts, which is one of the triggers of the social movement, must be added. The Mission proposes to double the ratio of nursing assistants to 60 full-time equivalents per cent resident within a maximum of four years, which would double the current management rate. The recruitment of three additional caregivers in each of France's 7400 EHPADs would cost approximately 700 million euros. More than ever, this is not a budgetary choice, but a political choice. What about the Government's intentions in this area? In addition to the recruitment resources, the other job-related work site is to upgrade these occupations through an overall reflection on the training, career path and skills framework of health-care workers. With regard to pricing, the mission suggests suspending this virtuous and laudable reform aimed at adjusting tariffs according to the level of dependency. We share the commitment to quickly neutralize the negative effects of reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u176	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u177	Pierre Ricordeau's mediation mission is expected to render its findings very soon to ensure that no facilities are put in difficulty due to the application of the new pricing system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u178	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u179	Taking charge of dependency via APA and part of housing through social assistance, departments must remain key players. For several reasons, the suggestion of a resumption by the communities of communes does not seem relevant to me. In this case, why do you want to exclude departmental councils when it would be enough for the state to finance up to the needs, which is not the case today? Can you confirm the primacy of dialogue with the départements, the Assembly of the départements of France in particular, and the desire to strengthen this community in the local management of dependence?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u180	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak once again on the EHPADs, because this is a matter that I care about – as is the case, I believe, for all Members on these benches this evening. It is regrettable that anyone who has made a sometimes outrageous speech about the actions of the Government and who plays only on emotion, without listening to the proposed solutions and above all without proposing them himself, is left without hearing my answers; I'm talking about Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u182	I'm here! I'm here, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u183	Ah, Mr. Ruffin, you're back. Forgive me! I'm glad I can answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u184	And from my office, I listened to the speeches of other speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u185	I'm sorry, Mr. Ruffin, I didn't see you coming back. So I'll talk to you about the solutions. We have to answer the following question: what model of care for the elderly, today and tomorrow? How can we better meet the needs and expectations of older people and their families? Since arriving at the department, I have visited a lot of EHPAD, almost one a week, and I am struck by both the commitment of the staff working there and the professionalism of the sector, which has changed a lot and has evolved a lot over the last thirty years. Our establishments correspond to a model designed thirty years ago, which will have to evolve and reinvent itself. It will have to do so thanks to an even stronger anchor within the territories and by using all the levers of innovation, in particular that provided for by Article 51 of the Law on the financing of social security. As far as the reform of EHPAD pricing is concerned, you know that I have appointed a mediator, who is due to give me his report tomorrow. The point that focuses criticisms is that of the convergence of "dependence" tariffs around a departmental average varying according to the territories. I would like to point out that in terms of care, there is no difficulty: 85% of EHPADs will earn additional resources every year, over seven years, in the framework of ONDAM – I will recall the figures just now. That is why the reform can continue to apply, even if we have to work on neutralizing the negative effects. It was on the dependency side that the difficulties arose in the effective implementation of the reform. In the near future, I have planned a discussion on this subject with the President of the Assembly of the Departments of France, because it would be of no use if the State were to compensate for the short-term negative effects of the reform if it were to have funding withdrawn from the departments. I want to make things very clear on this point. This short-term work may lead, if necessary, to adjustments to the reform itself and to an amendment to the decree, without calling into question its foundations and philosophy. But we need to go further, and that is why I will shortly propose to the Prime Minister the broad guidelines for a comprehensive strategy to deal with ageing. It will be fed in particular by my meetings with the actors of the sector: representatives of geriatricians, coordinating doctors, directors of EHPAD, home help services, associations of caregivers, representatives of professionals working in EHPAD. To build a strategy, we're not leaving anything. The PLFSS has already enabled us to make significant progress together in the service of the elderly. The same is true of my work within the Ministry: I am thinking of the national health strategy and of the opening up between the city and the hospital, between the medical-social and medical sector. I am thinking of the plan to improve access to care and the way in which the health system is financed. I am thinking of the telemedicine reforms: it is planned to equip all EHPADs accordingly. I am thinking of section 51 of the Social Security Financing Act, which allows us to experiment with organisational innovations, particularly in the medical and social sector. I am thinking of the remaining zero charge for dental and auditory prostheses and glasses, which reduce the loss of autonomy. I also want us to reflect on the subjects of the future: the right care in EHPAD and the relevant internal and territorial organization to achieve this; but also the model of care of tomorrow, between home and institution, with the need to think of new structures more fluid and more agile, that really meet the needs and expectations of the elderly, not to mention the articulation with the city and the hospital. I am also thinking of preventing the loss of autonomy, not only at home but also in institutions: last week I presented a national prevention programme precisely so that there are fewer and fewer dependent elderly people. I am also thinking of simplifying funding and decision-making channels. Finally, we must work on the issue of the end of life, because that is one of the reasons for the disaffection of the profession: staff working in EHPADs often have to deal with these difficult situations alone. The thread of my reflections will be the quality at the service of a care that preserves the dignity of people. I have already said it, and I repeat it: it is not only a question of means, it is also a question of training professionals, of the perspective of society. It is a matter of giving new attention to organizations and their functioning, which can and must improve. In the same way as for people with disabilities, we must work towards an inclusive society for older people. I conclude by addressing the issue of EHPAD personnel. I have already had the opportunity to say this: the ratio of a staff to an elderly person in EHPAD is not financially sustainable. We do not have the means to recruit at this level. Moreover, the State has never committed itself to achieving this ratio, contrary to what is often said, because it would be necessary to recruit 140,000 carers, for a budget of more than 7 billion euros! On the other hand, we have made a financial commitment to support the increase in the care burden of EUR 438 million over the coming years, which represents an additional 20,000 full-time equivalent posts in EHPAD. We must ensure that staff are more present with the most vulnerable people, and above all improve the management of their careers. Indeed, EHPADs have difficulty recruiting and are faced with a significant turnover and absenteeism. It is necessary to work on this point, by building a real plan for trades and skills, in connection with the Ministry of Labour, employers in the sector – federations, associations, companies, branches – and public or private training bodies. The trades of professionals working in EHPAD need to be better recognized and valued. All levers must be operated for this. My services are currently working on this, as part of a working group that will make its findings available shortly. I would now like to reply to the speakers who have spoken, to remind them that it is difficult to make generalities about EHPAD and age. The state, society in general, spends EUR 34 billion on the care of the elderly, of which EUR 21 billion in public expenditure, EUR 10 billion in health insurance alone. On the ground, the situation is very different. Both right-wing and left-wing governments have reflected on this complex issue and proposed reforms, but none have closed the debate on how best to support the growing number of dependent older people by the 2030 to 2050 decades. A roadmap will therefore be presented to the Prime Minister: it will, as I said, be open to consultation. We need to rethink our support model, emerging from the binary alternative between home maintenance and EHPAD, thanks to more progressive solutions. We must also rethink the governance of the system and, as Mrs Firmin Le Bodo said earlier, simplify funding. Finally, we will have to carry out innovative experiments: I am counting on the possibilities opened up by Article 51 of the last law on the financing of social security. I have chosen a number of measures presented in Mrs Iborra's and Mrs Fiat's report: we can already work on them. It's about changing the model in depth, renovating the external evaluation of EHPADs, conducting satisfaction surveys – I said I would start this process in 2018 – and publishing quality indicators. I believe that the merger of ANESM – National Agency for the Evaluation and Quality of Social and Medical-Social Institutions and Services – and the HAS – High Health Authority – will facilitate this evaluation work. We will also have to increase the number of temporary accommodation places: I would remind you that the Social Security Financing Act has already provided for 4,500 accommodation places in EHPAD and 1500 additional temporary accommodation places for 2018. The report of the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance – HCAAM – which will be given to us by the summer should help us anticipate the needs for the years to come. As we have said, people working with the elderly need to be better valued. These are local, non-relocable jobs, the number of which will have to be increased in the years to come. We will also have to invest in the most outdated EHPADs: we have already earmarked funds for this. The law on the financing of social security provides for 28 million euros to accompany the most difficult EHPADs, to which I have added 50 million, at the disposal of the ARS, to help with the investment. We will need to simplify standards, and work on the issue of social assistance for housing. We will need to improve the overall management of this policy, in close connection with the departments – since it is, as you know, a decentralised competence – and with a view to simplification. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UAI groups and on several benches of the LR group]] All these projects have already been launched, or are already planned. I am therefore in line with the majority of the proposals in this report. We're going to work on the medium and long term, and we're going to open up the financing of dependency together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u186	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes. We begin with a question from the group La France insoumé. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u187	Minister, the report of our colleagues is overwhelming. Washers see fourteen patients a morning. Patients have less than half an hour of care a day. Some are bedridden as early as 5 p.m., others walk in a wheelchair for lack of time and agents, although they can walk – but too slowly. Of the 720,000 elderly people receiving care, 83% are recognized as severely losing their autonomy, 70% need help to feed themselves. These are not just numbers, but our elders: they are entitled to our respect. As for EHPAD staff, they bring shame to all of us, our inability to treat with dignity, to accompany those elders who claim only dignity. The situation of EHPADs is a health emergency. The observation is shared: it is necessary to increase the number of staff, to reach the ratio of 60 caregivers and nurses per 100 residents, and to devote at least one and a half hours to each patient each day. This is not luxury: this measure was already advocated by the 2006 Great Age Plan and we are still far from it. Instead, your government removes 12,500 assisted jobs in public EHPADs. As for the 50 million euros released recently, they represent only one drop of water, compared to the loss of 200 million euros of public funds. Madam Minister, you say you do not have the means to finance these job creations despite their absolute necessity. In short, you are asking EHPAD staff to do the same, better, with fewer means, and for ever more patients. The care of our elders is de facto sacrificed, like many other public services, on the altar of fiscal austerity. I listened carefully to you, minister: the vocabulary you use is intended to mask the concrete reality of your policy. Do you seriously believe that your recommendations on "staff management" and "budget optimization" are serious measures, sufficient to deal with the scale of this health disaster?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u189	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u190	Madam Member, we do not have the same arithmetic. The Assembly has voted, under the Social Security Financing Act, EUR 100 million in additional appropriations, with 85% of EHPADs increasing their allocation for care. As I have already said, over the entire quinquennium, an additional EUR 438 million will be dedicated to the care part of the EHPADs, which corresponds to the creation of 20,000 full-time equivalent posts, to which I have added this year 10 million to finance night nurse posts and 50 million for investments in the most difficult EHPADs. We have therefore increased both the number of posts and the budgets. The question at present concerns the financing of the dependency part, which is in the hands of the departments. The Court of Auditors has pointed out that there are significant disparities: the financing of the APA varies from 1 to 2.5 depending on the departments. This is what EHPAD suffers most. I have therefore planned to meet with the departments of France, in order to discuss equalization and the future of dependency, which is a decentralised policy. The State has the responsibility of the "care" party and assumes it fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u191	We come to a question from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u192	Minister, on February 12, the Communist parliamentarians launched their turn from France of hospitals and EHPADs. Like my colleague Pierre Dharréville, I have made dozens of visits: I know the suffering of the staff, their frustration that they cannot do their work properly. The information report we are discussing highlights the acute crisis affecting institutions, staff and the elderly who are losing their autonomy. There is an urgent need: 5 million French will be over eighty-five years old in 2050, compared to 1.5 million today. It is therefore necessary to act quickly and forcefully. Diagnosis requires going beyond the stage of intentions and taking immediate enforcement measures. While the financial situation of the EHPADs is profoundly deteriorated, the information report recommends that the December 2016 tariff reform, which is contested across the country, should be lifted. We support that request. With regard to the glaring shortage of staff, it is urgent to hire to effectively meet needs and expectations: it is a question of human dignity. We would like to hear from you, Madam Minister, on this point. More broadly, there is a lack of seats in EHPADs, and there is a lack of EHPADs. The public service must and can do better. We have the means to do so, provided we ease the budgetary constraint that stifles public EHPADs. Austerity is unsustainable, both for the elderly and for the staff and for society as a whole. Of course, you will tell me, but with what budget? We could start by hiring a few hundred tax inspectors, who would have the task of recovering the proceeds of employers' fraud in respect of social security contributions, amounting to EUR 25 billion a year, according to an estimate by the Court of Auditors, which is concerned about the Government's lack of boldness in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u194	Madam Minister, will this report end up, like so many others, at the bottom of a drawer? Or will public authorities invest massively to meet this major challenge for our society?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u195	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u196	Mr President, you have asked a number of questions. As far as accommodations are concerned, I would like to point out that the needs vary quite from department to department. What you say is not true everywhere: I have visited empty EHPADs in some departments, sometimes huge by the way, which affects the health of staff who have to travel miles to get from one room to another. And it is true that other departments lack EHPAD terribly. So I asked for a report from the HCAAM to be able to anticipate the need for accommodation in the years to come, knowing that we want to change our model: all-EHPAD does not correspond to what the elderly, who are not necessarily dependent, are asking. Some simply want to have some home services, or care security, or access to services. So we have to invent another model, which is more graduated. I repeat: all-EHPAD is probably not the model of tomorrow. You have, however, voted this year to create 4,500 permanent places in EHPAD and 1500 temporary places of accommodation. We will see, for the coming years, what the needs are. Above all, I think that there is an urgent need to invent alternative models: this is what both families and the elderly are asking for, who do not want to be in an EHPAD immediately. On budgetary matters, you spoke of the fight against fraud. As you know, Gérald Darmanin has introduced a bill in Council of Ministers to combat fraud. It is planned to recruit an additional 50 officers to monitor businesses taxably. In June 2019, there will be a specialized service for this in Bercy. Anyway, it's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u197	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u198	Minister, longer lifespan will increase the number of people with Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. The report by Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat indicates that the increasing frequency of these people entering EHPAD is related to the fact that home care is no longer possible. The rapporteur advocates specific solutions within dedicated institutions. New accommodation solutions are emerging, inspired by our friends in Quebec or Denmark. For example, in the North, an association defends a project to create shared habitat, with about ten people with Alzheimer's disease. Such an establishment would encourage their autonomy – they would make their own meals, make their own bed, continue to climb the stairs – and ensure a real opening on the outside, as they would continue shopping themselves and could walk around in their neighbourhood, in their village. It is true that this type of project requires some risk-taking: people are given more to themselves, even with specific support. It also implies that we all know how to adapt to this type of solution and be able to be more inclusive, to better integrate people with this disease. Minister, what is your opinion on these types of solutions and what measures could you propose to facilitate their implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u199	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u200	Member, you are referring to EHPADs specializing in the management of patients with Alzheimer's disease, or other cognitive disorders. But we are also faced with the difficulties of aging people with disabilities, who often arrive much earlier than others in EHPAD, or of aging psychiatric patients. We therefore need to invent dedicated models. Interesting experiments have taken place in some departments, and also in Denmark – Mrs Iborra, you have told me. But you have to be careful about two pitfalls. First of all, it is important to preserve an offer of proximity for all: regrouping could be a hindrance in this respect, while it is important that families continue to visit the resident regularly. The other point of attention was raised by the federations, but also by the professionals working in EHPAD, which prompts me to be cautious about this model of grouping patients with cognitive disorders: this is the risk to staff. It is very difficult to accompany patients with Alzheimer's disease all day, 24 hours a day, every day of the year. Many of the actors believe that it is better to have dedicated units within EHPADs so that they can rotate the workforce and avoid psychological exhaustion. I think there's pros and cons. I am ready to take an interest in all the models, and perhaps they can all be deployed: there is not a single model. I am, of course, ready to discuss this with all those who have been involved, by far or near, in the implementation of these innovative organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u201	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u202	Minister, Ms. Iborra and Ms. Fiat's report highlighted the difficult working conditions currently faced by caregivers in EHPADs. This is due in particular to the shortage of staff, but also to a rate of absenteeism, which in general amounts to 10%. Another worrying observation, which you have pointed out, is that an INSEE report highlights the link between the working conditions of caregivers and the important turnover of staff in EHPADs – to whom I pay tribute for their engagement with our seniors, despite the difficulties of everyday life. Unfortunately, the recruitment of caregivers in these institutions is becoming increasingly complicated, a situation that has a direct and negative impact on patients. My colleagues' report makes a number of proposals which are based on the Government's policy: I am thinking in particular of the new "job skills journey" contracts, which, as recommended in the report, could be directed primarily towards EHPADs. More broadly, it is the image of the profession of caregivers that needs to be valued by updating their skills or even after a reflection on their status. These proposals, like the demands of the professionals, you have agreed to hear them and to accompany them, Minister. Indeed, on March 15th, you affirmed the need for a comprehensive reflection on the training, career path and competency framework of staff in EHPADs, in particular caregivers. So, can you tell us in what context this reflection will be conducted, and give us some details about both the actors involved and the concrete objectives in terms of timing and reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u203	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u204	Madam Member, I think it is urgent today to be able to offer career opportunities to staff working in EHPAD and to work to enhance their profession. We have a hard time recruiting caregivers, with a significant decrease in the number of people entering the trainings – I think their number has been divided by four this year. This proves that this profession is no longer attractive to young people. My department has reopened the content of the carer competency framework, and proposals will be made by the end of the year. In addition, I have set up a committee within the Ministry to work on the quality of life at work in medical and social institutions. This committee is due to submit a report by the end of April, I await its proposals to improve the quality of life of professionals. There is also a training issue: many of them say they are not adequately trained, particularly in the support of people with cognitive disorders. We therefore work with branches and federations to provide real training for professionals. And above all, in the long term, we must offer them career opportunities by allowing them to have a second part of their career either in management or in coordination, because it is very difficult to remain a caregiver in EHPAD for forty years. We are working on all these tracks. The result of this work will obviously be part of the road map that will be presented to the Prime Minister in the coming weeks, with the prospect of a very long-term commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u205	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u206	A long reference in public health, our country now faces the enormous challenge of ageing, an issue that is undoubtedly necessary to increase the resources for our EHPADs, but cannot be the panacea. Because what older people, their loved ones and caregivers require is quality of life, quality of care, quality of working conditions on a daily basis. This notion of quality is in particular essential to the attractiveness of the professions of the medical and social sector in EHPAD, which are now in arrears. In fact, more and more establishments are struggling to recruit health-care workers and, according to sickness insurance, the rates of accidents at work and occupational diseases are increasing, which is due in particular to back pain. The rate of absenteeism, on average 10%, is also of concern and leads to additional fatigue for caregivers who feel they are operating as at the plant. Given this, we need to work on the levels of competence and recognition of professionals in the medical and social sector to attract new profiles and stimulate those already practising in EHPAD. With this in mind, what is the Government planning to implement? One of the major organizational difficulties in EHPADs is the concentration of individuals for some self-governing or semi-autonomous individuals and others with dementia and Alzheimer's, which requires a wide range of skill levels within caregivers. Should it not be expected that the EHPAD supervision ratio varies according to certain parameters such as pathologies received in the establishment? The difficulties encountered by institutions during the night periods are mainly concentrated on people with disorientations and sleep disorders, a subject which also calls for specific skills which should be valued. Minister, in the face of the wall of specialisation of EHPADs and the necessary increase in the skills of professionals in the medical and social sector, what leverage do you intend to operate, what regional experiments do you intend to support at national level?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u207	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u208	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u209	Mr President, you, too, have referred to the difficulties faced by staff in EHPAD. You are right to recall that the turnover is now in the order of 15% and that many institutions are struggling to recruit, which obviously increases the penitence for the remaining staff. As I said to Mrs Khattabi, we are working on a number of avenues: quality of life at work – I am waiting for the report of the committee I mentioned in May – and the development of trades, particularly in terms of training, skills and career management – a work carried out in connection with Muriel Pénicaud, because we must make these professions attractive again. You said that the ratio of supervision, i.e. the number of professionals compared to the number of residents, should vary according to certain criteria. I recall that this ratio already varies since in Alzheimer's patients' units it is close to one for one. It must, of course, be subject to variations depending on the audience received. I would add that all the professionals in the sector have told me about the difficulty of the end of life. That is why I stress the need to alleviate this difficulty, that is to say, to promote palliative care in EHPAD, because it is largely part of the hardness, non-attractiveness of the sector for young people. We are not talking enough about it, but I think it is one of the issues, in the care and support component, to promote peaceful ends of life in EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u210	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u211	Madam Minister, all of us in the Committee on Social Affairs have welcomed the quality of the work done by Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat, and all of us here, I am convinced, want this work not to remain a dead letter. Yes, Minister, our care facilities for dependent seniors need more staff to deal with a difficult and humane task with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u212	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u213	But I would like to pay tribute to their quality and their immense dedication, which you witnessed last January in Saint-Malo. We cannot let it be said that our elderly people would all be abused without insulting them. Yes, minister, we need extra beds, especially in some areas, and even if we need to invent new forms of reception, it is true that there are today people in extreme emergency situations, often isolated, who do not find a reception solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u214	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u215	Yes, Madam Minister, we need to rethink the entire pricing system that has been adopted under the Act to adapt society to the aging population, a law that announced another one on what is called the "fifth risk", that of dependency, whose very high costs are increasing. This reform, announced by all Governments, has never come about because of the lack of resources to meet the financial needs. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, minister, how do you intend to deal with these new dependency needs over the next four years? I hear the proposals that you are telling us about, but I remain convinced that they will require additional resources: do you finally envisage a fundamental reform of the care of dependency?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u216	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u217	Minister, your answer is very much expected...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u218	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, I am not sure that I am so applauded at the end of my answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u219	Yes, but, yes, don't go beaten!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u220	Mr President, as you said, I would like to open a debate and a dossier that has not really been so during the previous five-year period. Indeed, it is time to anticipate the future. Indeed, it seems to me essential to organize ourselves to take care of the 5 million people who will have to be there by 2050. Today, the public expenditure associated with dependency amounts, as you know, to 1.1 percentage points of GDP. It will be 1.4 points in 2030 and 1.8 points in 2045. Several questions arise. First, what part does national solidarity have in relation to the expenses left to individuals and families? We will have to think about the rest of the burden in EHPAD and deal with an issue that has been left open today: that of private insurance. Is there a need for private insurance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u221	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u222	Should they be made mandatory, and at what age?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u223	It's for debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u224	Mrs Fiat has proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u225	What are the possible sources of funding?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u226	The shareholders?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u227	They have already been evaluated on numerous occasions in the past. There is the solidarity contribution for autonomy – CSA – which is the day of solidarity paid since 2013 by employers, both public and private, and which earns 2.7 billion euros. We could imagine, on this model, other days of solidarity. Is it necessary to create a second one to meet the needs? Should the additional contribution of solidarity for autonomy – CASA – be extended to all French people? Today, it is paid only by pensioners, for a ratio of 700 million euros per year. Is it necessary, at last, to tax inheritance taxes? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] These are some of the questions we will have to find answers to. That is the subject of the road map that I will propose to the Prime Minister in a few weeks' time, and it will be the subject of the debate that we will have to deal with this problem of dependency. I am obviously not in a position to answer these questions tonight. In view of the issues at stake, I want them to be the subject of a wide-ranging debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u228	Good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u229	We're waiting for you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u230	The next speaker is Mr Brahim Hammouche, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u231	The issue of ageing and dependency covers many challenges, the main one probably remaining its funding, as has just been addressed. Indeed, if the more than 60 years are currently 15 million, they will be 20 million in 2030 and almost 24 million in 2060 given a significant increase in life expectancy – and hopefully a successful and healthy life expectancy. On the other hand, 1.2 million people over the age of sixty are now dependent, and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's, are becoming more common. This gradual ageing of the French population, together with the increase in chronic diseases, will lead in the coming years to an inexorable and continuous increase in situations of loss of autonomy. It is therefore essential to rethink the financing of dependency: it is a matter of the survival of our social and health model. Currently, expenditure on old age care is three-quarters financed by the public authorities, amounting to €23.7 billion in 2014. The remainder for households is over EUR 6 billion, which places certain categories of population in unsustainable situations. However, it is estimated that these expenditures will double in relation to GDP by 2060. Madam Minister, can you, in addition to what you have just said, tell us what measures will be taken to ensure the financing of dependency, not only in the near future but also in the decades to come, in terms of EHPADs but also home care?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u232	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u233	As you have said, the immediate question is that of accompanying the EHPADs today, and in the years to come. I recall that you voted in the Social Security Financing Law for 2018 an increase in the resources of the CNSA, whose appropriations for the elderly will amount in 2018 to around 10 billion euros, an increase of more than 3% compared to 2017. This budget makes it possible to finance the following measures: on the one hand, the upgrading of the wage bill in EHPAD – 70 million euros; on the other hand, the creation of places – 4500 permanent accommodation places and 1500 temporary accommodation places; but also night nurse positions; up convergence of the framework rate for EUR 75 million; financial support for the 29 million EHPADs who lose out of the reform; And finally, exceptional support for EHPADs in difficulty, for 50 million. These are the measures that have been taken in the immediate future. We will, of course, have to discuss again, at the time of the next bill on the financing of social security, the ONDAM medico-social. But then there are the medium- and long-term issues. As I said, the challenges are before us: that is why I wanted to open this debate on funding. I believe that we can no longer postpone the resolution of this issue indefinitely, because we will find ourselves in great difficulty in the coming years and our successors may rightly blame us for not having anticipated. I repeat, honourable Member, the answer I have just given to Mr Lurton: a number of avenues are open to us, such as days of solidarity or private insurance. We will have to discuss this together, and the debate will be open this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u234	What about the benefits of CAC 40?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u235	Mr Paul Christophe, for the IDU Group, speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u236	We need to get out of this binary logic that, when a person can no longer live at home, the only solution lies in his placement in EHPAD. On the contrary, it is necessary to build on the diversity of existing means and to encourage, for example, temporary accommodation or day-time reception. These devices allow the person to be accompanied one or more days a week, while giving him or her the opportunity to continue living at home. The real goal is to delay its final entry into the institution. Temporary accommodation and day care are also respite solutions for caregivers, who can take advantage of this time to rest and thus preserve their own health. The temporary reception of the dependent elderly person can be done in EHPAD but also in the home of friendly families, thanks to a scheme still unknown and little developed in France, despite the recent legal improvements made by the ASV law. However, despite significant benefits, these reception facilities remain undeveloped. At the end of 2015, only 4% of residents in EHPAD were accommodated in temporary accommodation or in day care. The development of this figure is encouraging, as it has been increasing in recent years, but it remains low in terms of the number of dependents in France. It is therefore up to us to encourage the deployment of these two devices. The development of reception offers in the territory is the result of concerted work between the Regional Health Agency and the Department. The ARS can label the new day receptions that make up the Pôles d'Activités et de Care Adaptés – PASA – and the Enhanced Accommodation Units – UHR. The regional health plans will be finalized this summer: the departments are therefore waiting for visibility on the programmes that will be undertaken to develop day reception and temporary accommodation. Minister, do you intend to encourage the SRAs to label more PASAs and UHRs in order to develop the offer of temporary accommodation and day reception in the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u237	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u238	Mr President, there are today 12,200 temporary accommodation places, and 15,550 day reception places. You have voted to create 1500 additional seats for this year. Of course, such a development must continue, as temporary accommodation corresponds to a strong demand from families. This, however, sometimes raises transport issues on which we will also have to reflect collectively. You also voted in the Social Security Financing Law for 2018 with the creation of 206 places in PASA and 290 in UHR. These places will be created in 2018 and we will, of course, continue to support these developments in the coming years. Moreover, when I met the hospital federations, many of them kept me informed of their work on the respite places. It seems to me that we need to think collectively about this. Very interesting initiatives are being taken, particularly in the Rhône-Alpes region. All alternative models must be developed, all those that relieve caregivers or are adaptable – since an elderly person can lose autonomy at some point, and then recover it to another: not everything in this area is definitive. These models would help us get out of this Manichean choice between home and EHPAD and we will obviously open the door to reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u239	The next speaker is Mr Joël Aviragnet, on behalf of the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u240	The information report we are discussing is interesting in that it puts things down on EHPAD. However, if I agree with the conclusions and consider the proposals contained therein useful, I seriously question the financing of these measures. According to the report, in order to ensure a decent reception for residents, the ratio of carers would have to be doubled within four years, i.e. 140,000 recruits and 7 billion euros. Since it's late, let's go to the essentials. My first question is simple: are you considering, Madam Minister, reviewing your budgetary choices and integrating this essential expenditure for our elderly people? It is also proposed to carry out a free home consultation, covered by health insurance, at the age of sixty-five years and then seventy years, in order to assess the state of health and dependence of our citizens. Madam Minister, you, like me, who are committed to health prevention, can you tell us if we have figures for such a measure? Consider integrating this expenditure into the social security budget for 2019? Finally, proposal No 31 provides for the reduction of the remainder for the elderly, by making certain expenditure incurred by the departments and by health insurance, in particular those relating to staff involved in the animation, catering, general administration and depreciation of real estate. My question will not surprise you, Madam Minister: will this transfer of expenses be accompanied by an increase in the allocation for departments and for health insurance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u241	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u242	Mr President, I am essentially replying to the question of care and medical visits, since I think I have already developed the financial question a great deal. In 2017, as part of the medical convention, a long-term consultation for the elderly, including those with Alzheimer's disease, was already voted. Highly valued, this consultation allows for the proper care of these people. No systematic consultation on prevention has been planned, as all studies show that consultations specifically dedicated to prevention are not efficient. In terms of prevention, permanent measures should be taken. This is the purpose of the national public health plan that I presented a week ago, which aims, among other things, to promote physical activity and improve nutrition. All the remaining zero-charge measures in the prosthetic fields will also reduce the loss of autonomy. A policy of continuous prevention throughout life must therefore be pursued in order to avoid the loss of autonomy, rather than to provide for consultation at a given time, which has little effect. On the other hand, 65-year-olds suffer on average from two chronic diseases which are 100% covered by health insurance. Therefore, they are fortunate to benefit from a follow-up with their general practitioner, which extends to the assessment of their dependence, especially since these long consultations are now properly valued by social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u243	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-03-O1175.u244	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Questions on the financing of official development assistance; Questions on financing major infrastructure. The meeting is adjourned.
