ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1349, 1396).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u2	I recall that, at the request of the Government, we shall consider as a matter of priority the amendments to the additional article before article 52, article 52 and the amendments to the additional article after article 52, relating to the care of juvenile offenders. We will then resume the normal course of our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u3	Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u4	Contrary to our agreement this morning, I will take some time to introduce this amendment, which empowers the Government to amend and supplement the provisions applicable to juvenile criminal justice and to consolidate them into a juvenile criminal justice code. To explain this request for authorization, I would like to clarify the will of the Government, to convey some substantive convictions, and finally to mention the procedure that I wish to propose to you. With regard to the Government's will, I have heard and understood the concerns and misunderstandings expressed yesterday on the opposition benches regarding the choice of this method. What drives the Government and the majority is the need to open this building that has waited too long. The 1945 Order has often been amended; As a result, it has become more complex and has lost its coherence. Today, it is not understandable to minors and their families. Since it has become difficult to use by legal professionals, it appears to be in contrast to the development of juvenile delinquency. This work has been announced for years and nothing has happened. In 2008, a committee had been set up, with parliamentarians from all sides, under the chairmanship of the Rector Varinard. The then Prime Minister, François Fillon, had announced the reform of the 1945 Ordinance to create a code of criminal justice for minors. Under the previous legislature, the creation of a juvenile criminal justice code had also been envisaged, but the project had not been successful. Since the beginning of this mandate, parliamentary missions have been created in the Senate, with Senator Catherine Troendlé and Senator Michel Amiel. Your Law Commission has also launched an information mission entrusted to Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier. The Ministry of Justice has been working with parliamentarians and professionals on this subject for the past few months. That is why I hope that this necessary reform will be carried out rather than postponed once again because of an over-burdened parliamentary timetable in view of the Government's policy of transformation. I therefore propose that we be empowered to redraft the 1945 Order by order. In saying this, I remain consistent with what I said to you, including in committee, several days ago. At that time, I said that we had to reform the 1945 Order – a finding that we shared – but that I was not prepared to do this, too important, work under the current bill. The procedure that I propose allows you to achieve this objective with certainty and through collaborative work. That's for the will of the Government, that I'm making mine. I would now like to focus on the substance. We all know, and you admitted with honesty yesterday, that oppositions have different conceptions of juvenile justice. I, for my part, have three great convictions on this recast of the 1945 Order, which I would like to deliver to you. First conviction: the essential principles of juvenile justice, which are at the heart of the Constitutional Council's jurisprudence, should not be called into question, and this has been repeated in its recent decision on the Murielle Bolle case. I don't want to change the age of criminal majority. There is a principle of mitigating the criminal responsibility of minors and we believe that it should continue to apply to minors between the ages of 16 and 18. A 16-year-old, even if he is a delinquent, is not an adult. I would also point out that the judge can already decide to derogate from this mitigation if he considers it necessary. He does not hesitate to do so because, as I have already had the opportunity to point out, it is almost 900 minors who are currently in detention in our country. Justice cannot therefore be blamed for laxity in this area. I do not want to go back to the dual vocation of the juvenile judge, both judge of minors in danger and judge of juvenile delinquents. The principle of a specialized judge is important, and this specialisation consists first of understanding the specificity of children and adolescents. Nor do I want to go back to the pre-eminence of educational measures. As stated by the Constitutional Council, we must seek "the educational and moral rehabilitation of child offenders through measures appropriate to their age and personality". These appropriate measures are primarily educational, which does not mean that children's judges and children's courts should not impose criminal measures where necessary. The second conviction is that criminal justice must be more effective. We were all struck by the teacher's aggression in Créteil. In this case, the justice system was able to respond quickly: the young person was immediately referred and removed from the neighbourhood. Unfortunately, however, for various reasons, the judicial response is not always as rapid. Minors may be tried months after the commission of their offences. In the meantime, they have been able to commit other criminal acts and this lack of response is not understood by the victims and society. It is also problematic for minors themselves who do not become aware of their actions. We therefore wish to speed up the trial of minors so that their guilt can be decided promptly; We also wish to strengthen their care through appropriate and effective probationary measures before sentencing. This will improve the inclusion of victims by demonstrating that justice provides a prompt response and by allowing for the initiation of reparation proceedings. Third conviction: it seems to me useful to simplify the criminal procedure applicable to minors and to provide judges, professionals in the judicial protection of young people, investigative services and lawyers with a coherent and legible code. It is essential and this foundation will also guarantee confidence in justice. These are three strong convictions that I defend and which I believe are capable of drawing a framework. Finally, with regard to methodology, I would like to clarify the procedure that I propose to follow. I heard yesterday that the Government was preparing to go into force; I read today in a daily newspaper that the project would be written. This is not the case; Neither of these two statements is true. I propose that you authorize the Government to redraft the 1945 Order within six months. This deadline will allow us to consult widely with the professionals concerned, the judiciary, lawyers and professionals involved in the judicial protection of young people. Setting such a deadline guarantees our willingness to carry out this project, and that is in his best interest. I have also heard that the Government will not respect the prerogatives of Parliament. That is absolutely not the case. I am fully aware that a subject as important as the criminal justice of minors cannot and must not escape national representation. So I want to propose an original method that will allow us to move forward by working together. Firstly, I would like to build on the work already undertaken by Parliament: the six-month clearance period will allow us to take into account the conclusions of the fact-finding mission entrusted to Cécile Untermaier and Jean Terlier. But I would like to go further by creating a contact group or delegation from the Law Committee or several committees, which would bring together parliamentarians – MPs as well as senators – during the drafting of the order. This will continue the work carried out in the Chancellery and in the missions I have mentioned over the past few months. To every assembly to make me proposals! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, I propose that Parliament should have sufficient time to amend the order once it has been tabled, and that it should not enter into force until one year after its adoption by the Council of Ministers. This will give Parliament the opportunity to play its full role. The Government and the majority believe that the subject of the recasting of the 1945 Ordinance must now be addressed and completed. As in other areas, we must adopt a pragmatic approach to a reform that is too late. That is the approach that I propose to you and which I hope you will agree with.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u5	On Amendment No 1644, as corrected, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. On the identical sub-amendments Nos 1646, 1647, 1648, 1649, 1651 and 1652, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In order to facilitate the organization of our work, I propose the following method, which we have agreed with the Minister, the rapporteur and all the leaders of the groups and non-groups in this House: I will call each speaker defending the sub-amendments, and then I will give the floor to those who have requested it. To fluidize the debate and in order not to forget anyone, I suggest you register through the bailiffs. Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u6	I would like the sitting to be suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u7	Now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u8	Yes. I thank you for organizing our work as always with calm, serenity and the desire to involve all parliamentarians. The minister has just said: we must digest everything that has been announced, including new constitutional revenues. For my part, I thought that it was the chair of the Law Committee that organized the reflection of Parliament, but now it is you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u9	No, not at all! I said that to every assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u10	I have heard that time limits are set by the Government in Parliament; I figured out how you were hearing it. But constitutional innovations are suggested to us by Mrs. Keeper of the Seals: we would therefore like to be able to meet to discuss them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u11	The suspension of the sitting, of course, is on the right. However, I would like to say, in order for everyone to be at the same level of information, that we have agreed to the suspension, with Mrs Untermaier – I do not want to denounce my little comrades (Sorry.) –, on a method.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u12	I was with Mr. Bayrou!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u13	[[Smile]] If you were with Mr. Bayrou, then you are all excused, of course! It is important for all of us to stick to the method that has been decided. I remind everyone that there are 745 amendments left – I am just pointing out that I am, as always, at the disposal of the National Assembly. Last night, there were many reminders to the Rules of Procedure on the method – that was not illegitimate, by the way. President Lagarde has done it for his group, Mr Gosselin has made himself the interpreter of President Jacob and I have no doubt that President Jacob is relaying to the Conference of Presidents, is he not, Mr Gosselin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u14	I confirm it to you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u15	And we trust President Jacob for this is being discussed in the Conference of Presidents. The suspension is right, so I will grant it after a point of order from Mr Bernalicis. For the rest, I think it is a good policy to keep the method that has been adopted and that I remind you: everyone will be able to speak and present the sub-amendments, and then we will resume the normal course of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u16	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u17	After the minister's intervention, I think a sitting suspension is beneficial. Indeed, we have just discovered his words: it is frankly uneven – if I had to talk about equality of arms, as in a trial – to have to decide now. How can we react and determine how to position ourselves when we have only just discovered the arguments? This suspension is therefore entirely legitimate, first to give us the time to "build a defence", then so that we can discuss between groups the information we have just learned. I therefore hope that this suspension is not long enough to allow us to assimilate the matter which has just been communicated to us, which was not without importance, you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u18	[[Smile]] Mr Bernalicis, although you are a new Member of Parliament, I can testify to your great ability to assimilate quickly! As for being armed for defence, I am sure that you are among the most ardent defenders of this House; I can testify!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u19	That's not nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u20	On the contrary! It's a recognition of your abilities. Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u21	It's not a matter of getting the guns or having the choice of weapons, with the mist in the early morning. There is no duel here, in any case no duelists: we are not in this state of mind. We have listened to what the minister has said, which seems to us to be moving towards a form of co-production legislativo-governmentalo-I-don't know-what a little new, it must be said. It would associate majority and opposition: why not? But I'm not giving you a white-seing, so much for it. It is necessary for our group to give its violins a little if we do not want to fight – it is not a political struggle – but to debate in the collective interest of society, especially of minors. We need a little time. It is not a question of obstruction, I tell you right away: we agreed, last night and this morning, on a method: we will of course respect it because we do not change the rules in the course of the game. So we want to have a little time to tune our violins.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u22	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor for a point of order, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u23	Yeah, even if I don't have the rules. But I've got it in mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u24	I just want to be nice to you: there's no point in pointing out that you don't have the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u25	I appreciate it, believe me, Mr. President! A little kindness in this Parliament to me, that's not negligible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u26	I respect all elected officials: here, there are only elected representatives of the nation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to say that I fully understand Mr Habib's request for a suspension of the sitting, but how many of them are going to meet? There's only two of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u28	In any case, we won't associate you with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u29	Don't take it badly! We represent 11 million voters and we are only two! Now that the atmosphere is relaxed, I want to ask a question to the minister – or the minister, depending on whether you like grammar or not; But I can say "the minister," it doesn't bother me at all – to approach the 1945 order like that, do you really think it's the right method? It is a fundamental text and I fully understand that you want to address it. As you know, this ordinance was born from the movement of the new defence, tending to take into account the age of the minor – today it is no longer true. This is an immense and necessary debate, but can we do so under such conditions? Frankly, I don't believe it. I do not question your willingness, which is real, to address this issue. It is commendable, it is necessary, I would even say that it is vital, but not under the conditions that you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u30	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u31	I must admit, Madam Minister, that when you answered the topical questions that you intended to introduce this amendment, I was called into question, not to say shocked. Since then, with your firm, with your collaborators, our group has tried to understand the reason for this approach, this choice not of an amendment but of an order to revise the 1945 order, which has already been done through the usual legislative procedure on a few occasions. I acknowledge one thing: today, juvenile justice in our country does not work. You will allow the Member of Parliament for Seine-Saint-Denis that I am to say that, especially in a department like mine, where the rate of delinquency of minors is the highest, it even dysfunctions almost completely. A prescription, usually, is made to go fast. You set deadlines: I will not oppose the process because, anyway, we have to move. There have been so many attempts without anything happening, there have been so many failures that we and our children suffer – as well as the victims of juvenile delinquents – that we can try your method. But one may wonder why this method. You give us a year, which I am satisfied with. When the Government wanted to reform the Labour Code by order, I made the proposal, which is not unconstitutional, that parliamentarians participate in their writing. I believe that this is a step forward, so far that, in the new regulation of the National Assembly on which we are working, we could no doubt integrate this step in order to gain some consideration and respect for the powers of Parliament, without masking the fact that only the Government finally decides. But if I take the floor, it is that, in the process desired by the Minister, there is one element that falls within the purview of the Government: it is the willingness to involve parliamentarians at the time of drafting the order. That is what I was asking, as I said, for the reform of the Labour Code and, because you are making this move, we will not oppose this process. There is an urgent need and this new process is important. On the other hand, to decrypt the Minister's remarks, once parliamentarians, representatives of parliamentary groups and non-attached MPs have been able to work with the Government, there will be a ratification debate – this is a message to our President of the National Assembly. However, this ratification debate is usually dispatched in a matter of minutes: it is in fact purely formal, the order having already entered into force. But, in this case, it will not have entered into force: the debate will really have to take place. This means that at the Conference of Presidents it will have to be decided from the beginning to devote sufficient time in the Chamber to this debate, as in a normal bill. On this point, the method you are proposing seems to me to be experimenting because it is more respectful of Parliament than we are used to. In addition, it is beginning to respond to an emergency, that of children who today are not followed or are not assisted, aided, saved from the delinquent drift in which they are pouring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u32	Thank you, Mr. President Lagarde. You are sitting at the Conference of Presidents as I am: I am, of course, immediately transmitting, through our services, to President Richard Ferrand, as I mentioned earlier to our colleague Gosselin; President Jacob will do so, as will the other group presidents. Mrs Faucillon, you have the floor for a point of order, and then Mrs Untermaier. It is not indelicate to give the floor to all speakers wishing to make a point of order. We will then suspend the sitting, Mr Habib: you, who have been an excellent Vice-President of the Assembly, are very familiar with our customs and customs. I will voluntarily suspend the session for ten minutes, which is much more than usual. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u33	I agree with the request for suspension of the sitting, because I find the method difficult to digest, even at this hour. Before or after this suspension, I would like the chairman of the committee, Mrs Braun-Pivet, to tell us about this method, which seems to us to be quite new – the term unedited can cover a lot of positive or negative things – and explain to us under what conditions this method was developed this night or this morning. The choice of the timetable is of course up to him, but we would like at least to have these data in order to be able to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u34	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u35	I would like to clarify the framework within which the Committee on Laws is working on this subject. In June 2018, the Law Commission established a fact-finding mission on juvenile justice, which consists of 18 members, representing all the groups of this assembly. Today, however, it is composed of only fifteen members, as the Republican Group does not currently have a designated member to be part of this mission. It is led by our colleague Jean Terlier for the La République en Marche group and by Cécile Untermaier for the Socialist and related group. It has already conducted 23 meetings and hearings as well as a number of trips, the next one being scheduled for 6 December, I believe, at the tribunal de grande instance in Bordeaux. This mission was nearing completion and was expected to render its conclusions in the coming weeks. There are now several hypotheses and of course I have not decided since the elements arrive at us in a certain timing. I would also like to have the committee bureau meet so that this decision can be taken in consultation with my Vice-Presidents, Secretaries and related members of the Law Committee, which seems to me quite normal. We therefore have a number of options to involve Parliament as closely as possible in the drafting of these orders. Either we can maintain this mission, not close its work and allow it to accompany the Government, in which case it will have eighteen members representing the entire national representation, and we will continue with this formation already established for six months; either this mission, in the coming weeks, when it has finished its work, gives its conclusions, reports to the commission of laws which, as usual, adopt them or not and authorizes the publication of the report and we create an ad hoc, original group, to accompany the Government in ways that we can define within the commission of laws, with the members of the bureau and associate members. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That's the method I can offer you. I cannot at this moment tell you how we are going to proceed. I believe that we must continue on the path that the Government has set out, that of consultation, whether on the method or on the substance. That, Mr. President, is the clarification I can give you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u36	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u37	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u38	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u39	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u40	After reflection, it seems to us that it is the foundations of the 1945 Ordinance that the Government wants to tackle, to the very ones who founded its honour: detemporalization, the same magistrate for juvenile delinquents as for youth in danger, the minor considered not as an adult in a reduced model but as an adult in the process of becoming. You referred to a context justifying a substantive revision without referring to the context of 1945, where crime, of which I do not know if it was more serious than today, was already extremely strong, which did not prevent the promulgation of this ordinance. The method used is part of the discussion and perhaps it is necessary to begin with. I said earlier that it was unprecedented because you are looking for cooperation, which is fortunately well known, but we have seen in the first debates, in today's debates and in your own presentation, Madam Minister, that political differences exist and that you yourself make it a political issue if I believe the arguments you put forward. It is therefore necessary to go back to what is the richness of the separation of powers, but also that of the adversarial debate, which is not in line with the method that you propose. I must say that, after hearing you, I still do not understand the choice of proceeding by order. First, because this review is extremely serious, then, because you should give us and give you time to propose a bill, simply, on which Parliament could work. We would prefer such a method and we continue to reject the way of ordinances, which is based on nothing other than the political will to speed up at any cost – not stated as such – and to silence Parliament's diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u41	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u42	[[Smile]] It is true that I was not present at night, but I was present until 6 p.m. yesterday. I therefore feel bound by what has been decided under your authority, Mr President, with all the group presidents. A man from the southwest familiar with the melees, I nevertheless accept that the game is more fluid! In any event, this amendment is not trivial. In fact, just now, the minister has very elegantly justified her by explaining to us her raison d'être, the procedure followed, the method and the principles that guide her. She was not obliged to do so because she asked for the possibility to legislate by order. We are in a particular political debate, we are discussing a very special order. Before we begin the discussion on the content of your amendment, minister, I want you to tell us why you are not proceeding with a classic enabling bill. Why use this text, which is already very complex and dense, and insert an amendment allowing the Government to legislate by order? We need that clarification. I would also say to the Chair of the Law Committee that our responsibility as elected officials is not limited to ensuring that tomorrow's order is validated by the deputies: we must also verify, in accordance with the institutional, constitutional, parliamentary rules, that the Government does not take advantage of any text to insert an amendment depriving Parliament of debate. In this case, you have made a concession by explaining that you will set up a monitoring committee, but the fact remains that Members will not be able to intervene in the drafting of the text. I need clarification, minister: why not resort to a classic bill and why are you using this programming bill – whose purpose and objectives are different – that did not initially provide for such a reform since you are proposing an amendment to make use of the ordinances?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u43	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u44	You're talking about method, Mrs. Seals. I want to be open, talk about co-production, about partnership. Why not? But since it is a question of method, I am astonished at this acceleration of time which would force you today to table this amendment which violates Parliament's rights. A year ago, you opened five projects for the reform of the justice system. None of them were specifically concerned – in any case not on an immediate horizon – with the reform of juvenile justice. Maybe we should have opened a sixth construction site? After all, Hercules' work was more numerous! At no time during the discussions, the consultations, there was any urgency to discover, at the turn of questions to the Government, the existence of this amendment hastening things. You're talking about method, but we're a little scalded at what's happened in the last few months, in the last few hours, and we're very much in doubt. A partnership is a tense hand. Why not seize it, in the collective interest? Why not? I would remind you, however, that last July – and this will also be discussed next January – we discussed and will therefore discuss a draft constitutional reform which gives little room to opposition rights, which violates the usual rules of operation of Parliament and which, unlike the 2008 reform, degrades it. This yo-yo between a tense hand and beating in July and January, at least, appeals to us and finds us very dubious. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I conclude – provisionally, Mr President, because we will have the opportunity to come back to these questions: you say, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that the agenda is so busy for the least to come that we must act now. Is it so heavy that the boat must be loaded to the point that it sinks and swallows the rights of the opposition and national representation? I'm asking you, what fly did you catch?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u45	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u46	I would simply like to take this opportunity to bring the outside voices into the Chamber here. I read a press release dated November 23, 2018: "France is not rich enough of children to neglect one! Our trade union and associative organizations are outraged by the announcement of the custody of the seals: wanting to reform the justice of children and adolescents by means of ordinances and obtaining to do so an authorization within the framework of the bill of programming Justice 2018-2022 currently debated in the National Assembly in the framework of an accelerated procedure. "This is an unacceptable passage in force for such an essential and sensitive subject which requires on the contrary a reflection and consultation of professionals and a genuine democratic debate. "Currently, children's justice is governed primarily, within the criminal framework, by the ordinance of 2 February 1945, which has as its founding principle the primacy of education over repression. Since its initial drafting, 90 per cent of the articles had been amended, at the discretion of Governments and various facts. "The main effect of these changes has been to increase the severity of minors through accelerated procedures and security measures and penalties – pre-trial detention, judicial review – that are dangerously close to those of adults. The principle of overempowerment of the child has gradually replaced that of protection and education. "The first of the consequences is the constant increase in the confinement of minors. As of 1 October 2018, 835 adolescents were incarcerated, including the grey figure of young adults convicted of acts committed during their minority, as well as minors in the 52 existing closed educational centres. "The Government's request for a genuine "white-screen" to draft a criminal code on juvenile justice seems to us all the more worrying as it risks logically aligning itself with the recommendations introduced on the subject in the draft law on the planning of justice, namely the establishment of 20 additional closed educational centres. "However, these structures regularly denounced by various bodies such as the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights – CNCDH – or the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty – CGLPL – for their numerous dysfunctions, do not stop the increase in confinement but, on the contrary, contribute to it. Moreover, they have a significant cost – 2.5 million per creation; 660 euros of average operating rate per day and per young person. » I'm finishing, Mr. President. "To go through ordinances is to bypass the consultation processes of professionals and trade union and associative organisations and ignore the experiences and know-how of actors and actresses on the ground; It is a lack of consideration for young people among those most in difficulty. » Signed by the FSU, the Syndicat de la magistrature, the CGT, a specific section of the FSU, Solidaires, the Syndicat des avocats de France, the Observatoire international des prisons and the Ligue des droits de l'homme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u47	It's very open...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u48	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u49	I apologise, dear colleague, for not prosecuting your rosary – Judicial Union, CGT and company... It's not my cup of tea... or vodka, to allude to very old periods, those where the Communist Party was affiliated with Moscow. It was another time! Madame or the keeper of the seals – everything depends on your grammatical choice – I have the impression very frankly, knowing that you have a mission to accomplish, that in your inner part it costs you. I would like to say this because you are too legal, too ethical to not realize what, in a way, this passage in force means. We have the impression that you are afraid of resorting to a classic bill. Why? Why the fear? Let us all be aware that what is happening outside Parliament is linked to a very real fact: there is no longer a democratic forum. If people take the street, it is because we no longer take the voice: we are silent, Parliament is no longer parliament, Parliament is no longer discussing the law, but it is subjected to it by a majority that is, of course, democratically elected but a little disciplinary. It has an impact on the outside. I say this, subject to my mistake, but I wish to enrich the reflection: if we want to go quickly, if we do not resort to the usual, classical methods, do we not take the risk of exasperating silence and causing it to burst, one day or the other, in a surprising way? Let us use the usual democratic techniques! A bill, a discussion, a democratic dispute, but we're not going through it! The 1945 order is too important! We can't reform it into fraud! In your heart, Madam Minister, even if you do not say so, I think you agree on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u50	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 1646.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u51	As you can see, the exercise will be very forced. This is one of the great difficulties that we are denouncing. It is not the ability to make prescriptions that poses a problem in itself. I am committed to the Constitution of the Fifth Republic and I see no problem in having a government use it from time to time. The problem is that this question comes up like a hair on the soup. I don't know what fly hit the majority or the ministry. I avoid turning it into a personal matter, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and it is obviously not Nicole Belloubet that I am aiming at, but the minister. I do not know what prompted you to consider that there was an absolute urgency to reform this order. No one disputes the need to put the 1945 order back on the table, but why do it now? And why in this form? This form obliges us, since we cannot table amendments, but only sub-amendments, which can only change one or two words, or a few commas. So we are forced to under-amend anything, since we cannot amend anything, in fact. I therefore propose the following amendment: "of love, beautiful marquise, dying your beautiful eyes make me", or rather to clarify that the Government is entitled to modify and supplement the provisions relating to the criminal justice of minors "under constant law". I will be told that all this is not very serious, since the expression "at constant right" is contradictory with the idea of modifying and supplementing. Of course, but it turns out I can't do anything else. Parliamentary law, the rules of the National Assembly and the Constitution compel me. What can I do in these conditions? Not much. I have a warning power, I have the verb, but you are trampling on Parliament's rights on a matter which is essential and which we should have debated further. With the hand outstretched, we could accept it if the menu was generous. But it happens, Madam Minister, that you come to explain to us both your conception, your timetable and the content of the reform that you are considering. You present us with a tense hand, but you tell us that we will not touch the criminal majority, you announce educational measures and many others. The menu is no longer a menu, but an imposed meal! I like it when there's a little choice, between cheese and dessert, for example. The subject is serious enough for me not to give the metaphor any more, but this unique menu is the translation of a unique thought. However, the amendment of this text requires caution and wisdom, and certainly not haste.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u52	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 1647.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u53	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you announced Wednesday, 23 November, during questions to the Government that the Government was going to make a reform on juvenile justice by order. You have never mentioned this during the thirty-three hours of debate in the Law Committee. Using the way of amendment after reviewing the text in committee and, incidentally, after its adoption in the Senate, it is not to have any respect for parliamentarians, supposed to make the law! When MP Eric Ciotti asked you about the 1945 order during the general discussion on the text currently under consideration, you replied: "It does not seem absurd to me to take it back to give it a structure and, if necessary, to make some additions. In fact, MPs and senators are working on this issue. You added: "However, it seems to me that we must work together to improve the operational implementation of the measures. [...] We should be able to act with the same speed in the face of all incivilities, all offences. That is what I want to focus more on than amending the text, even though I think it is useful to review the 1945 order and, occasionally, to add to it. » In the Senate, even its bell. You said: "As the rapporteur has just said, it is a general work of reflection that must be carried out around the 1945 order. Perhaps you could offer to hire him. For my part, I would only see advantages. Clearly, the question deserves to be reworked: therefore, request for withdrawal; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion. » You therefore believe that a reflection should be initiated. Two missions are under way in the National Assembly and the Senate, and their conclusions have not yet been reached. Why do you want to rush things? What the Government is proposing here is not a small amendment to the 1945 Ordinance, nor a simple codification of juvenile justice, it is an extremely broad reform, from which Parliament will be excluded. This major debate on juvenile justice deserves more than a confiscation of Parliament's word. As a representative of the nation in this institution, I would like to tell you that your methods do not suit me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u54	I call Mr Savignat to support sub-amendment No. 1648.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u55	Madam Minister, since the beginning of our debates, you have not ceased to insist that this text came before the National Assembly after lengthy consultations, after a long work with all the professionals and that it was the result of careful work. So what happened on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday? This text was discussed in committee and then in the Senate, it was considered by the Law Committee of the National Assembly and, during the night of Tuesday to Wednesday, you clearly realized that you had left on your desk the amendment that you are presenting to us today, by which you asked the Assembly to authorize you to reform the 1945 Order by order. You can't believe that, minister. I had the naivety to believe you when you said before the Law Commission, at the time of the general discussion that you did not want to "make com" on the backs of minors. That's a mistake! At noon, I typed your name on all the search engines: all we read is that Nicole Belloubet is reforming the 1945 order. Ten days ago – it's not ancient history! – you said you didn't want to make a com! When I asked you about the 1945 Order in the Law Committee, the rapporteur replied that this bill was not intended to reform the 1945 Order and you replied "Same opinion. " And today you support the opposite! You propose to us a kind of Radeau of the legislative jellyfish, at the end of which, when you go to the right and to the left, you will manage, you say, to a semblance of consultation. The Constitution provides for a procedure. You do not listen to us and do not accept any of our amendments: I do not see how, in a kind of amicable procedure, we could influence the text you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u56	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1649.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u57	As a member of Parliament, I'm a beginner. I am not a politician because I have been a politician for many years, but I am a Member of Parliament. The criminal justice of minors, what a beautiful subject! This is an extraordinary subject on which we parliamentarians could today be called upon to speak. Earlier, Madam Minister, you opened a real political debate, and you set out your convictions. The problem is that I have the unpleasant feeling that everything is already decided, stopped in advance. To give you a good conscience, and perhaps to catch up with you, you encourage us to complete the parliamentary missions that are under way. You tell us that you will eventually be able to read and their reports that they can be used for a debate – but we wonder which one! You are giving yourself a good conscience by letting us believe that we too will be able to participate in this debate. What a nenni, ladies and gentlemen! Don't believe it! Since everything seems decided in advance, if you are offered a partnership today, it is because you are considered to be the guarantor or the guarantee of the Government. By these orders, the convictions and decisions of the Government will be under your guarantee. And I don't want that. I was not elected for that. I'm a member of Parliament, just like you, and I'm here to make the law, not to ratify orders. [[MM. Philippe Gosselin and Jean-Louis Masson applaud]] I'm here to make the law, I'm not the government shield. So let us express ourselves, don't gag us! Let us express ourselves and let us make this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u58	I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 1651.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u59	It is defended, in the same spirit as my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u60	I call Mrs Brigitte Kuster to support sub-amendment No. 1652.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u61	Like my colleagues in the Republican Group, I am surprised at the method you are using. You are proposing a substantive revision of the 1945 Order, by means of an amendment that you have subreptitiously tabled. That's, to say the least, surprising, Madam Minister! This is even a bit the surprise of the leader, since you yourself told us in committee that you were not going to embark on an umpteenth reform. I do not believe that this was included in candidate Macron's program. So I'd like to understand where the urgency is, Mrs. Sealing. We are witnessing a new government pirouette. You are talking about a legislative partnership, but at the same time you have just told us, by introducing your amendment, that you would not attack the criminal majority. Where's the debate? Your approach is critical of form and, in substance, you offer us a partnership while at the same time excluding certain topics from the discussion from the outset. The Republican Group has already worked on this issue and proposes, in particular, a modification of the criminal majority. You will understand, therefore, that our margin of manoeuvre is narrow to say the least. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Your method is not clear and your intentions are even less clear. We believe that the reform of the 1945 Order deserves a real debate, not a passage in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u62	On the identical sub-amendments Nos 1653, 1654 and 1655, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support sub-amendment No. 1653.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u63	It's quite extraordinary! After the law passed in the Chamber, which is supposed to be the norm, we are being given the bill voted in committee! But, since greed does not stop there, we are now being offered the law drafted as a co-production information mission on a prescription! We think we're dreaming! Is that the standard you want to set for tomorrow? Is that the work around the law? Beyond the fact that this reform was not included in Emmanuel Macron's program, which is already problematic, a fundamental question arises, Madam Minister: what happened on Wednesday, which did not happen two weeks ago? What prevented you two weeks ago from offering us what you just proposed today? What prevented you from presenting to us, as you have just done, this project and this method – which I also dispute? With regard to labour orders, the Government had at least had the class, if I may say so, to announce them in advance. He explained to us that this method gave us more flexibility to negotiate with trade union organizations, that parliamentarians could be associated with them: at least we knew what sauce we were going to eat! The use of ordinances was challenged on the form and substance of the reform of the Labour Code. But what is it that this amendment tabled last night, which is under fined, to have time to speak, to discuss, to exchange on the subject? Does this approach seem satisfactory to you and to us? You have nevertheless agreed that this discussion should take place in the early afternoon, not at four or five in the morning, so that the maximum number of colleagues can be present. What the hell is this? [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr. Gosselin is right: what fly did you catch, Madam Minister? And you, colleagues of the majority, whom I saw applauding earlier on about her, perhaps interesting on the other hand, what fly so pricked you to think that this is how life is going and that we can trust the minister? Are you so few parliamentarians to accept such methods?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u64	No lesson! What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u65	Come on, no unnecessary provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u66	Continue, Mr Bernalicis, to support sub-amendment 1654.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u67	You're surprised, which is understandable. I would have been just as much in your place. You were only a handful, indeed, to know the existence of this amendment, four or five at most. I know that because you were discussing it outside the Chamber. The Chair of the Law Committee did not, herself, make these extraordinary remarks: "I have to see how we react to the information mission because the elements arrive at us in a certain timing." It's true that the timing is certain! All of this is strange to say the least, if not crazy. If I were president of the Law Commission, I would feel despised! Who would I be taken for? For the chairman of a commission of nothing at all? Would I be a temporary congestion for the Government? A little reaction, colleagues. We are all committed to making proposals for justice and the protection of minors, even if they are diametrically opposed to those of our colleagues, the Republicans. Our differences do not prevent us from protesting together for this debate to be held here, publicly, under the eyes of the French and not somewhere in an office, by order. Minister, you are trying to reassure us that there will be clearance time and that these measures will only take effect in a year or even more. So why rush everything today? Why do you have to work like this? You could have opened a sixth court yard, as my colleague Philippe Gosselin pointed out. It's true that it's already done. I remember your speech at the time, telling us that a secret site was under way. You used that term, not necessarily happy, especially since it was not secret because we all understood it was about the department's human resources. Dear colleague Philippe Gosselin, it is therefore a seventh judicial project that will have to be asked to look at juvenile justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u68	Hercules' work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u69	I do not see how this method could not have been used for juvenile justice, by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u70	I call Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde to support Amendment No. 1657.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u71	I see that you are all trying the method rather than basically defending your sub-amendments. It's a good war, but I'll still try to introduce mine. Many of you are calling for constant reform. In this case, there is no reform since the existing law is rewritten, which would not change much. I do not understand that we want to throw the method to the nettles, on the pretext that we do not understand the reason. Some of my colleagues, on both sides of the Chamber, yesterday in the majority, find themselves in opposition today, where it is a good war to proclaim loud and clear that we do not want ordinances. I am pleased to acknowledge that I do not appreciate the method more. However, these same parliamentarians, once in the majority, find the best reasons to legislate by order. Fall masks: Although I do not understand the rationale in this case, the order may be necessary. As long as it is, however, it must be accompanied by parliamentarians, contrary to what is being done today. For my part, I prefer to leave aside the reasons for defending a new method of work, which would not ignore Parliament, and which would be valid under this majority as under the following. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You blame us for being very few parliamentarians, Mr Bernalicis. On the contrary, I think it is enough to ask for my say in the drafting of orders. Indeed, they exist and, while you will say everything you want, all governments will have used them. I come to the substance of the sub-amendment. Juvenile justice suffers from a major dysfunction. Of the minors who pass before a juvenile judge, 90-95% will no longer go back to the criminal chain – I am talking about delinquency, not other protection measures. On the other hand, the remaining 5 or 10 per cent, which engulf the entire chain, are treated equally. Usually, the political debate revolves around the greater or lesser severity of the measures. This is a subject, but in this case, it seems to me more important to decide whether to make a decision more quickly for a repeat offender than for a primary offender. This sub-amendment therefore seeks to clarify that the aim of speeding up the trial is, in particular, for minors who are repeat offenders or who are in a state of re-initiation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] When 300 cases are pending in the magistrate's office, and the case of a multi-recidivist arrives in 301th position, we must not wait for the first 300 cases to be dealt with: his case must be given priority because he is the one who most needs to be protected and punished, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u72	I call Mr Bernalicis to support sub-amendment No. 1655.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u73	I would like to defend the sub-amendments in substance, but they are deletion sub-amendments, which are the same at the level of the method: to withdraw this amendment, which provides for the authorisation to reform the criminal justice of minors by order. In terms of form, a fact-finding mission had been established. I am also surprised that the Chair of the Law Committee has talked about it in the past because it is not over. It's strange. Even Cécile Untermaier, co-rapporteur of this fact-finding mission, knew no more than the others that an order would revisit the justice of minors and their protection – if we talk about it, at least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u74	We'll talk about it, I told you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u75	I was at the seventh yard of justice. Madam Minister, you have praised the merits of this method, of this broad consultation, necessary, indispensable, which would make it possible to sit around the table all the actors concerned, which would give legitimacy to the reports resulting from these projects, which would give you the legitimacy to propose articles on the substance, within the framework of this bill. And finally, none of this in the area of juvenile justice. It's strange. The youth judicial protection unions, which I received a few weeks ago, had asked me about a possible backstage reform. I had replied that they were not aware of this, as the only measure proposed was the construction of twenty closed educational centres. Either the trade unionists were better informed than I was, or something eludes me in the operation of Parliament, even if we are beginning to get used to being the last to know everything, including what matters to us in the first place, to make the law. You're saying it's not a forceful passage. Yes, it is. Your amendment comes like a hair on the soup. If you had explained your method to us three weeks ago, I could have understood, at the extreme limit, but that is not the case. What fly caught you, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u76	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1658.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u77	This new sub-amendment, similar to the previous one, aims to clarify that the objective of strengthening the care of minors by means of probationary measures must include the treatment of minors who are repeat offenders or who are in a state of re-iteration. It is indeed a matter of not placing them in the same queue, in the same procedure, to go faster and protect them more quickly. Let's go back to the method. It may make sense, provided that the National Assembly does its work during and after the drafting of the ordinances. Finally, everything we are saying right now is just avoiding a debate, but what is our ability to amend the text afterwards? Therefore, Madam Minister, that you have made a commitment that the order will not come into force until the ratification debate takes place, we will have a fairly conventional parliamentary debate, if not the absence of shuttles, since our ability to amend will remain intact. Finally, I have carefully read and reread the Government's amendment. How can I oppose the desire to simplify, clarify and speed up juvenile justice? It is necessary to speed up the care of the minor, sometimes even before his conviction, because it is unnecessary to wait for him to be found guilty in order to get him out of the spiral of delinquency in which he is found. The punishment must come, of course, but it must also be removed from this spiral because it is not yet an adult but an adult in the process of becoming. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The philosophy of your project seems to me to have to be shared by all but it is in the writing, the co-writing of this text, the ability of the majority to hold a real debate, open, when the time for ratification comes, that lies the effectiveness, validity and importance of the method. I would like to draw your attention one last time to the fact that this method could make jurisprudence. This does not further legitimize the ordinances. Look what's going on with the Brexit. If the House of Commons does not validate the agreement just reached, orders will have to be made, and no one will be able to amend, no one will see anything so fast the procedure will be. On the contrary, using a method that prevents the Government from acting alone in its corner, hidden from everyone in a room, would allow us to gain transparency, relevance and legitimacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u78	Mr Didier Paris, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u79	I will try not to paraphrase the words of the excellent President Lagarde because he said a lot of things, almost everything. Why and how? We are all aware that the 1945 order can and must still evolve. Juvenile justice is so important in our country that in some areas President Lagarde has spoken for it, but he is not the only one because many of us live in this situation, we feel the need to continue to adapt the 1945 Ordinance and to change the criminal justice system for minors. That is the meaning of the Government's amendment. A second reason is the need to codify. No fewer than 39 amendments to the 1945 Order have been made since its inception. It is possible that both law professionals and parliamentarians will end up getting lost in this maelström. We need to codify this text again. Should we simply codify or use the elements of this codification to improve the text? The minister has expressed her personal convictions in order to speed up the procedure of juvenile justice, simplify it, improve care by means of probative measures, on which you tabled two sub-amendments, Mr Lagarde. How can we oppose these ambitious, necessary, imperative goals that will improve juvenile justice? That's impossible. As for the method, things are clear. If we all agree that we must and can move forward on this issue, why not retain the one proposed to us? It would involve risks, of course, but I would ask you to read the amendment again. For constitutional reasons derived from article 38, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, not everything can be detailed, but the explanatory memorandum takes up the proposed method, which is based on two principles. First of all, this reform cannot be achieved without Parliament and without our full involvement in its ratification. In addition, time is left for us to prepare this work, since the one-year deadline is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. Why should we do without the excellent work done by Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier? I do not go back to the way it will be exploited, as the Chair of the Law Committee has explained it sufficiently. Various solutions are possible but the most important, and the opposite is not sustainable, remains that Parliament is fully involved in the evolution of the law of minors. In the end, aside from certain political postures – which I can perfectly understand in the circumstances –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u80	Thank you, my lord!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u81	It's not going to go well, if you take it in that tone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u82	... there is no serious reason why parliamentarians we are opposed to the Government's objective and method.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u83	If: either we organize a real adversarial debate, or you stay in the postures!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u84	May I speak, Mrs Faucillon? I come to the other sub-amendments, which I will take in disorder. The members of the La France insoumée group have decided to sub-amend the Government's amendment because they are opposed to it: they reject the acceleration and simplification of procedures, as well as the taking over of minors through probationary measures. Sub-amendment No 1653 is intended to remove the objective of simplification. How can we be opposed to this objective?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u85	Because we are for good and for evil!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u86	I will not come back to this issue, which we discussed at length this morning. Sub-amendment No 1654 goes in the same direction. As for Subamendment No 1655, it surprises me a little, Mr Bernalicis, because you should be consistent with yourself, if you do not agree with us. However, you have consistently argued that there is a need to strengthen and improve the care of both adults and minors through probationary measures. Why, in these circumstances, do you now adopt a different posture? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u87	That's because I don't trust you, Mr. Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u88	The identical sub-amendments tabled by the members of the Republican Group are intended to limit the purpose of the order to codification on a constant basis. I can understand the reason for this: they are explained by the way things are presented to us. However, we should go beyond this first level of understanding and admit that, in the context of the work we will be carrying out in common – as was said earlier – codification can be associated with a profound improvement in the texts. I ask you to adhere to this approach, which was excellently presented by President Lagarde. Codifications and improvement; To do one without the other would be to move forward by stinging: it is not necessarily the most effective, nor is it the objective that we want to achieve, for the benefit of the French people, especially minors, whose situation we must improve, including in criminal matters. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, Mr Lagarde, if I understand the logic of your two sub-amendments, there is no reason, at this stage in any case, to limit the effects of probation and recidivism. This, I believe, will be an integral part of the substantive issues that will need to be addressed in our future discussions, in which I invite you to participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u90	Before I give my opinion on the various sub-amendments, I will answer the question raised by Mrs Faucillon, Mr Habib and others, who asked me why the review of the 1945 Order was now taking place and why it was not going through a classic bill. If I propose this method,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u91	If I impose it on you, you mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u92	...that's because I want us to be confident that we will succeed together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u94	It is this concern that enlivens me. I therefore propose a new method, which will allow everyone to work together in order to avoid the recurrence of what has happened so far, namely a succession of failures. We have been trying to revise the 1945 Ordinance for ten years, and we have been failing for ten years; It is because I want to guard against another failure that I propose this new method, based on the observation of a strict timetable, which will force us to work...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u95	That's for sure, you're forcing us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u96	... in a limited time, but long enough to allow us to carry out serious work. In the end, the guiding idea is: let us be coerced to act, with a timetable, a method and results. Here's what I want to do with you. [[Smile]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Gosselin, you are astonished at the urgency in which the Government wants to act and you ask me what fly has bit me, but it is you, Member of Parliament, who have bit me! You and so many others who have played, in a certain way, the flies of the tick! I'm glad. You all told me that it was urgent to act. I see this urgency when I go to the field, for example in Seine-Saint-Denis: we cannot stay without doing anything. That is why I propose to take action – and I would like to take you together in this project. Earlier, Mrs Faucillon spoke of cooperation and Mr Habib of co-production. I don't know if we'll achieve this goal,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u97	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u98	...I also don't know if you'd like to, but in any case, it's a cooperative work that I'd like to do with you. Mr Bernalicis, both in your amendments and in your speeches, you blame me for not working with professionals and for favouring "passing in force". That's not true. I told you earlier that a working group had been in place for a few months at the Chancellery.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u99	It was Le Monde who revealed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u100	I don't know, I haven't read Le Monde – I don't have time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u101	Yet, you mentioned it earlier...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u102	This working group, I said, includes professionals, parliamentarians and magistrates, which is very interesting to consider how to move things forward. I really want to focus on joint work, because on this subject, it is cooperation that will allow us to move forward. I come to the various sub-amendments. Mr Gosselin, the identical sub-amendments tabled by the members of your group propose constant codification. At the same time, you say that it is necessary to put the subject on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u103	With you, it would be pretty much under the table!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u104	So you're prompting me to look into the matter. You add that you would accept the hand stretched if the menu was generous. Now, honourable Member, the card you propose in your restaurant is even less generous than the one I propose to you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u105	[[Smile]] He's on the diet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u106	You don't go to the same restaurants as Mr. Darmanin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u107	[[Smile]] Take the coffee with us, we'll debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u108	... since you want to codify on a regular basis when I propose that you work together on the revision of the entire 1945 Order, both to make its content more coherent, which is indispensable, and to make certain provisions evolve. It is therefore a much smaller menu that you are proposing, and that is why I cannot support your sub-amendments. Mr Masson, you have done me the honour of quoting the words I made in committee. However, I see no contradiction between what I said then, as you pass it on – we have to open up the work of juvenile justice, but I cannot do so in the context of this bill – and what I am proposing today, namely to open this work and drive it together in a few months' time. You're not gonna take me in the act of incoherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u109	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You're a masked forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u110	Mr Savignat, you are right, but I will give you the same answer as Mr Masson: the purpose of this bill is not, in itself, to reform the 1945 Order. However, the urgency highlighted by all Members and the situation I have observed lead me to open the door to a development, which I hope we will, together, bring to a successful conclusion. Mr Lagarde, you have stressed the value of the proposed method, and I would like to thank you for that. It seems to me that the same method had already been used, in part, in the work on Bercy's lock. If we can work like this, it's promising! You have mentioned various topics, including those of repeat offenders and repeaters. I wish to speed up the trial of all juvenile offenders. It is essential for everyone, and not only for repeat offenders and repeaters: it is equally important to speed up the judgment of first offenders, in order to prevent them from recidivism. As far as probative measures are concerned, however, we could indeed treat repeat offenders and repeaters differently. We will probably have to work on this. I conclude in a few words, which will be the last I will decide on the matter. If the process we are proposing ends, I do not want a dry ratification of the order. I therefore pledge that there will be a broad debate when the text that we have drawn up comes before you. I really hope that we can have such a debate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I express an unfavorable opinion on all the sub-amendments, with the exception of sub-amendment No 1658, to which I am in favour. I should like to point out to Mr Lagarde that my unfavourable opinion also concerns sub-amendment No 1657, unless it is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that all those wishing to speak have been able to register with the Presidency. Calm down, everyone will be able to speak! First of all, Mr Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u112	I will follow the steps taken by our excellent rapporteur, Didier Paris, to explain the position of the La République group in this debate. I am pleased that the same observation is shared by all the groups and by all the Members present in this Chamber, from Mr Bernalicis to Mr Collard: that the 1945 order, amended on 39 occasions, requires a recast, in the interests of the people involved, of minors, as in the case of legal practitioners, who do not understand much more today – Mr Collard has reminded us – as much as the layers have been stacked above each other. As long as we share this point, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen: let's go! I thank Mr Lagarde for abounding in our sense, although I do not agree at all with what he said about the functioning of juvenile justice. After all, it doesn't matter, since we can debate it, as Mrs. Keeper of the Seals invited us to do. In fact, the issue of juvenile justice does not happen this way, unexpectedly, before Parliament. As the Chair of the Law Committee has said, there has been a reflection on the subject since April 2018: it has been seven months since we discussed the issue in an information mission in which all parliamentary groups are represented, with the exception of one. Mr Dunoyer represents the group IUD, Agir et indépendants, Mrs Buffet the group of the Democratic and Republican Left, Mrs Untermaier the Socialist and related group, Mr Bernalicis the group La France insoumé...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u113	Thank you for closing, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u114	We have been talking about juvenile justice for seven months. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, you have asked us to assist you in the implementation of this project. You have proposed a method that satisfies parliamentarians, who will be able to express themselves and co-build with you the order resulting from this authorization. The majority group will obviously vote in favour of this amendment, which aims to empower the Government to revise the 1945 Ordinance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed Mr Terlier to exceed his speaking time, because it was normal to allow the chairman of the fact-finding mission to speak. However, I would like to give the floor to all those who have requested it. Fourteen speakers are still to speak, and I will now respect the two-minute speaking time allocated to each speaker. Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u116	A few weeks ago, when attacks involving minors caused injuries, and even deaths, both minor and sometimes very young – thirteen years old – parliamentarians, in the Senate and in this Chamber, questioned the Government. Each with its own words and sensitivity, we have described an emergency situation, where the minors involved are becoming younger and their acts are becoming more and more violent. Personally, I didn't forget it. I had told you, Madam, of the seals, of the questions and, sometimes, of the dismay of the magistrates, the police and the elected officials in this situation. They wonder how to avoid recidivism and get out of the delinquency of minors who make victims and are themselves victims. As you have said, the question of the time limit is essential if the answer is to be understood by the juvenile offender, by professionals and by the French as a whole. I would therefore like to pay tribute, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to the voluntarism and consistency which you have shown here and which Mr Masson has stressed. You have been able to measure the problem we are facing and you have decided to act quickly. Thank you. The method you propose to involve parliamentarians is unprecedented. It will provide an additional guarantee that this work of legislative co-production will be located as close to the ground as possible and that it will be successful. The path that you propose to the elected representatives that we are is an answer adapted both to the extreme need to act and to the need to get out of the caricatures, which, too often, have prevented progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u117	You're the one making caricatures!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u118	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This is a very responsible attitude, shared by some colleagues, which I welcome, and which I am sure will find a very favourable echo with the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u119	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u120	Madam Minister, my colleagues in the Group of the Democratic Movement and I agree with the point you make on the substance. Like you, we are convinced that juvenile justice must be more effective, that the speed of punishment is an essential condition for its effectiveness, both in terms of respect for victims and the effect it can have on juvenile offenders, and that codification is necessary. However, we were puzzled this morning, hearing what was being said and reading the press. After your explanations, however, we understand the meaning of the method you are proposing, which is to involve parliamentarians. You consider this point essential; For my part, I find this normal. I would also like to pay tribute to the very good work done in the information mission by our colleagues Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier. I would like – and I believe that this position is shared by many of my colleagues – that this mission closes its work and returns its report in December and that an ad hoc working group be set up in a spirit of legislative co-production respecting the rights of the opposition. It would also be necessary, as you mentioned, for parliamentarians and the Government to agree on the terms of that work and on the timetable. We trust you with regard to the method chosen, which Mrs Guévenoux described as "unpublished" and which seems to me a good method, as well as with regard to the broad debate on the order you call your wishes. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to give you our support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u121	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u122	Minister, I will come back to a point of method. I confess my astonishment: you have spoken to us about "dialogue", about "co-operation", you have even mentioned, taking the word of a parliamentarian, "co-production", but how can this be the case when an amendment is tabled at the last minute, without warning anyone? That's a bad signal! You are asking us to authorize you to legislate by order to amend the Child Offender Ordinance 1945. We all here recognize the importance of the subject, but this again raises a question of method. Last night, in fact, a member of the majority explained to us that, as was said earlier, a fact-finding mission had been working on the subject for several months, trying, in doing so, to make us feel guilty: once the work of the members of this fact-finding mission is reported, it is: "Circulate, there is nothing to see! The other Members do not have a say. However, this reform of the utmost importance concerns each of the 577 Members who sit here. We are aware incidentally that you have also convened a working group at the Chancery, with the participation of parliamentarians. First news! I imagine they are parliamentarians of the majority. What do you do with the others? Again about the method, which you consider to be innovative, you refer to a legislative partnership, of which we do not know anything. We learn from the words of the Chair of the Law Committee that there is this fact-finding mission, but that it may not be she who will be working on the issue, that it will rather be a new ad hoc group. In short, we know nothing about the method or who will be associated with it. I therefore specifically request that this be included in the record of the sitting that a non-attached Member be involved in this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u123	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u124	A few words also about the method, even if we should get to the bottom of it. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] As for me, Mr. Lagarde, I consider that the reason is very important to be able to decide how. However, if we have tried for a moment to find out why, I am not sure that the answers that have been given to us are sufficient to be able to decide how. However, Madam Minister, what I have heard so far has not convinced me of the urgency of this revision or of the fact that cooperation would turn into co-production, and when I see how the majority and the Government exercise power, I find it hard to believe it. Then, Mr rapporteur, if you call "positions" the main principles that guide political choices and membership, an ordinance can quite well be written by technocracy, leaving aside any political choice! Yet, as in my case, one can live in a territory almost identical to that of which Mr. Lagarde is elected – to such an extent that Gennevilliers is often mentioned as a commune of Seine-Saint-Denis, while it belongs to the department of Hauts-de-Seine – and to be a local elected representative very involved in the neighborhoods, while having a completely different political vision of what to do there. If it were fully implemented and found its full exercise, the 1945 Order would continue to agree to me, provided that the balance between repression and education was maintained. But this balance does not exist, not only because the repression does not always find adequate answers – the number of people in prison is exploding – but also because the educational system has a very significant lack. As far as speed is concerned, I fully oppose what has been said, firstly because speed is today a reality – with, when necessary, immediate appearances for minors – and secondly because the long time is precisely necessary to maintain the balance between repression and education and to foster awareness, provided, of course, that the objectives of integration and adulthood are the objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u125	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u126	[[Rites and exclamations]] Madam Minister, I have come to know you by virtue of the law for a state in the service of a society of trust and I will make you a confession: I sometimes found you unbearable,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u127	It's time to tell him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u128	... especially when you defined the parliamentary function and, morning, noon and evening, you reminded us that we had to do evaluation rather than exercise our function as we did in the past – even though it seems to me that we are doing it quite well. On the subject of evaluation, where is the impact assessment that could enrich our collective reflection before voting on your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u129	This is precisely the task of the information mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u130	You have the feeling yourself that there is a lack there! [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] When I said earlier that we needed a bill, not an amendment, to debate your proposal, I also referred to the need for an impact assessment and other ministers' advice. While you are competent and legitimate to discuss these issues, other ministries are involved. For example, Mr Blanquer could also speak on the issue and an intergovernmental approach could be taken involving, for example, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Now, nothing like that; We don't have any details. You've certainly been thinking about these questions, but you haven't told us anything. Admit that I don't lie by saying that! Secondly, Madam Minister, you said that you wanted us to go to the end this time, and we acknowledge it, but the interruption of the previous processes was not the fault of Parliament: it was the executive power that had interrupted them – notably under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy. By misleading Parliament as you do – which is not correct – you are worried about the constitutional reform that Mr Lagarde wants, and I am not. I fear that this is the premise of a change in the parliamentary debate, which would make it possible for the Government, in the event of difficulties, to request both the possibility of legislative regulation by order and the establishment of a small working group of a few people, which would allow the issue to be resolved discreetly. The Socialist and related Group has not tabled any amendments, because it has been confronted with the problem, mentioned by Mr Gosselin, of what amendment to table when we are forced by parliamentary law. However, we will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by our colleagues from different groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u131	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u132	Minister, all this is really not serious! Why is this amendment coming now? What's the emergency? Why introduce an amendment to allow the government to legislate by order, rather than a bill? Perhaps it is because you want to decide alone with whom you will work, who will participate in the work and who will be associated? However, this is not about anything: it is about juvenile justice. It is a vision of society that we are talking about – and under quite unbearable conditions, which you had already imposed on us in the debate on the ordinances reforming the labour code. After a year and a half of exercising power, you have still not understood that we are in France and that we cannot with impunity brutalize the French institutions and people, nor, at the turn of a budgetary amendment, increase the taxes on fuel in the name of an alleged ecological transition, when it is only a matter of filling the gap that you have created in public finances by offering the most fortunate the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u133	Let's go back to the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u134	The people do not let themselves be done. The "yellow vests" show us that one cannot always take the poorest to give to the richest. With such methods, you despise parliamentarians, the people, the State and the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u135	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u136	On 23 October last, I asked the Government, in a question-and-answer session, about the events in Créteil. This was one of the first questions on the subject. You were absent that day and Mr. Blanquer answered me. Some events – one might say: a different fact – put the question back on the table, but the problem is old and many governments have broken their teeth on the revision of the 1945 order. Between 2008 and 2010, Rachida Dati had worked in this direction with the rector Varinard, who had produced a 200-page report, which I read and which is very interesting. Ms. Taubira also tried to review this order. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches and on several LR benches]] It seems to me that, on all benches, a consensus is expressed that this order does not work, that its application is difficult for both judges and victims and that it does not protect our children enough. It is true that Parliament sometimes finds that law-making by order is a rather harsh procedure which makes it somewhat difficult, but I think that the proposed formula is quite new and rather fair-play, very different from the ordinances we have known. I recall that there were 282 of them under the chairmanship of Mr. Chirac, 170 during the quinquennium of Mr. Sarkozy and 274 during the quinquennium of Mr. Hollande.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u137	Talk about the amendment! We are not against the ordinances in principle!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u138	Let's stay calm, ladies and gentlemen. I find that the proposed co-construction is part of a new vision of legislation by order. We have something unedited here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u139	Please conclude, Mr. Balanant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u140	[[Laurent Pietraszewski applauds]] Given the seriousness of the subject of juvenile delinquency, we owe it to our children to do what a parliament must do at some point: innovate by inventing new ways of dealing with issues. I congratulate you, Minister, on this innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u141	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u142	This has always been the responsibility of the executive if progress has not been made in the area of juvenile justice legislation. If Christiane Taubira did not succeed, it was not because of Parliament, it was because the executive did not want to put the subject on the table – but he probably had very good reasons for this, as the state of emergency had very quickly shaken the calendar. But if the executive really wants to, it can very well introduce an ordinary bill or an enabling bill, and go through with it. Endorsing what my colleague David Habib has said, I will make a few additional remarks. First, that some parliamentarians be involved in the work of the services of the Ministry of Justice, that an information mission be set up in the Senate and that there be in the National Assembly a fact-finding mission on juvenile justice, of which I am, together with Jean Terlier, the co-rapporteur – we are working very well together – all this is perfect, but not a parliamentary debate. Secondly, at the end of my work with Mr Terlier – given that we have not yet submitted our report and that we have not even discussed it together – I did not have the impression that there was an irrepressible and urgent need to legislate on this mechanism. On the contrary, it seemed to me that everything was already in the 1945 order and that the successive changes in it had met the expectations of many magistrates and those involved in crime prevention. Therefore, I do not recognize myself in the speech calling for urgent legislation. On the other hand, and I agree with you on this point, Madam Seal Guard, it appeared to me that it was necessary to give the device more legibility. This certainly requires codification of the various provisions, which means removing slags that cause legibility to be lost to the legislative texts. Well, what about the budget? This is absolutely essential, because there is a need for a sufficient number of judges and integration advisers to carry out the educational measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u143	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u144	However, the budget provided for in this draft programming bill already provides a first response.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u145	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u146	I want to congratulate the majority couple, who would have – apart from a few insiders, and we know that there are always some in the right blows – discovered this morning in the press that a change in juvenile justice was not only envisaged, but already ready, since we see it coming now like a hair on the soup,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u147	We've known that since the question-and-answer session in the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u148	...through an amendment by the Government aimed at once again bypassing the powers of Parliament. That is at least what our colleagues in the MODEM Group – well-known parliamentarians – are telling us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u149	No, that's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u150	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] How beautiful is the Government's solidarity with its majority! If, Madam Minister, members of the Republicans group share your desire to adapt juvenile justice – as we said: this is not the problem – the disagreement is about the substance of the reform and the means to be devoted to it. The remedies we offer are not exactly the same as yours, but we are ready to discuss them. We believe that the provisions on juvenile justice should be codified. This would not be the first time a prescription codifies; It's even a good procedure to prevent things from going in every direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u151	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u152	We've done it in other times and under other majorities, and we're not going to make a bad case on this point. The problem here is that we are witnessing a complete short-circuiting of Parliament through the use of orders. It is only as we discuss that you dress your impreparation of a method, a method that is discovered in the little pink notebook of the president of the commission of laws...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u153	[[Smile]] It's sexist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u154	... or at the reading of the government amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All this raises a lot of questions. This way of forcing Parliament seems to me to be at least inappropriate. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us suffer from our disapproval, while at the same time doing what is necessary to ensure that the work on this reform can continue, because it is important that juvenile justice be reviewed, but in better conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u155	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u156	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u157	Madam Minister, you say that you will have the assurance that you will succeed... But don't you have a plethoric majority in this assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u158	Too plethora!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u159	It's true there's not a lot of people on your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u160	What are you afraid of? Of your own majority? No, I don't believe it. So why do you have to operate like this? What prevented you from introducing a bill, or even supporting a bill, if you wanted to value some of the members of the majority while bypassing the requirement for an impact assessment – we have seen such examples of skill in the past? "Let us be coerced to act," you say; But I didn't decide to force myself! For my part, I want a debate, as do most of my opposition colleagues. But there will be none, or it will be confined – it is already. You also said that you were outraged to read in the press that everything is written in advance... while indicating that a working group had already met for several months, composed of professionals and magistrates – but not representatives of the trade unions – as well as parliamentarians. But who are they, those parliamentarians who are hiding in the shadows to reform without knowing of the completeity of this House? I wish I knew. Why wasn't I invited to participate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u161	But I invite you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u162	Am I not as good as the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u163	[[Smile]] He really needs to be told that he's the best...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u164	Am I less involved in juvenile justice? However, I am perhaps closer to the minority than some others in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u165	It's elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u166	Let us conclude Mr Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u167	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] And then, basically, I heard a lot of nonsense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u168	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u169	Yet the facts are there: juvenile delinquency is falling as the confinement of minors climbs. On the basis of this fact alone, you should reflect on what you are doing, Madam Minister, by proposing, in addition to this order, twenty additional closed educational centres. That is what we are worried about in the La France group, both in terms of substance and form!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u170	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u171	I listened carefully to the minister and the rapporteur, and we share the same observation: the 1945 order must of course be reformed. We've been saying this for years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u172	Let's do it then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u173	The end does not justify the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u174	But it's just as obvious that we didn't discover the problem yesterday, that it could have been taken into account in your program...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u175	Yes! It's not in there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u176	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] ...and that you had time to incorporate legislation into this bill or to submit it to the Senate at first reading. We do not understand why all this has not been done. What happened in the night from Tuesday to Wednesday? Why deprive Parliament of the drafting of the law? Why turn this assembly into a recording chamber? You choose a procedure that the Constitution provides for in exceptional circumstances for the implementation of your programme. However, the measures you are proposing were not included in the bill, and only section 52 provides for a few minor amendments to section 33 of the 1945 Order. There is no real urgency either, since you propose a six-month deadline for drawing up the order, followed by a debate in the Assembly and then a year of waiting: in the most optimistic case, at least eighteen months are reached. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] As you have set yourself a specification in which you have twenty months, we have all the time to put a text on the agenda of the National Assembly and to draw up this reform calmly, together. To do this, we have the right institutions: there is no need to go and get a toolbox made of bric and broc. Let us do so under conditions that are serene and respectful of our institutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u177	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u178	It is entirely legitimate to have this debate, the subject being essential and of course within the competence of parliamentarians. It's a good war. Nevertheless, I would like to note some contradictions in the speech of those who express their reluctance to the method proposed by the Government. Thus, those who are in favour of a very rapid development of juvenile criminal law because it is no longer consistent with today's society find that the subject is placed on the table too quickly. And those who complain about the use of ordinances – they were heard during the reform of labour law – now reject the Government's proposal for collaborative participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u179	This proposal is a masquerade!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u180	If it is the novelty that scares them, let them be reassured: this novelty is a hand stretched so that we can decide together on a major subject. Above all, we should focus on the substance, that is to say, on the objective, which must bring us all together. First, it is necessary to codify the provisions, because the 1945 Order has become a stack of illegible texts, it has been said for years. We have an opportunity to do it at last. Secondly, it is important to reform juvenile justice, in order to do everything possible to ensure that a juvenile offender does not become a major offender tomorrow. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore a proposal that must be tested, even if it is a novelty, because we will thus give ourselves the means to act quickly and in a spirit of collaboration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u181	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u182	I am by nature sufficiently reserved, not to say hostile, for the use of ordinances. In my ideal constitutional world, there probably wouldn't be. But that's how it is... I have listened with interest to our colleague David Habib defending Parliament against the ordinances, as he did under Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, forgetting to do under François Hollande's, voting the laws of empowerment without cinching.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u183	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u184	274 orders!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u185	He wants a virginity again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u186	That is why I explained earlier that all the governments that have used them, I prefer, even if this is not the ideal, to establish a case law. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Isabelle Florennes also applauds]] You are, however, right, Mrs Faucillon: why now? I think I finally figured it out. All the guards of the previous seals have made the same observation as we have, that juvenile justice does not work properly and that it must be modified and codified at the same time. All of them tried to climb this legal mountain through the north face, and all of them unscrewed and failed. Actually, minister, you're trying to go through the south side. What interests me is that we get to the top, that we finally manage to get things moving. Like Mr David Habib, I have been in this Chamber for a long time, and I see that we have never been able to defeat this mountain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u187	But this is not because of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u188	If one could hope to achieve this by means of an innovative method that would make case law, I think it would be good. I suggested, by means of two sub-amendments, that we should begin to direct the forthcoming reform to minors who are repeat offenders or who are in a state of repetition – the adverb "in particular" to make it clear, Mr rapporteur, that this approach would not be exclusive. I will withdraw sub-amendment No 1657 in order to save our House time. I expect, however, from the process under way that it will provide an opportunity to hear different views, including that of a simple parliamentarian or an opposition group, so that we can put things together and write the reform together. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, we should look at each other. Unfortunately, there are absolute majorities in our system which, in general, block by imposing everything on the oppositions. The adoption of an amendment to focus on the particular case of recidivists and repeaters might give oppositions a greater ability to be heard. I hope in any case that you will send a signal in this direction and that the follow-up will confirm it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u189	It's voluntary servitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u190	No, it's a sense of public interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u191	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u192	I accept President Lagarde's excellent remarks. They enable the questions asked by Mr Savignat to be answered. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] You're right, Mr. Savignat: why didn't you do this before? Why was this reform not clearly included in our programme? And why didn't they do it yesterday?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u193	"They" were many of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u194	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Why didn't you do it the day before yesterday? We all make the same observation today: we have been too late; As a result, the situation of juvenile offenders and, more generally, juvenile offenders has deteriorated. It is imperative that we provide an answer; There is an urgent need to do so. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] I'll give you my personal feeling. The work in committee, to which you, like me, have assisted and which have been very long, has shown that two things are sorely lacking: on the one hand, a major reform of legal aid; On the other hand, a large text on minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u195	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u196	The problem is that neither is in the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u197	As far as legal aid is concerned, a mission has been carried out and in the coming weeks and months we will be opening up the great task of its reform. But what do we do about minors, once the finding has been made? It is also known that there is a heavy prior work to codify the various provisions to be made, since the 1945 Order has been amended many times in recent years – I will not repeat what has been said. The Ordinance will enable this preliminary codification and grooming work to be carried out, with a view to establishing a text on the basis of which we can work calmly. There are two things that matter to me if Parliament's rights are to be respected – and I think all members of the running Republic Group will share my point of view. The first is that we are meeting here for a broad debate on the occasion of the ratification of the Order – President Lagarde invited the President of the sitting to transmit this information to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u198	Why don't you take Mr. Lagarde in the majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u199	We will have to have a great parliamentary debate on this subject that honours the work we are doing. The second thing that matters to me is that the implementation of the ordinances does not take place before the ratification text is voted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u200	Thank you, Mr. Mazars.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is the commitment made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that I have allowed fifteen statements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u203	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u204	I think we are sufficiently enlightened. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I shall first put to the vote, by public vote, identical sub-amendments Nos. 1646, 1647, 1648, 1649, 1651 and 1652.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u205	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 51 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 17 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u206	I put to the vote sub-amendment No. 1653.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u207	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 51 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 16 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u208	I put to the vote sub-amendment No. 1654.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 16 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u210	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 1655.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u211	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 47 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 14 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u212	I put to the vote Amendment No 1644 as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u213	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 51 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 33 Against 18
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u214	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 529.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u215	This amendment, of which our colleague Eric Ciotti is the first signatory, is based on the observation that the causes of the increase in violence against minors are partly due to a weakening of parental authority and supervision. The children concerned are sometimes the victims of a loss of landmarks and of parental disengagement from their education. As early as 2002, the World Health Organization recognized poor parenting as one of the factors contributing to crime. It is not acceptable for a minor to be convicted on several occasions without raising the question of the responsibility of his or her parents: this is the subject of this amendment. It is necessary both for the safety of the French and for the benefit of these young people that we emerge from the spiral of delinquency. You are therefore proposed to diversify the means of action against parents who would remain passive in the face of the unfavourable development of minors under their care and who, by default of supervision, maximize the risks of drifting towards delinquency. This amendment is therefore intended to ensure that all court decisions imposing obligations or prohibitions on a juvenile child offender are served on the holders of parental authority. At the same time, a contract would be established between the judiciary and the parents, which would include all coercive and follow-up measures. Under this contract, the parents would be obliged to ensure that the minor child complies with all the obligations and prohibitions to which he or she is subject. If, in a second stage, the measures provided for in the contract were not complied with, the parents, architects of the education of their children, could be subject to criminal prosecution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that everyone should now be concise in their statements, so that we can move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u217	Of course, Mr President – but it should also be through the limitation of speeches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u218	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u219	Unfavorable opinion: it seems to me that juvenile justice is not soluble in a contract, in particular a contract imposing an obligation of result on parents – who would be sentenced to 30000 euros fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u220	I have before me three amendments, Nos 359, 225 and 324, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u221	He's being defended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u222	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 225.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u223	He too is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u224	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u225	The purpose of this amendment is to reduce the criminal majority to 16 years. This seems to us to be very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u226	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u227	Exposing it in detail would imply long developments... Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u229	I responded earlier by introducing the amendment to empower the Government to legislate by order. Moreover, this proposal seems to me to be contrary to both constitutional principles and conventional principles. Finally, since the House has accepted that we should revise the 1945 order, this is a subject that we will be able to address in this context. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u230	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 528.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u231	Article 2 of the 1945 Ordinance provides that the Juvenile Court and the Juvenile Assize Court shall first and foremost issue educational measures and that such courts may impose an educational penalty or a penalty "where the circumstances and personality of the minor so require". This amendment, of which our colleague Eric Ciotti is the first signatory, tends to reverse this logic: the specialized courts would in principle impose sanctions and penalties, while educational measures would only be imposed when the circumstances and personality of the minor so require.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u233	Unfavorable notice: all decisions, measures, sanctions or penalties must also be pronounced against minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u234	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 407 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u235	Neither transport operators nor the public treasury can now turn to parents to obtain payment for a violation imposed on their minor child or for financial penalties resulting from an offence. Since children are mostly insolvent, there is no way to recover these amounts to date. While this provision is little known to the general public, which explains why many parents replace their children to pay, a sense of impunity begins to spread among those who have this information, which the Internet helps to disseminate. This provision therefore seems inappropriate and sends a bad signal to teenagers who have lost their marks. The aim of this amendment is therefore to return to the principle of family solidarity that existed before 1951, i.e. that family allowances should be seized in order to pay the fines imposed on minors by the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u237	Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u238	I have before me four amendments, Nos 865, 94, 530 and 531 which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 94 and 530 are identical. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 865.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u239	Without wishing to relaunch the debate, I would like to point out maliciously to our colleague Stéphane Mazars, who said earlier that there were two essential issues, juvenile justice and legal aid, that neither of them is currently included in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u240	However, we are not yet at the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u241	It is a shame that the courts have not planned it. In any case, I thank the majority for the two hours of introductory debate on the amendment of the 1945 order it offered us. For our part, we are now entering the heart of the matter. The purpose of this amendment is to lower the age of criminal majority. We will, of course, discuss this at a later stage, because I understand that at this stage of our debates we are not going to spend hours there. We understand that if the majority had opened the debate on this point, it was to close it immediately. As the minister said earlier, there is no question of reaching the age of criminal majority. [[Smile]] However, it is an ingredient to be stored for another recipe, perhaps for a future dinner. I therefore allow myself, Madam Minister, after having done the fly, to make a call from the foot – I do not know where all this will lead us, even if, of course, it will remain correct: honori be who thinks badly about it! It remains, more seriously, that the age of criminal majority is being debated, and this amendment was an opportunity to stress this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u242	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u243	[[Smile]] Although I do not have the same degree of intimacy with you as my colleague Gosselin, the keeper of the seals, I will defend this amendment tabled at the initiative of Alain Ramadier, which deals with the same subject. If a juvenile capable of discernment can be held liable, under article 20 (2) of the Ordinance of February 1945, the judge may not impose a custodial sentence of more than half of the sentence imposed under ordinary law on minors between the ages of 13 and 18 years. This principle of mitigation of sentences may be reversed by a decision of the judge with special reasons, "on an exceptional basis and taking into account the circumstances of the case and the personality of the minor and his or her situation", if the minor is over sixteen years of age. In the interests of realism, this amendment intends to revert to the principle of reducing the penalties for minors between the ages of 16 and 18 when they commit serious offences, on the charge of the judge to return, on an exceptional basis, to the mitigations and limitations provided for all minors by the 1945 Ordinance. The aim is to apply, as a matter of principle, the common law to minors between the ages of 16 and 18 for crimes of intentional assault on the life or physical integrity of the person, offences of voluntary violence or sexual assault, as well as acts of drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u244	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 530, identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u245	In the same logic as before, it is a matter of lowering the criminal majority to sixteen years of age, which we believe is appropriate in that children are much more mature and informed than before.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u246	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 531.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u247	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u248	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u249	A minor, I remind you, can be sentenced to imprisonment, even long sentences. However, the reduction of his sentence is automatic if he is under sixteen years of age and, by way of derogation, is possible if he is between sixteen and eighteen years of age. This mechanism seems to me to be balanced. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u251	I do not go back to the arguments I have made on several occasions. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u252	I have before me two amendments, Nos 113 and 592, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u253	I know that the debate is going to close, but, taking the hand of the minister, I hope that there will really be no taboo subject. The idea of extending work of general interest, the TGI, to minors between the ages of 13 and 16 could be surprising, but I ask that we really look at the issue. Since our rapporteur Didier Paris has done an excellent job on the work of general interest, I have no doubt that it will be of interest to him. I imagine that this amendment will receive an unfavorable opinion from both the committee and the Government, but I urge you not to evacuate this important subject with a back of your hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u254	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 592.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u255	This amendment, tabled on the initiative of Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart, aims to enable the judge to perform work of general interest to children over the age of 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u256	On the forthcoming amendment No 288, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u257	Mr Gosselin, we will indeed have the opportunity to speak again about the TIG – and not "TGI", as you said.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u258	Indeed: this lapsus probably betrays my will to evoke the courts of great instance before their disappearance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u259	In any event, these amendments simply do not seem to me to be in conformity with social law, according to which entry into apprenticeship cannot take place until the age of fifteen – or fourteen by way of derogation. I therefore do not see how a measure such as this could be applied to convicted minors. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u261	We are, of course, very constrained in this area by international conventions and the Labour Code, but aid and community-interest activities can be pronounced against minors between the ages of 13 and 16 years, for example as compensation measures. The measure relating to the daytime educational reception which we propose to you in a few moments will also contribute to the reintegration through the activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u262	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u263	By this amendment, we propose to decriminalise the offence of running away from a CEF, a closed educational centre, currently considered an offence of escape – as well as the escape of a prison – within the meaning of Article 434-27 of the Criminal Code. This entails the deletion of the reference to pre-trial detention or imprisonment in the event of a violation of the obligations to which the minor is subject. As stated by the Children's Ombudsman in her June 2010 report on the CEF, "the failure to comply with the obligations of placement which may result in the imprisonment of the minor is, in the first place [...] the practice of running away: [...] it is by no means an offence and cannot be considered as such". Such a runaway is, moreover, a reason for incarceration, which can lead to a course of delinquency, so that the CEF was only a stage before the real prison. According to my discussions with officials of a closed educational centre where things are going better than elsewhere, the offence of running away is in fact not applied: if it were, it would destroy the sometimes fruitful work carried out with some young people. It would therefore be appropriate to abolish the offence in order to ensure better care for delinquent children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u265	As I said in committee, Mr Bernalicis, I have some doubts about the very existence of an "offence of escape" of a CEF. In the event that you refer to it, the magistrate may impose a sentence of imprisonment, but he is obviously not obliged to do so. On this subject, we will have to consider an amendment by Stéphane Mazars and Jean Terlier. The opinion is therefore unfavourable at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u267	Mr Bernalicis' amendment seeks to prohibit the revocation of the measure which is the basis for the placement in the CEF and to replace it with a new referral to the juvenile judge. A 13-year-old is now facing a prison sentence for a simple runaway from a CEF. It certainly seems to me to be wise to regulate the conditions for the revocation of judicial review for the youngest, in particular by requiring a serious or repeated violation, and by ensuring that the reminder or aggravation of obligations does not appear sufficient. The removal of any possibility of revocation seems excessive. The amendment does not specify how the judge will be able to respond to the breach of his obligations. It would therefore deprive the juvenile court of one of its main levers to enforce the security measure imposed by it, even though these placements are designed, we may have the opportunity to return to them, as alternatives to imprisonment for multi-cidivist minors or who have committed the most serious acts. In this sense, your amendment is likely to make the action of the justice system in relation to minors more decredible. Unfavorable opinion. However, we will propose, a little further on, an amendment drafted differently and along the lines that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u268	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u269	If you propose an amendment along the same lines, it is good that there is a problem. Indeed, escaping from a closed educational centre, especially if it is done repeatedly, can lead to detention, whereas the purpose of these centres is precisely to avoid detention. We're walking on the head. My position may appear to you as far as the bottler is concerned, but it is in principle: this runaway must not be treated as an offence, and the minor, in this case, must go back to the children's judge. The latter has means at his disposal: discussion, mediation, exchange or more severe constraints. The ones we are talking about are perhaps delinquents, but also, let us not forget, children. That the offence of running away remains, for them, a reason for imprisonment seems to me to reveal a finding of failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u270	I put to the vote Amendment No 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u271	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 2 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u272	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u273	We propose to prevent the construction of closed educational centres and the opening of new reception places within them from 1 January 2019. This amendment therefore reflects a twofold choice on our part: a political choice and a budgetary choice. The political choice lies in the fact that, in our view, too many delinquent children are being detained in this country: it is a departure from the protection we owe them, which must be the first of our missions. Many closed educational centres have only the name: it is the professionals of the judicial protection of young people themselves who say so. Three of these centres were even simply closed because they were not functioning; Child abuse was carried out and children were poorly cared for. That's where we are! The €35 million – perhaps more – earmarked for the construction of 20 new closed educational centres would therefore be much better used in open-ended integration and probation services, which have proved their worth and which, for the moment, lack the means. In the absence of the possibility of placing children in an open environment, judges were reduced to sending them to closed educational centres where some of them had nothing to do. In fact, there are not just multi-recidivists in these centres, alas. The measure we are proposing, I repeat, therefore reflects both a political choice, which relates to the meaning of sanction, and a budgetary choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u275	This subject has already been widely discussed in the context of the annexed report. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u276	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 749, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u277	The purpose of article 52 is to define the arrangements for temporary accommodation in an outside environment for juvenile offenders. One of the main reasons for this measure is to defuse crisis situations. But I want to stress the perverse effect. The more violent, turbulent and unmanageable the young person, the more likely he or she is to be temporarily accommodated outside the placement facility, which could, instead of calming things down, promote a climate of violence. That is why we propose the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u279	The Senate has adopted the provision that you object to, Mr. Masson – but this is not the first time this is happening today. For our part, we are against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u281	I said this by introducing the bill as a whole: we really want to diversify the measures for the reception of minors; closed educational centres and the day-care educational measure contribute to this. It is essential to be able to slide from one measure to another and allow the gradual exit of young people, thus avoiding recidivism. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u282	I call Mr Terlier to support Amendment No. 1080, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u283	The aim is to bring our law into line with the European Directive of 11 May 2016 on the introduction of procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or persons prosecuted in criminal proceedings. In essence, the assistance of a lawyer should be compulsory in the event of a free hearing, covering or reconstitution, even where no such request is made by the minor or his or her parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u285	Opinion in favour of this particularly welcome transposition amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u287	Very favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u288	I call Mr Terlier to support Amendment No. 1082.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u289	This amendment, which is also very important, concerns what we have discussed with regard to the penultimate amendment tabled by Mr Bernalicis. The revocation of judicial review must be possible only in the event of serious or repeated breaches of the minor's obligations. This is essential because the revocation of judicial review results in de facto detention. In the case of a minor, we need to ensure that a runaway does not necessarily result in such dismissal and the resulting detention almost systematically.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u291	Of course it's favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u293	This is the amendment I announced earlier in reply to Mr Bernalicis. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u294	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 1054.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u295	It is a question of revising the name "closed educational centres", first because of the perception of the people living nearby – these centres are not completely closed, so this can feed unease and incomprehension – then to take into account the changes contained in the text, in particular the possibility that the judge will be offered to give these centres new functions, for example by deciding to allow a minor who would be placed there to be welcomed outside. Rémy Rebeyrotte and I therefore propose to rename them "individualized reinforced educational centres" – an expression that is much better suited to what they will become.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u297	I understand the debate on the name of the EFCs opened by two eminent colleagues. However, I am not sure that, in trying to simplify things, there is no confusion, especially because of the near homonymous nature of the strengthened educational centres. I therefore wish, if its authors agree, that the amendment be withdrawn – which does not mean that we will not discuss it again; but, in this case, I don't "smell" it, if you allow me the expression. Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u299	The amendment is obviously very interesting, because it corresponds in its spirit to what we want to develop in closed educational centres. However, the legal reality of these centres is the closure: they only welcome minors in the context of judicial review, probation or punishment, and the risk exists, as we have mentioned, of imprisonment in the event of breach of obligations. That's what justifies their designation. That is why, even if the state of mind which drives us could make us move in the direction of the amendment, the very functioning of the centres, which leads to the very strict regulation of the movement of minors, requires the preservation of the current name. I would therefore like you to withdraw your amendment, Mr. Member; Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u300	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u301	The rapporteur opens the door to a change of name; the minister closes it. So I am a little bothered: do I have to withdraw my amendment? Madam Minister, is it conceivable that we would be looking for a new name together? In that case, I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u302	It was a call: let's think about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u303	I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 1081.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u304	These are juvenile offenders between the ages of 13 and 16 who, in criminal matters, are held in pre-trial detention between the removal order, at the end of the investigation, and the trial hearing in the juvenile court. There's a hundred of them every year. Currently, it is the rules applicable to adults that are applied to them, hence a problematic period of detention for young minors – remember that in pre-trial detention is presumed innocent. The amendment therefore aims to limit the maximum duration of their detention to three months: a first period of two months, renewable once for one month.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u306	Very favourable opinion on this amendment by the LaREM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u307	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 375 and 1287. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u308	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify which institutions and services can monitor the modalities of access and accommodation exercised by parents, citing specifically the public sector and the voluntary sector, and to promote the complementarity of these two actors in accordance with the paragraph on the experimental day-care measure. With the existence of a follow-up of the arrangements for this placement, the legislator establishes in the law the need for specific educational support for the young person and his or her parents in the exercise of the right to housing at the home of the parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u309	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor to support Amendment No. 1287.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u310	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u312	It seems to me that these amendments are satisfactory: the director of the institution may himself take certain decisions which may be supplemented, modified or adapted by the magistrate. I don't think it's useful to go any further. I therefore ask their authors to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u313	I call Mrs Fajgeles to support Amendment No. 1035.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u314	It concerns minors entrusted to a third party – an individual, an educational or hospital institution, and a social assistance for children – under the 1945 Ordinance. During these periods of placement, the holders of parental authority shall retain full exercise of this right. In some cases, however, they are failing, failing to fulfil their obligations, and such cases of failure or opposition contrary to the interests of the minor may expose the minor to great difficulties, since the guardian cannot perform an unusual act without the authorization of the holders of parental authority. Our colleague Bruno Studer of Strasbourg, who is on the initiative of this amendment, cites the example of a minor who has been prevented from travelling to Germany for lack of permission from the holder of parental authority. A provision already provided for in the Civil Code should be transposed here by allowing the juvenile judge to authorize, on an ad hoc basis, the custodial service to which the minor is entrusted to perform an act under parental authority. This authorization would have significant consequences for minors deprived of parental authority or faced with the lack or opposition of its holders: the minors entrusted could have access to the same activities and care as the others, which would improve their situation in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u315	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1178.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u316	I would like to ask the Government about the experiment of the day-care educational measure with regard to minors. The results in closed educational centres seem rather promising: the longer the duration of placement, the more likely the minors are to get out of delinquency, and it is happy. For minors, alternatives to prison are a good thing. However, the experiment does not seem to me to be the most appropriate approach to the delinquency of a minor, unless he is involved in a work of general interest. Of course, it would be up to the judge to assess the advisability of such a sentence, but it would have to be considered if these children were to learn to work in a strict and rigorous framework, to be integrated into society, with the benefits and constraints involved, and to consider career guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u317	Amendment No 690 was accepted by the committee. The rapporteur has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u318	It makes it possible to renew the educational measure of day reception for young adults. This is a very interesting contribution to the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u319	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 289.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u320	With this amendment, we propose emergency measures for the protection of children in civil matters: the testing of the unconditional care of foreign unaccompanied minors – called unaccompanied minors since 2016 – by the State, the systematic intervention of a lawyer or a lawyer alongside them, and the removal of the use of bone tests. We have put the subject on the table several times, but the problem remains, which shows that the provisions adopted by the Government have had no effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u322	We are very far from the subject of the text under discussion. We had this debate at length as part of the review of the bill for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration; I don't think it's a good time to take it back. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u323	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u324	By this appeal amendment, we propose to reaffirm the already existing possibility of civil judicial protection for young adults – up to twenty-one years. Indeed, it is used by the judges, but we have received many testimonies that the departments already exsangue financially refuse to take care of the young adults and that, among them, few assert their rights in court. In the current state of law, articles 375-1 et seq. of the Civil Code do not explicitly provide that educational assistance may be provided for young adults up to the age of twenty-one years, although this is specified in article L. 112-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families and, above all, in article L. 252-2 of the Code of Judicial Organisation. The amendment seeks to clarify the situation by adding the following sentence to the first paragraph of Article 375-1 of the Civil Code: "Educational assistance may also concern young people under the age of 21 years. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u326	Since this is an appeal amendment concerning provisions already in force, the Commission issues an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u327	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u328	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u329	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u330	The provisions I mentioned are already in force, either, but I have just explained to you that, precisely, their application was not uniform in the territory and that, as a result, real equality was not ensured. By this amendment, the wording of which is quite simple, we propose to solve the problem. Nevertheless, I note that you claim that the provisions in question are satisfied in reality, while everyone knows that this is not the case – and life continues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u331	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u332	This is again an appeal amendment, which aims to ensure that children's judges' decisions on child protection are publicized, thereby raising awareness of the current inequalities in the treatment of children from one department to another. These statistics already exist and are monitored by the State services. Their publication, for example on the website of the departmental services of the State or on the website of the Ministry of Justice, would therefore be only to ensure the transparency of data already collected and processed. The idea is to ensure better State control of the execution by the departmental departments of decisions of children's judges with regard to child protection and to better combat territorial disparities. I will not go back to the disparity in the means of action of the departments – I often hear my colleagues in Seine-Saint-Denis mention this, since the department of the Nord is not the last to suffer from sub-domination and sub-administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u334	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u336	On the merits, the law requires departments to transmit their statistical data to the National Observatory for the Protection of Children. However, in its 2017 report, the latest, it is stated that only 42 departments have fulfilled this obligation. Beyond the statistics, it seems that you are asking the question of the application of the decisions of the children's judges, thus of the effectiveness of the protection accorded to children in danger. On this point, the Government and the departments are co-responsible. This is one of the areas that the national child protection strategy, currently under development, will have to take into account. I wanted to point this out because this is a serious concern, which will be expressed in this context. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u337	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u338	I am pleased that the problem is being resolved, but if we could contribute to it by enhancing transparency, that would be even better. The finances of the departments are still a concern. Of course, this is not necessarily your responsibility, Madam Minister of Justice, but we must constantly question the Government if we are to try to solve concrete problems, which in this case concern the protection of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u339	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u340	By this appeal amendment, we propose a review of the care of children in difficulty, by improving the specialized prevention, by strengthening the latter's links with the judicial protection of young people, the PJJ, and thus reaffirming the dual competence of the juvenile judge and all services, including the PJJ, to act on civil and criminal matters – as everyone knows, in line with our programme for the 2017 presidential election, The Common Future. In a constructive spirit, the aim of the experiment we are proposing is that these three services should be able to coordinate themselves in order to determine together their common local needs and to ensure that they are abounded in line with the estimates made by these actors on the ground. This will make it possible to assess the concrete results achieved, through the upgrading of resources, in the care of children in difficulty. Jean-Pierre Rosenczveig, former president of Bobigny's Children's Court, pointed out in his 2018 book Rendre justice aux enfants that all means are concentrated on young people already well enrolled in delinquency to the detriment of those who are only at the beginning. In the case of the Seine-Saint-Denis, he also notes an effect of scissors between the functions of repression and prevention in the Bobigny Children's Court. Over the past 25 years, the number of prosecutors' substitutes has increased from two to eight, when the number of youth judicial protection officers decreased from twenty to thirteen. Again, the aim is to launch an experiment aimed at obliging actors to work together, to "upload" information from the field in order to adjust the proposed means to the needs expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u341	We have finished with the article and the amendments with the additional articles called for as a matter of priority. I thank the various speakers for their contribution to the smooth running of our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u342	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u343	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u344	Mr Jean Lassalle, on Rule 33, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u345	Minister, I would like to take advantage of the examination of this very detailed text to put to you a number of questions that certainly do not arise only for me in this House. For the last ten years – but now it happens much more frequently than before – I have been receiving, in my parliamentary office, men and women, and sometimes associations, who present themselves as indignant, a little like the Spanish Indigados before they become less indignant. They are indignant at everything, especially against justice because, since they have been confronted with it, they find that their life has irreparably ended, in a way. In saying this, I think, for example, of the mothers and dads who have been deprived of access to their child – the dads are better known because they perch on top of the cranes, while the moms don't do that. Minister, I don't know what to think about it, but you need to know better than I do that there are many cases, that the number of parents who think they have been dispossessed of their child in an unbearable manner is multiplying. Some of them meet in an association to discuss. They are so indignant that they all talk at the same time, which makes things difficult. Others react individually and are often in Kafkaian situations. I wanted you to have heard about these people today, far more than it seems – I have only mentioned the parents deprived of their child, but there are many other cases – who consider that their lives were broken from the day they fell into the hands of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u346	I beg you to accept all our apologies for the little trouble of computer display that continues. The services of the Assembly, which we thank, are trying to make the necessary reparations. In the meantime, we're going to try to figure it out. Before we get to the amendments, I suggest that you take a look at the progress of our work. Since I am familiar with Parliament, because there is still a lot of noise about the organisation of our work and because during the suspension I was questioned in the corridors on this subject, I like to talk about things clearly. There are exactly 697 amendments under discussion. Even if we dream of working at the rate of 70 amendments per hour – it would be a steady but tenable rhythm if everyone on all benches played the democratic game – we would take ten hours to examine them all. I would like to point out that I shall adjourn the meeting at 20.00 p.m., that the next one will begin at 21.30 p.m., and that there is no meeting tomorrow morning. On the other hand, everyone knows the context of tomorrow's day in Paris: within the perimeter of the National Assembly, security measures will probably be taken starting at six or seven o'clock in the morning. Therefore, since the floor is of course free, I invite all of you to be concise; While going fast, everyone can express themselves without feeling blurred, the whole being really moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u347	I, Mr. President, will not ask you any more! And tomorrow, I'm going to the demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u348	[[Smile]] Thank you, my dear colleague. We have to follow Mr Lassalle's example. Our excellent colleague Hugues Renson will preside over the night session. He is also experienced, so he will know how to do it, but it really depends on everyone. Once again, it's playable: we can have finished it at four or five in the morning if everyone puts their own. Without that, I am really warning about the dangers, because it is not planned to convene the Conference of Presidents and no other sitting is open on this text until the vote on the whole, which is to take place on Tuesday. So we have no choice but to go to the end, as we did last week to review the non-attached sections of the finance bill. Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u349	I thank you for that clarification, Mr President, but I fear that it will not clarify much. You have reminded us of the number of amendments to be considered and the time left for us to do so. But then? What do you want to do? Would you like to adjourn the session at one o'clock in the morning or go beyond that? Do you mean we have to be done at an hour?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u350	I repeat what I have said very clearly: we must go to the end of the agenda, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u351	So you explain to us that we will have to go faster to examine the end of the text when it is just as important as its beginning, and that we will have to ignore it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u352	FI, it's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u353	... a real debate because of a calendar that we have not chosen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u354	Mr. Savignat, I'm a good boy...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u355	You are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u356	I am trying to be pleasant to all Members, but beyond certain limits, I am no longer able to do so. After all, let us move forward; You'll do whatever you want! I alerted the national representation. Act is given to you by your words. We now come to the amendments to Article 33. Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u357	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u358	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 1345. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u359	Article 33 provides for the possibility of displacing an inquiry before the nearest court through the nearest court of appeal when a person in contact with the judges or officials of the Court of Appeal is involved. The aim is to prevent any suspicion of corruption or favouritism. If this system already exists for the first instance, it must be extended to the level of appeal. It is quite possible that the perpetrator or victim of the offence prosecuted has no relationship with a magistrate or an official of the court of first instance, but that he or she goes differently with the persons working in the court of appeal whose case is before him or her. In order to avoid any risk of arbitrariness, the amendment provides that recourse to this provision may only be made by means of a written and reasoned decision in the light of the requirement of impartiality and the proper administration of justice. This point is made all the more necessary by the extension of the mechanism provided for in the bill. Indeed, if, under the rule of law, transmissions are made by the Attorney General between two prosecutors under his jurisdiction, over whom he exercises authority and between whom he is in a position to issue an arbitration, the new provision provides for transmission between equal and independent authorities, without the possibility of arbitration, thus without a formalised solution in the event of disagreement. The absence of criteria and reasons for the transmission is thus such as to create difficulties in the practical application of this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u360	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 390. Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u361	This bill proposes to make the management of seals more efficient, including through the dematerialization set out in the digital transformation plan. However, in the light of their physical nature, in particular, certain elements intended to be sealed cannot be dematerialised. A practice such as the use of wax to seal seals can no longer persist. The police officers tell us that, since wax stamps are long to use and fragile, it is not excluded that some break during the transport of seals, which casts doubt on the criminal integrity of the objects concerned. They add that this practice has become obsolete given the latest techniques to preserve the inviolability of seals. In March 2013, a memo from the Directorate-General of the National Police on the modernization of the preparation of judicial seals prompted the police to use the last wax reserves before moving to the modern era of stickers. With this amendment, I propose that a decree should set out the concrete material conditions for sealing, in particular the sealing of objects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u363	I let the minister set out the framework for sealing. The committee did not follow your request. I have an unfavorable opinion, unless you agree to withdraw the amendment in order to do better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u365	Mr Houbron, it does not seem to me that a decree is necessary to change practices, in particular by replacing wax stamps with more modern techniques. Practices are evolving on their own in this direction; We don't need to make a decree for that. As I am not in favour of over-regulation, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u366	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u367	Things are moving in the right direction: that's the main thing. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u368	I'll take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u369	The amendment was accepted by Mr Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u370	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u371	I shall return for a moment to the previous amendment, and you will excuse me, Mr President! The inquiry of our colleague Dimitri Houbron was very relevant. I've heard a lot about wax pills. It is true that techniques are evolving, but there are still resistances, which sometimes do not come from the police. I say this very sincerely: we should go further on this point. Amendment No 215 seeks to adopt an adjustment measure to preserve the quality of the tasks currently carried out directly by the JPOs. You can see the slope you are taking: more and more, the measures will no longer be taken by the JPOs but under their control. This general formula means that the JPO is not necessarily present at the time the measure is taken, but that it will be able to validate it later, at another time, further. It seems to us important to maintain the direct intervention of the OPJ, which represents a guarantee in the exercise of the functions of the judicial authority. This responsibility should not be based on other people, who have not received the necessary training, who therefore do not have adequate qualifications, and whose role is simply not. I am opposed to this development and propose that you clarify this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u373	This amendment is intended to remove provisions of Article 33 which are of common sense, since they will enable judicial police officers to focus on their core business. The Commission therefore maintains its unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u374	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u375	Negative opinion also: the amendment tends to remove simplification measures which do not in any way affect the quality of the procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u376	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u377	Wait a minute! The core business of the judicial police officers is precisely to carry out the verification of these kinds of acts! What else are the JPOs for? If the legislator has decided, at some point, to entrust them with certain tasks, it is because it represents a guarantee. Under the guise of pragmatism, common sense, you are only reducing these guarantees. No, it's not just a matter of common sense; It is also a question of legal guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u378	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 33. On the forthcoming amendment No 231, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 153 and 1346. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u379	The purpose is to facilitate access by the parties and their counsel to the file, allowing them to obtain a copy of the proceedings and to make representations at the end of the investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u380	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1346.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u381	Here we take up a proposal from the Paris Bar Association. The aim is to reinforce the adversarial nature of the preliminary investigation by improving access to the file during police custody, both for the detainee and for the lawyer. This amendment seeks first of all to strengthen the rights of the defence in the preliminary investigation by imposing on the prosecution service the obligation to systematically send a notice to all the respondents, prior to bringing proceedings, of the possibility to consult the proceedings and to make requests or observations before a final decision is taken by the public prosecutor. This amendment is also intended to enable the lawyer, in order to carry out his duties effectively, to have access to the file of the proceedings from the moment of his client's custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u382	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u383	The law of 3 June 2016 has already instituted a compulsory debate from one year and optional, on request, from six months. I believe that we do not yet have a sufficient step backwards to consider making this change. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u384	These amendments, however, are very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u385	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u386	It aims to establish an adversarial procedure for the closure of the investigation between the public prosecutor and the parties, since this phase lacks formalism. The French procedure, traditionally inquisitorial, separates the investigative phase, devoted to the search for evidence, and the judicial phase, which begins with the referral of an investigating judge or a court. This second phase opens up human rights pursued by the application of the adversarial principle. However, as noted in the Beaume report in 2014, the possible need for a pre-trial investigation of criminal cases is now required in our society, both in terms of the rights of the persons in question and for possible victims. That is why the amendment seeks to establish an adversarial phase of the closure of the investigation, respecting a balance between, on the one hand, the principle of real-time criminal orientation at the end of the investigation and, on the other hand, a better qualitative preparation of the legality, regularity and content of the investigation, so as to bring before the trial judge a criminal procedure purged of his flaws, of his inadequacies. This would help to refocus the judicial debate on the guilt, sentence and compensation of the victim.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u387	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u388	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u389	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u390	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u391	I put to the vote Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u392	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 7 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u393	Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u394	This amendment seeks to harmonize provisions on special seizures, specifying that the judge of freedoms and detention orders the seizure directly. In the current state of the legislation, it merely authorizes it, which leads some prosecutors to draft an additional act to proceed with the seizure. It is therefore a simplification measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u395	Amendment No 563 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u396	Mr Dimitri Houbron, on Rule 34, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u397	In order not to slow down the debate, I am abstaining from speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u398	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 232 and 1348, to delete the article. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 232, which deletes Rule 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u399	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u400	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 1348.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u401	As the rights defender pointed out in his Opinion No. 18-22, the provisions of this text aimed at extending the coercive powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office are not accompanied by a change in his status which would give guarantees in terms of impartiality and independence. The gradual transfer of investigative powers from the investigating judge to the public prosecutor is part of a substantive movement. Therefore, the bill does not make the investigation fully subject to the effective control of a judge within the meaning of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In our view, this poses serious difficulties under European law. Indeed, the judge of freedoms and detention does not have the concrete means necessary to carry out his or her mission; Given its workload and the time constraints imposed on it, its intervention is most often limited. Paragraphs 5 to 10 of the article considerably tighten the conditions for filing a civil suit in correctional cases, and pose new obstacles to the opening of judicial information. As pointed out by the Paris Bar, the additional conditions imposed on the victim by article 34 and the introduction of an expediency assessment on the opening of judicial information, including where the preliminary investigation has established sufficient charges, call into question the access of victims to the criminal court. Even in the event that the complainant overcomes procedural obstacles, the investigating judge would retain the possibility, upon request of the prosecution, of refusing to investigate, on the ground that the facts could have made – according to his assessment and without any criteria being defined by law – the subject of a direct summons to the court of judgment. We propose, by this amendment, to delete these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u402	What is the committee's opinion on these two deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u403	I will give some explanations, as I always do on the amendments to delete an article. With regard to the civil action complaint, the Government and the commission wanted the prosecutor to be able to take longer than he currently could: the time limit would be increased from three to six months. This will allow the investigating judge to have at the outset the basic elements necessary to better characterize the facts. For this to happen, a minimum of investigations must have been carried out in good conditions. It is for this reason, primarily, that we wish to maintain the article. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u405	It's also unfavorable. The provisions of the article are really the result of requests that have been raised in the courts. They are of two kinds: on the one hand, to generalize the airlock between the investigation and the investigation in order to continue the investigations without interruption; On the other hand, as the rapporteur has pointed out, regulating the constitutions of civil parties by extending from three to six months the time limit for bringing a civil action and allowing the investigating judge to refuse to inform when all the investigations necessary for the demonstration of the truth have been carried out. This will help to avoid unnecessary information and thus ensure that referrals to the investigating judge will be useful and will only intervene in the necessary cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u406	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 331.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u407	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u408	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u409	Article 34 II and Article 34 III impose two additional obstacles on the litigants in order to be able to lodge a complaint with a civil party: the period which must have elapsed since the lodging of a complaint before the magistrate will be increased from three to six months – I have heard your explanations on this point – and the investigating judge may refuse a complaint with a civil party when a direct summons is possible. These additional conditions imposed on victims call into question the guarantee of access to the criminal court. Minister, direct quotation is not such an easy procedure. Put yourself in the position of a victim to whom it is explained that the investigating judge must limit himself to "useful" referrals, to use the word you used. It must be complicated for a victim to hear an investigating judge tell him that his complaint is not helpful. Second, direct quotation is an unobvious, sometimes complicated procedure. Since yesterday, in this Chamber, you have been talking about simplification. However, I do not feel that this provision simplifies the system. While this may give the investigating judge less work, it may make his daily life easier, but the procedure is not simplified for the victim. Hence my request to delete paragraphs 5 to 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u410	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u411	Much of the response has already been received: the opinion is still unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u412	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u413	It's also unfavorable. I would just like to point out to Mrs Meunier, who knows this very well, that our provision allows the investigating judge to refuse the opening of information which she considers unnecessary, but that this is already the case today in 67% of the cases. It seems to me that there is an improvement and simplification of the procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u414	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u415	We have already had this debate in committee. This is not a step forward for the victims. On the contrary, things are systematically complicated for them, and they are given extremely long deadlines when they are waiting for a solution. As my excellent colleague Meunier said at the moment, direct summons is not a civil suit, because it implies that the case is closed, that all the evidence is available and that we can go directly to the court. The purpose is not the same. We therefore regret, as we did in committee, that the victims were finally left out. So yes, it is true, it takes time, everything is more complicated, the investigations are longer, but, again, it is unfortunate that the victims are barred from justice by this type of provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u416	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1244, 470 and 637, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 470 and 637 are identical. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 1244.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u417	I do not know whether I have missed the rapporteur's explanation of the reasons for raising the time limit from six months to three months with regard to the complaint with the lodging of a civil action after the initial filing of a complaint and for its admissibility before the investigating judge, but some arguments have not been raised. I would therefore like to do so by raising three points. First, the extension of the deadline is contrary to the Government's objectives, particularly with regard to sexual assaults, as it unnecessarily delays the initiation of public action, which constitutes a significant obstacle for victims. Moreover, in addition to the fact that this prolongation prejudices the rights of the victim, there is a risk that the evidence may be lost, particularly in the area I have just mentioned. Finally, in some cases, the civil action complaint is the only way to overcome the inertia of the prosecutor's office, which does not offer exactly the same guarantees of independence as the investigating judge in sensitive cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u418	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u419	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u420	I will speak very quickly because I have already defended this amendment in committee, to say that I fully agree with the comments made by my colleague Vichnevsky, who still knows what she is talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u421	That's right! Great skill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u422	The six-month extension really runs counter to the principles of efficiency and speed. It delays public action, and the victim's rights are affected. Delaying access to the judge is not at all in the sense of efficiency and responsiveness that you want to breathe with this text. The concern should be to end the dispute as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u423	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 637.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u424	Legally extending the response time granted to magistrates is detrimental to the interests of litigants, including victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u425	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u426	It is not unnecessary to go back to this important provision, as Mrs Vichnievsky pointed out. The essential thing is that the effectiveness of criminal prosecution is properly implemented. It is not certain that a period of three months is sufficient as such. Having been the dean of the investigating judges, I know that the magistrate can be brought before him very quickly, but still it must be on a consistent, correct basis, which has been the subject of a minimum of characterization. However, a period of three months is often too short to ensure that the work of the public prosecutor's office is effective. It seems to us quite logical to increase to six months, this time limit still allowing access to the judge in the event that the prosecutor's office did not prosecute. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, during the hearings we conducted to prepare this law, the vast majority of victims' associations considered that the deadline was not excessive and even admitted that it was appropriate for the dossiers to be better prepared. I would add, in conclusion, that the Senate – and we have followed it on this point – has removed the additional time limit for recourse to the Attorney-General's Office, which, for that matter, seemed excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u427	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u428	We have extended this time limit from three to six months in order to adapt it to the length of time which, in practice, appears necessary to carry out the investigations during the investigation. Our idea is absolutely not to prevent the parties from exercising their rights. On the contrary, it seems to us highly desirable, in the interests of all parties, to allow time for the investigations carried out by the prosecutor's office to be completed, before allowing the opening of judicial information on the constitution of a civil party. Indeed, as I pointed out earlier, in 67% of cases, judicial information of this type ends with a dismissal order. It is therefore really not to prevent the parties from exercising their rights; On the contrary, it is, in a way, to be more effective. Mrs Vichnievsky, I hear your arguments perfectly, especially with regard to the particular situations that you have mentioned. Investigation time is not wasted: when the complainant refers the case to the investigating judge after the filing of the case without further action or after six months if the preliminary investigation has not been completed, the investigating judge, who will have to inform him of the facts alleged in the civil suit, will be able to rely on an already well-substantiated investigation, thus preventing him from wasting time restarting the checks thanks to the prior work that has been done by the prosecutor's office. You feared, Madam Member, the consequences for sexual assaults, evoking a risk of contradiction. I do not believe that there is any contradiction because the prosecutor's office will begin an investigation which will then allow him to request the opening of an investigation: in any event, the investigation proceedings will be used for the investigation. I also do not believe in the risk of a loss of evidence, since the prosecutor's office, in the course of the investigation, will, of course, take the necessary steps to preserve the evidence. Finally, you mentioned the statutory independence of the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. On this subject, you know that we will submit proposals to you in a constitutional revision which we hope will soon be successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u429	It's not good enough...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u430	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u431	I can hear the rapporteur and the seal keeper, but I confess that I am not completely convinced. The arguments of our colleague Vichnievsky, a great professional and a great lawyer, who knows in practice what is happening, are rather convincing. There is a significant risk – even if I do not claim it is absolute – of delaying public action. We must be able to act in the interests of the victims. We will therefore vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u432	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 471.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u433	It is defended – we have already examined it in the Committee on Laws and I doubt that the answer is different...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u434	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u435	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u436	On Amendment No 564, on the additional article to Rule 34, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 564.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u437	This amendment, based on the elements transmitted by the non-profit organization Sherpa – some may be aware of it – extends the scope of admissibility of civil associative action, which is part of the general interest. The proposed solution ensures a homogeneity and greater readability of the conditions of admissibility, while maintaining a balance with regard to the inflation of referrals: the stability of associations by the condition of seniority of at least five years; simplicity by avoiding the complexity of direct harm to the benefit of the social object of the association. For the La France group, the legitimate action of these associations is no longer to be demonstrated, particularly in the fields of environmental protection, consumer protection or financial crime, a subject that I am particularly interested in. These associations ensure a democratic, healthy and necessary vigilance role in contemporary society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u438	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u439	You are proposing nothing less than to give any association, whatever the conditions and whatever the field of intervention, the possibility of intervening by replacing the prosecutor's office, which seems to me to be extremely dangerous. Currently, the Code of Criminal Procedure lays down extremely precise rules in certain areas, such as discrimination, gender-based violence and others: it is very contingent. This would create a risk, for example, if associations considering the fight against demonstrations on the public road wanted to replace the prosecutor's office. However, I do not believe that this is the fundamental objective. The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u440	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u441	Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u442	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u443	This applies to associations that have been regularly registered for at least five years, which is a condition of seniority. They would be allowed to exercise the rights already granted to the civil party in respect of offences already provided for in the Criminal Code and directly affecting the interests they defend, in accordance with their statutory purpose. It is therefore not a question of creating new offences, new offences, but of being able to act within the framework of the general interest. When you listened to the summary, you saw what was targeted and targeted. In many situations, associations have had to fight for years to open a trial. They are thus in their role as a whistleblower, as a citizen and as a collective vigilante. They have a role to play in this, and they need to be helped.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u444	I put to the vote Amendment No. 564.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u445	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 38 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 3 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u446	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, on Rule 35, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u447	I do not give up this little speaking time. Article 35 provides, inter alia, for the possibility of using video conferencing without the consent of the accused during the hearings for the extension of pre-trial detention. Madam Minister, you have repeatedly stated that this text does not address ideological considerations, that it is concrete reforms aimed at improving the functioning of justice. As a professional in this sector for a long time, the technical arguments speak to me when they are at the service of such an objective. However, when choices are made, policy is made, and the MODEM Group's vision of justice does not accommodate the use of video conferencing without the agreement of the main interested party, the respondent. Indeed, we are particularly committed to what makes judicial justice specific: direct, individualized and physical access of the accused to his or her judge. However, video conferencing clearly does not meet these requirements. Of course, in a recent decision, the Constitutional Council considered that the use of this technique could be justified by considerations of the proper administration of justice or the proper use of public funds, but, Madam Minister, you know better than I do that what is not unconstitutional is not necessarily desirable. For MODEM, the principle I have just recalled on access to the judge must take precedence over any consideration of a budgetary nature. We have already supported this position before the Minister of the Interior when examining the asylum and immigration law, but we have not been heard. We reiterate this position: the justice by camera interposed without the consent of the person prosecuted is a step that MODEM does not want to take.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u448	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u449	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u450	We propose the deletion of paragraphs 2 to 13 of article 35, which seem to us to contain problematic provisions, in particular concerning the scope of the use of electronic bracelets, which must remain an exceptional measure and in no case be trivialized, as proposed by this article. This article is a veritable potpourri of measures of different kinds, some of which are particularly problematic: the facilitation of the use of ARSE – i.e. the house arrest under electronic supervision, so that it is clear to everyone –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u451	That's very nice of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u452	... by making adversarial debate optional before a magistrate, which can create a lot of problems; the lengthening of the possible duration of the ARSE without the need to order an extension every six months, whereas, from such a time, this measure becomes really problematic and the bracelet anxiogenic; the extension of the possibility of using video conferencing. The intermediate solution proposed by La République en Marche after the adoption of the Senate amendments is still problematic. If the choice to use video conferencing is a matter for the judicial authority, it must be prohibited if the person refuses to do so for the contradictory discussions concerning the initial detention in pre-trial detention. There are other substantive points of concern, such as the opening of the seals, which is the subject of another amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u453	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u454	If I am not mistaken, your amendment seeks to remove the simplification measures relating to seals, on the one hand, and electronic surveillance, on the other. In the case of seals, the basic precautions are taken as they must be opened in the presence of the lawyer. With regard to electronic surveillance, we would like it to be simplified and genuinely avoid incarceration – on this point we could agree. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u455	On Amendment No 569, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 569.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u456	In particular, we propose the deletion of paragraph 2, which is intended to reduce the rights of the defence when a seal is opened, which can now be done without the presence of the accused and the lawyer. The rule of law requires the presence of the accused, assisted by his or her lawyer. The importance of the dispute over the regularity of the seals must alert the Government to the need to maintain the guarantee of the presence of the persons concerned and their counsel. This presence is the only way to rule out the doubts of the defendants as to the identity and integrity of the seals. I know that this is a very bad wish, but I would like to stop rebuffing this verbiage of simplification when it is mostly a question of reducing the rights of the defence. If we stopped using words that had nothing to do with what they meant, the discussion would be much better. Otherwise, once again, we'll end up in a very good book by George Orwell, which I don't want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u457	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u458	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u459	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u460	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u461	I put to the vote Amendment No 569.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u462	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 6 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u463	I have before me three amendments, No 677, 16 corrected and 17 corrected, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendment No 677 is being defended. Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor to support Amendment No. 16, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u464	The legislator must make every effort to ensure a child-friendly defence. Thus the specially trained child advocate must be put in a position to carry out his or her mission of accompaniment and defence of the interests of his or her young client. Consequently, a procedure adapted to the child is not derogating from the ordinary law, and full copies of the documents and documents of the file can be given to the child as soon as the civil action is lodged so that he can know the situation of the minor in question and adapt to his personality as soon as possible. This is a special procedural guarantee which adapts the rules applicable to adults to the rights of minors. The difficulty, in this case, is that the documents in the file are not available, except at the time of the summons, that is, only a few days sometimes before the examination of the file. The idea would be to adapt the adult procedure to that of children and to allow access to the file from the start of the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u465	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor to support Amendment No. 17, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u466	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u467	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1392.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u468	The provisions that we are requesting to be deleted – in paragraphs 3 and 14 to 27 – are intended to extend the possibility of using video conferencing. We have already had this debate during the asylum and immigration law: we said that after reducing the rights of foreigners, we would soon reduce those of all. This is the path we take.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u469	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u470	We believe that orality and attendance at the hearing are extremely important to be able to judge but also to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u471	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u472	Video conferencing is an important topic. We are on a peak line between the initial position of the Government of the absolute extension of the use of videoconferencing and that of the Senate, which wished to reduce it. A balance has been struck to ensure that it is possible, even without the consent of the person, except for remand in custody. Subsequently, the hearings followed, and the case was known to the magistrates and court officials. It therefore seems to us that this position of balance is fully respectful of the rights of the parties, in particular the persons under investigation. That is why we wish to maintain it and postpone your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u473	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u474	These provisions do seem to me to be both justified and balanced. They are justified for geographical reasons – I have already mentioned here the case of Guyana, where video conferencing takes place very naturally because it is impossible to do otherwise – or practical. You noted them, Mrs Faucillon, and you were, of course, right: in some cases, we find it difficult to carry out judicial extractions. We are, however, on a peak line, between the concern for efficiency and the preservation of guarantees. These, I believe, will be preserved. Video conferencing can only be used without the consent of the person concerned to extend pre-trial detention and not for pre-trial detention. We have therefore moved towards a balanced and satisfactory text. You are right, Mrs Vichnievsky: a decision that concerns justice, even if it is pragmatic, is a political decision, and I claim it as such. In this case, the political nature of the decision lies in its balance, although I understand that you do not agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u475	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 743.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u476	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u477	Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u478	The purpose of this amendment is to encourage the use of ARSE, a house arrest under electronic supervision, in order to limit the use of pre-trial detention. First, it removes the condition of the accused person's prior consent, which we believe is not justified, from this measure aimed at avoiding pre-trial detention. It states, however, that the device incorporating a transmitter to be installed on its person cannot be installed without its consent. The rule laid down is thus exactly similar to what is provided for in the Criminal Code for the order for care in the framework of a socio-judicial follow-up: it may be pronounced without the consent of the person but it cannot be implemented without his consent. Second, it allows for a more systematic examination of the feasibility of an electronic house arrest at the time of the extension of pre-trial detention. When the sentence is less than or equal to five years, the judge will be required to request a feasibility investigation. If the investigation was not completed prior to the extension of pre-trial detention, it will have to be carried out during the appeal review of the merits of the renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u479	On the forthcoming amendment No 459 and the identical amendment, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 1179?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u480	Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u481	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u482	That's an important point. The minister finds it curious that we are asking for the consent of the person concerned, but it is not so much. House arrest under electronic surveillance, via the electronic bracelet, is not a completely neutral measure, not only for the individual who is subjected to it but also for his or her entourage. The electronic bracelet, in a way, forces relatives, the family, all those who live under the same roof and will therefore live a form of detention at home – that's how you have renamed a part of the device. I beg you to believe that, for the entourage, it is not obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u483	I didn't say it was.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u484	That's why some people prefer prison. However, I do not want us to be locked in this debate. It's not just the alternative between the prison and the bracelet. Other restraint measures exist in the present register, such as judicial review. What do we do with it? Flattening the device requires to flatten all measurements, not just the bracelet. I am therefore opposed to this amendment because I do not want the individual to be deprived of his or her consent to a measure that actually goes beyond his or her person. And you know I'm right, I'm sure of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u485	The rapporteur, Mr Didier Paris, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1538.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u486	It aims to enable scientific police and gendarmerie services to be appointed as experts. There is no doubt about the exceptional value of their work, recognised by all judicial actors, but they do not benefit from legal personality. This amendment will therefore allow them to make requisitions or to entrust them with expertise. I would point out that the natural person who will take care of it will obviously have to be approved by the judge concerned in order to avoid any risk of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u487	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 459 and 1245. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 459.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u488	I'll be quick, don't be afraid! We ask that the consent of the person in question be required for the use of video conferencing. Our colleague Faucillon and other speakers have raised the issue of orality. We are currently facing a real problem of trust in the judiciary, Minister. Prohibiting someone from talking directly with a magistrate will help to keep the French out of it even further. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the principle of the possibility for a magistrate or a litigant to be able to exchange directly, in all circumstances – I heard what was said earlier – without going through video conferencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u489	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 1245.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u490	Forgive me for insisting, minister, but we have a political disagreement on this article. Therefore, for the benefit of my colleagues, I would like to add some elements in favour of this amendment. I remind them that the appearance in person of the accused before his judge falls within the essence of habeas corpus. This rule dates back to the 17th century: it required English jailers to bring the prisoner to the judge, "body present", for a ruling on his fate. I am not going to quote the Latin formula, which would be pedantic, but I would point out that England has maintained this rule, as video conferencing is only allowed for the hearing of witnesses who are abroad. The U.S. federal rules on criminal procedure, on the other hand, prescribe the physical presence of the accused at each stage. The Federal Court of Justice of Karlsruhe, considering that video conferencing is likely to distort the conviction of the judge and destabilize the persons heard, makes the use of this technique subject to the consent of the person concerned; I think we need to hear his motivation. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I hear practical considerations about overseas and other situations, of course, but this remedy must remain quite exceptional. I believe that only budgetary considerations could support the mandatory nature of videoconferencing. Nevertheless, as we said earlier, the door has been opened and we do not want it to be even more open. Despite the legitimate concern to preserve public funds, I would point out that our country is one of the least well-placed in Europe in terms of spending on justice and I cannot resolve to the downgrading of France compared to the major democracies in terms of freedoms and rights of defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u491	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u492	I fully hear and respect the arguments of our colleague Vichnievsky. It refers in particular to foreign countries, but in France video conferencing is not new. With this text, we propose only a slight extension. I repeat that this is in line with the balance which has been found and which, in many circumstances, will help to avoid displacement and material problems, particularly where the police and gendarmerie services are no longer focused on their basic profession. In view of all the protections we have provided, the rights of the defence will in no way be reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u493	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u494	Our own habeas corpus, Mrs Vichnievsky, is the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights! However, the European Court of Human Rights considers that "videoconferencing is not, in itself, incompatible with the notion of a fair trial" but requires an inconclusive check on the proportionality and necessity of the measure, and it also checks that the defendant has been able to follow and be heard without hindrance, that he has been able to speak with his lawyer in an effective and confidential manner. It seems to me that these conditions, in the cases where we anticipate such use, are met. I remind you – but you know – that we exclude video conferencing for detention. With all these conditions in place, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u495	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u496	I will not engage my group on this point. As far as I am concerned, I am very sensitive to the respect for the rights of defence, which I do not say are systematically violated, as this would obviously be excessive. I am one of those who, in a previous legislature, wanted video conferencing to be developed, particularly on the basis of the ultramarine examples we have mentioned. I had then taken the well-known example of Guyana. On some river arms, on the border of Brazil, it is obviously preferable to have videoconferencing, provided that electricity allows for its use because a generator is needed. Anyway, it's not easy, especially two days of canoeing! So there are exceptions and some logic. However, here you propose a way of generalization that bothers me. Progress does not raise a problem in itself, but this generalization implies a form of distance from the judge, a form of dehumanization of justice and also of imbalance in relations. The approach to situations differs between video conferencing and concrete reality, as we have all been able to experience, even if it is not necessarily within a judicial framework. We have probably all used video conferencing – in any case, I do – and it is not at all the same thing: we have to position ourselves well in the face, sometimes technical problems arise, we lack feeling, an approach allowing us to form an opinion. Video conferencing is not limited to the mere transmission of a message and an image. Other factors may help inform judgment, an approach. That is why I support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u497	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u498	I have the feeling that your philosophy is the same as you are using in the face of yellow vests: as with ecological taxation, which actually aims to fill the state's coffers on the pretext of ecological transition, you are selling us a simplification, a modernisation of justice. But you can put on your proposals of I don't know what a nice coat, they will still remain of the cache-misere. In fact, you handle the shortage. You refuse the essential, that is to say, the increase of the budget of justice to a level that is not derisory, unlike what you propose to catch up with France's delay. The means available to our justice are derisory in relation to countries of the same level as ours. Tomorrow, you will explain the same to us for health by saying that video conferencing is so modern! Admit you're handling the shortage! It'll be less hypocritical! Say that you don't have the means, that you don't want to put it on and that you prefer to spend the money elsewhere, hence all of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u499	You prefer taxation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u500	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Be kind and polite! Let the others talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u501	Taxation is not a big word!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u502	Ladies and gentlemen, listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u503	He loves me very much; Every time I talk, he's pissed off!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u504	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u505	Do not come to explain that this is a matter of modernity, whereas in fact it is a question of regression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u506	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u507	Mrs. Le Pen is partially wrong. The budget of justice is increasing, but it is to satisfy some of its own wishes: to build prison places, which bothers me – but we will discuss it, I hope, a little later. It's the Black Friday! We're saving money! It's today, let's go! We have to save money, but not on prisons, we understand that! It is therefore necessary to seek at all costs to keep the defendant away from the judge, in this case via video conferencing. I agree with what was said earlier: you start by revising the law that applies to foreigners, then you generalize the measures. For example, with regard to special investigative techniques, terrorism and organized crime were first introduced and eventually extended to all. The logic is always the same: to go faster, to save money, and all this ends up weakening the guarantees of the justiciable. Yes, I believe in some form of appearance theory. I believe in the physical incarnation of justice. I want proof of that from a friend who, two weeks ago, had the opportunity and the chance to be sworn. He told me that the presence of the accused behind a glass box changed everything, that he felt that the individual was somehow more guilty than the one who was not there. I specify that this friend does not read my press releases on glass boxes, that he does not campaign in La France insoumise – you should know him! This proves that appearances, the way things are embodied, alter the perception of each other. I am therefore against this extravagant extension of video conferencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u508	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u509	Laurence Vichnievsky has explained perfectly why we are, as a matter of principle, opposed to this article. It is written in the text that a means of audiovisual telecommunication cannot be used if the person refuses to do so, "unless its transport seems to have to be avoided due to serious risks of disturbance to public order or escape". I can understand that, but what are we talking about here? Persons in pre-trial detention, i.e. in prison. The judge, on the other hand, is not in prison, but I have a proposal to submit to you: to the extent that the person is already in detention, let alone obviously passing sentences in prisons, why could the judge not go to prison? I know this can shock. I've already made this proposal and I've been told that a judge in prison would be even worse. I don't think so. Prisons already have rooms to accommodate disciplinary commissions, which try prisoners who have contravened the regulations. I repeat: why not imagine the judge going to prison?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u510	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u511	We are never very comfortable discussing video conferencing, and it is true that we will never be able to replace the presence of the parties and the judge in a closed place. However, for practical and efficient reasons – this tool has proved its worth – video conferencing is becoming increasingly used and useful. During the review of the asylum and immigration law, I had been in favour of developments in this area, while expressing a number of preventive measures. I may have some comments on some aspects of this text, but in my view this provision does not present great difficulties. Indeed, what is being discussed is the adversarial debate to decide whether or not the warrant for the detention of a person in custody should be renewed. What seemed essential to me was that the first debate, the one that decided on remand, should take place in the presence of the parties. However, we have excluded the use of videoconferencing for this first adversarial debate, which is decisive. When it comes, then, to renewing the committal mandate, the presence of the parties seems less necessary, and video conferencing is much more efficient. In fact, it is a very technical debate that takes place, in order to determine whether the person must remain in pre-trial detention or leave to be placed under judicial supervision. This debate concerns the guarantees of representation that the person can present through his or her lawyer. In 99% of cases, counsel submits a file that contains documented documents to determine whether or not there are guarantees of representation – a rent release, a promise of employment, a promise of accommodation, for example. These documents may be analysed by the judge without the need for a hearing and for information other than that contained in the documents and in the statement drawn up by the lawyer. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] A videoconference, when it comes only to renewing a warrant of committal, does not endanger the rights of the defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u512	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 459 and 1245.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u513	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 43 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 10 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u514	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 503.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u515	The objective of Article 35 is to broaden the possibilities for the use of video conferencing during the course of the investigation. Currently, the person in question may require that he or she appear in person for a hearing at which a decision is to be taken on his or her pre-trial detention or extension, and he or she may be compelled to do so only in the event of a serious risk of escape or disturbance to public order. This amendment proposes to remove this possibility of refusing videoconferencing, as provided for in the Government Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u516	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u517	It is unfavorable, for reasons of balance, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u518	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u519	It's obvious: same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u520	On the forthcoming amendment No 472, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Fajgeles to support Amendment No. 1079.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u521	It is intended to prohibit the use of video conferencing for the detention or extension of the detention of a minor. Although I can fully share the objective of extending the use of videoconferencing, as I had already done in the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Act, it seems to me absolutely necessary that the use of telecommunications in criminal proceedings should not be assessed in the same way, in the case of adults and minors. The special situation of minors and their immaturity, which does not always allow them to understand the stakes of a debate when they are physically far from their interlocutor, should be taken into account. The presence of a camera and screen does not favour their concentration and deprives them of the solemnity appropriate to the circumstances. This also justifies that the minor should be physically surrounded, for this crucial phase, by his legal representatives and his lawyer. It is therefore essential, unless there is an exceptional risk of disturbance to public order or escape, that the minor appear physically. With this amendment, far from generalizing video conferencing, we introduce a subtlety in this Article 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u522	Mr David Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 472.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u523	It is simply intended to require the information of the lawyer. You recalled earlier, Madam Minister, in reply to Mrs Vichnievsky, that you were anxious to comply with European requirements, which is quite normal, and that the information of the defence lawyer was precisely a European requirement. With this amendment, we propose that you include it in the law. It should therefore easily be adopted by all members of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u524	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u525	This amendment seems all the more acceptable to me as it is actually satisfied. We had a long debate with Mrs Untermaier in committee. The presence of the lawyer is of right for video conferencing: he can perfectly discuss with his client whether or not to accept video conferencing under the conditions that the law has already laid down; it is automatically informed of the possibility of this normal mode of hearing. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u526	As a public vote has been announced in the National Assembly, I doubt that the amendment will be withdrawn... What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u527	Same opinion as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u528	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u529	I'll be very quick. I was pointed out that video conferencing poses a small problem for the lawyer: where should he go? on the part of the magistrate or his client? It's not obvious to be on both sides at once!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u530	You know how to do it with holograms!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u531	[[Laughs]] Since we cannot yet vote by holograms, I invite each and every one of you to join its place! I put to the vote Amendment No. 472.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u532	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 8 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u533	Mr Didier Paris has the floor to support Amendment No. 1479.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u534	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u535	On the identical amendments Nos 570 and 220, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 570.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u536	It aims to strengthen the rights of the defence by ensuring access to the file by the parties involved or their lawyers. For our group, full access to the file from the stage of police custody or free hearing must be devoted. This right can be inferred from Article 7 of Directive 2012/13/EU on the right to information in criminal proceedings in that it requires communication "when a person is arrested and detained at any stage of criminal proceedings". The aim is to ensure access to documents that challenge the legality of the arrest, such as the report of the arrest and any evidence establishing the existence of serious or concordant evidence, but also, at a minimum, to all material evidence against the accused or accused persons, which is held by the competent authorities. Contrary to what the rapporteur has told us during the examination of the text in committee, European law clearly states that this right is granted "in time" to enable the effective exercise of the rights of the defence and, at the latest, when a court is called upon to rule on the merits of the charge. Therefore, for our group, this concept must be clearly defined in order to strike a balance between the need for fair justice and the need for effective investigations. This "useful time" is indeed that of the first hearing as a suspect, under the regime of police custody or free hearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u537	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u538	We have indeed debated the matter a lot in committee. Today, the lawyer can assist his client in custody, since these are confrontation hearings – I am not going into the details of the proceedings. Under these conditions, he already has access to the minutes concerning his client's hearings and to medical certificates. This situation seems to us to be entirely appropriate to the circumstances and does not seem to us to have to be changed. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u539	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u540	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u541	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u542	In fact, if the Code of Criminal Procedure does not prohibit it, it does not expressly provide for it either. We propose, with this amendment, to fill this gap in order to agree with everyone, once and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u543	I put to the vote Amendment No. 570.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u544	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 6 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u545	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u546	We propose to reform pre-trial detention in a way that we have already mentioned at the beginning of the discussion of the text. If we want to reduce the prison population, if the majority wants to achieve the objectives it has set itself to reduce the prison population in order to achieve individual confinement, it is not by building 7,000 prison places or even 15,000 that it will achieve this. A reform of pre-trial detention will have to be undertaken, since some 20,000 people are now in this situation. It's not about putting everyone out, but some of the inmates could benefit from other measures, and I'm not just talking about house arrest or electronic surveillance. We therefore propose that article 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure be supplemented by a paragraph which reads as follows: "The judicial authority issuing pre-trial detention must expressly state the reasons for its decision in the light of any other measure which may be carried out in a free environment. The logic should be reversed by considering all measures that can be taken in a free environment before pre-trial detention is considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u547	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u548	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u549	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u550	The same opinion, as this amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u551	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u552	I am sorry, but that is not true: the amendment is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u553	Satisfied, you never are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u554	The future will tell us, rigorously, but I very much fear that this is not the case. I have the firm conviction and I would prefer you to retain the wording we are proposing to make sure that we can reduce pretrial detention. For a magistrate, pre-trial detention is a bit belted and strapped: for fear of recidivism and in the absence of sufficient guarantees of representation, he is inclined, in many cases, to take measures of pre-trial detention. However, it is sufficient to attend an immediate appearance session to understand that many other measures could be taken. They're not even considered! That is why we propose to include this measure in the law and to reverse the logic. All measurements in an open environment must be studied, not just the SWA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u555	I put to the vote Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u556	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 5 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u557	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u558	It tends to establish collegiality in the case of remand in custody by order of the investigating judge. We believe that collegiality is a cardinal principle of justice and a strong demand for custodial measures because it would better guarantee respect for individual freedoms and fundamental rights. We do not want to cripple the justice system and we reject any financial argument when it comes to custodial measures, in particular pre-trial detention. In addition, this provision would allow for a more careful consideration of the appropriateness of deciding on an alternative measure to pre-trial detention, which would have the advantage of not filling prisons with persons who would be better left out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u559	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 218.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u560	It tends to raise the threshold for the use of pre-trial detention, as no less than 30 per cent of detainees are currently in pre-trial detention. I'm saying 30 percent! Not 3%! These people, though presumed innocent, suffer from the shock of prisons and the overcrowding of prisons. Furthermore, without going back to the possibility of extension, this amendment aims to limit the duration of pre-trial detention by harmonising the duration of the initial detention term, which in any case will be limited to four months. I don't know what tone I should say: if we don't reform the pre-trial detention regime, you won't achieve the prison reduction goals you set yourself! All alternative measures to pre-trial detention should be highlighted and imposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u561	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u562	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u563	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u564	Same opinion. I share Mr Bernalicis' concern to combat pre-trial detention...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u565	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u566	... but I will present other measures in this regard. The bill contains a set of provisions to reduce pre-trial detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u567	I have before me an amendment No 688, introducing an additional article after Article 35a, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 1645. Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u568	It concerns a subject of great importance: the secrecy of investigation and investigation. There is a principle in our country: the secrecy of investigation and investigation, for very simple reasons, which are due to the protection of the presumption of innocence but also to the proper and serene administration of justice, which must be rendered by a judicial court and not by a media court. It is an euphemism to say that, every day, this secret of investigation and investigation is violated, almost systematically. Pretending otherwise would be hypocritical. It is not even possible to avoid this violation of the secrecy of the investigation and investigation. There is no justification for accepting such a violation, often motivated by voyeurism, when it comes to common law cases, or by political use. For whoever violates this secret to spread it has something behind his head: he wants some of the information, often biased, often chosen by him, to be disseminated. Of course, I'll be told that the public needs to be informed. That is why I propose that you prohibit the publication of all matters relating to the secrecy of the investigation and the investigation, with the exception of the initiation of the investigation, which must indeed be made available to the public, the opening of the information and the initiation of the investigation. For the rest, the obligation of secrecy would extend until the removal order, which would sign the waiver of secrecy with the commencement of the public trial. It is a shame to see such leaks organized every day. Above all, they fuel French disaffection with regard to justice. I therefore propose the creation of a dedicated paragraph in Title II of Book II of the Criminal Code, entitled "From the breach to the secrecy of investigation and investigation". This secret must be extended to all and not only to those involved in the investigation. In order to make this secret effective, I repeat, we propose to prohibit any dissemination of information covered by these secrets. Some will speak of the secrecy of the sources, but this has nothing to do with the fact that the secrecy of the sources is precisely the means of continuing to violate the secrecy of the investigation and investigation. It is simply a matter of prohibiting publication. As journalists do not have the right to publish the identity of minors, they would not have the right to publish what is the secret of investigation and investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u569	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 1645.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u570	I'm going in the same direction as Mrs. Le Pen. In recent years, the secret of investigation and investigation has become a secret of polichinella. Once true guarantor of the independence of our justice, it necessarily implies that the procedure is not made public and that none of its elements are reported in the press. However, in recent years, I repeat, news has been richly fed by information that should have been protected by the secrecy of the investigation. Political opponents are the primary targets of this violation of the secrecy of investigation, which is unhealthy in a country claiming the presumption of innocence, fair trial and independence of justice. It is not normal for a public person, when subject to judicial investigation, to be afraid to read the minutes of his hearing in Le Canard enchainé or any other newspaper. Our justice must be impartial and independent, without any connection to the press, which sometimes becomes a real people's court where, overnight, a person can see his reputation and career broken. For what purpose? Certainly not to echo justice but too often to render one's own justice! This deviance of the system is unbearable and contributes to the French's distrust of justice – one in two French in 2017, let's not forget. That is why my amendment seeks to consider as an aggravating circumstance the disclosure by a magistrate or a judicial police officer of an item subject to the secrecy of the investigation or investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u571	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u572	It is true that the secrecy of the investigation is a problem in France because it is often, too often, violated. If we agree with that, then we still have to agree on the modalities for this to change. The balance between the secrecy of instruction and the right to information must be measured with caution. In this case, if I understand correctly, you are proposing to extend the obligation of secrecy to persons who do not assist in the proceedings, which is a first danger. A second danger would be the restriction of the acts to which those same persons might refer. Finally, this amendment could severely restrict the freedom of expression and communication – in particular that of journalists – to which we are particularly committed. If we share the same objective, it cannot be achieved through these excessive and overly direct channels. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion on both the amendment and the sub-amendment, which makes this offence an aggravating circumstance when committed by a magistrate or a judicial police officer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u573	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u574	It is also unfavourable. It's a real question: I admit to being very shocked by the reading of newspapers that reveal the reports, the very day after the opening of the investigation or the investigation. However, it would be excessive, in the light of the constitutionally protected freedom of expression, to extend the requirement of secrecy to persons who do not participate in the proceedings and to restrict acts that may be made public. Creating a specific criminality to punish more severely any form of violation of the secrecy of investigation and investigation, whatever the circumstances and consequences, would create a hierarchy with other forms of criminally protected and sometimes highly sensitive secrets, too. If violations of the secrecy of the investigation can shock, the situations are so complex and delicate that they require a thorough reflection, if Parliament so wishes, which could lead to proposals. However, this is not the purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u575	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u576	I'm having a hard time understanding your reasoning, Madam Keeper of the Seals. You admit that there is a problem but you have no solution to offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u577	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u578	The subject is sensitive and deserves reflection, I agree. In fact, we have considered this and, if we propose such a provision, it is that we see no other way of preventing the violation of secrecy! The rapporteur speaks of danger, but there is no danger of enforcing the law, guaranteeing respect for the secrecy of the investigation and investigation, of which we all recognize that it is violated every day, sometimes even before the judge's office leaves, believe my experience! We have no other choice because the situation has not changed, despite the numerous complaints filed. You know that no one is going to go through the fads of the prosecutor's office, the investigating judge, or the police officer. Let's be serious, it's not happening. The ban on publication seems to me to be the simplest and most reasonable solution. Do not pretend that the failure to learn from the press that was present at Mr. Mélenchon's home on the morning of his search or the details of the insults to Alexia Daval's body would be an infringement of the right to information! The ignorance of these elements, which testify to a violation of the secrecy of the investigation and the investigation, does not affect it! On the contrary, their revelation is punished by the law! I propose that you make this secret efficient by simply prohibiting their publication. You would thus solve this problem while preserving the right to information for the public, which must be limited to the opening of the investigation, the opening of the investigation, the indictment and, of course, the order for removal, after which the secrecy is lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u579	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u580	We have had the opportunity to initiate this debate in the Law Committee. Together with my colleague Eric Diard, we then denounced the repeated violations of the secrecy of investigation and investigation, which undermine the confidence of our fellow citizens in justice. You told us, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that you yourself were shocked by these violations – you have just repeated it. It is important that the parliamentarians we are and the minister you are join us in this regard. However, the steps to be taken are not as simple as that. Care must be taken to ensure that certain principles, such as freedom of the press and the work of lawyers, are respected, which are also important. However, we absolutely must move forward. It would be important for the Law Committee to commit itself to addressing this issue, for example in the context of a fact-finding mission that would quickly make proposals that would allow us to move forward on this important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u581	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u582	During the examination of another text, the former Minister of Culture had called for consideration to be given to the establishment of a press ethics council, and the idea was taken up by his successor. In this way, journalists would have a genuine ethics committee, which would give opinions and to which recourse would be possible. The creation of such a structure, which does not yet exist in our country, would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u583	It's buzz!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u584	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I very much believe in the ability of the profession to regulate itself and to set a number of rules. It would be more effective than a judicial procedure, which would intervene anyway long after the violations, when the harm will be done, alas...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u585	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u586	It concerns the organisation of our future debates, Mr President. There are still 650 amendments to be considered on the ordinary bill, not to mention those tabled on the organic bill. This night, however, the perimeter around the National Assembly will be closed because of the demonstrations scheduled for tomorrow. We are also a number of people who wonder how we can leave tomorrow morning to reach the stations and airports,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u587	To participate in the festivities of the Holy Barbe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u588	[[Smile]] ... especially on the occasion of the Sainte-Barbe, dear colleague of Saint-Malo! This afternoon we examined forty to forty-five amendments per hour. Admittedly, a number of our colleagues will not be here this night and will not defend their amendments, but I do not see how we can decently continue the discussion of these bills beyond one or two in the morning. As far as my group is concerned, I say very clearly that we are prepared not to obstruct – I believe that everyone has understood that we are not doing so –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u589	Indeed, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u590	... and to continue the examination of the two texts if it should lead us to an hour, an hour and a half or two hours, but it is out of the question for us to go beyond. It is not a blackmail or a threat; It's information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u591	Act is given of your point of order, Mr. Gosselin. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-23-O1079.u592	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, and the organic bill on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
