ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on enterprise growth and transformation (No. 1088, 1237). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is nine hours and fifty minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 509 amendments are under discussion; Nine hours four minutes for the Republican Group, 948 of which are under discussion; two hours fifty-nine minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 188 amendments are under discussion; four hours twenty-seven minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, of which 241 amendments are under discussion; four hours eight minutes for the Socialist and Related Group, of which 130 amendments are under discussion; three fifteen minutes for the La France group, of which 115 amendments are under discussion; three hours twenty-one minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, 102 of which are under discussion; one hour twenty-four minutes for non-attached Members, of which 168 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Valérie Oppelt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u3	Madam President, Mr Minister, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest challenges facing our country is the transformation of our economic model. This major challenge questions our ability to deal with our structural weaknesses, and in the bottom of them, to respond to the deterioration of indicators, including the employment situation. The business growth and transformation bill, says PACTE, which we are looking at today, is part of that perspective. It reflects an ambition: that of the growth of our enterprises and their transformation, which could bring them into the realities of the twenty-first century. In this sense, this text is part of a simplification of business life. It aims to remove the obstacles they face, to enable entrepreneurs to develop their business more freely and to involve employees more effectively in the success of their business. As I myself have gone through the complex stages of starting a business, I have regularly faced the burden of administrative procedures, the costs and the problems they cause. Beyond the difficulty of setting up a business, the sustainability of the structures created remains another important issue. At a time when one in three Frenchmen is considering setting up or resuming a business, 50% of them disappear before reaching their sixth year of existence. This figure falls to 34% when entrepreneurs are accompanied. The issue of support and information to entrepreneurs, too often isolated, is one of the major challenges facing the CAPTE Act. As such, the reform of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, CCI, is a major quinquennium project: first of all because the KICs are key players in development and an indispensable asset for the dynamism and cohesion of our territories, but above all because through this reform it is not only the support and support of our companies that are questioned, but also the place of the State. In recent years, the constraint on public finances has led the Government to reduce ITC resources. Since 2013, successive finance laws, with the exception of the one in 2017, have each devoted a reduction in the budget of the chambers, leading them to make significant efforts. The parliamentary fact-finding mission on chambers of commerce and industry, of which I was appointed co-rapporteur with my colleague Stella Dupont, was set up in order to draw up a precise diagnosis of the situation and the consequences of the recent reforms. In this context, it is necessary to conduct this analysis as comprehensively as possible, without limiting itself to an overly restrictive accounting and financial approach. We have therefore chosen to review the missions of the chambers in order to identify those which should be publicly funded, before considering the organization of the network and finally the modernization of the economic model and financing. Some of the measures in the report have been translated into amendments that have been discussed, and for some adopted during the examination of the text in committee. The most significant aims are to increase the role of the CCI France network head by assigning him the competence to allocate the room fee, to allow the definition of the real estate strategy of the chambers and to enshrine the principle of the existence of trade union rights for all public and private agents employed by the institutions of the network. Other measures that we believe are necessary for the reform – such as a time limit on the number of terms of office of chamber presidents for better representation, or the use of private law staff in the network's institutions for all future recruitments – will be discussed during the discussion of the text in the coming days. When voted, the PACTE bill will therefore significantly change the operation and functions of the consular network. As for the issue of funding for chambers of commerce and industry, it has been at the heart of recent news and will be again very soon with the consideration of the 2019 finance bill. As you said, Minister, PACTE is a text for SMEs and employment. Within the bill, the reform of the KICs is a key issue. Unlike previous years, the announced decrease in the budget of the chambers in the 2019 finance bill is part of a real structural reform thought over the long term. It reflects a desire to reduce levies on businesses, with which I join. We must encourage the actors in the conduct of the work of rationalisation, but it is also our responsibility, Minister, to sustain this tool, which plays a decisive role in territorial cohesion and economic development. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text provides an opportunity to remove obstacles to business growth and to free talent. We are facing a historic opportunity for the health of our economy. This PACTE opens up new fronts that reflect the Government's commitment to pursue the country's economic transformation with determination and I am confident that our discussions will contribute to enriching it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u4	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u5	There are bills that we don't know how to deal with. This is the case. The Business Growth and Transformation Action Plan is an ambitious text, but – I am not the first to say it – fills everything; Undeniably animated by the best will of the world, but disparate and ultimately fruitless. "A bric-à-brac of short-range heteroclites measurements", in the words of Frédéric Gonand, professor of economics associated with the Université Paris-Dauphine. The worst thing is that even the Directorate General of the Treasury, although attached to the Ministry of Economy, confirms this. On 5 September, the Commission published an assessment of the macro-economic impact of the CAPTE. The results are more than disappointing: more than 0.3 percentage points of GDP by 2025 – almost nothing. The Treasury has therefore publicly indicated that PACTE will have virtually no effect on growth. Why? The problem with the PACTE law is that it is under-calibrated: pure grooming. The measures proposed go for a lot in the right direction, and contribute to the morale of business leaders after the years of Holland batting, but unfortunately they will not produce the necessary shock for companies to start investing much more and to hire proportionately. You repeat to the envious, minister, that the state is not intended to receive dividends, but rather to invest. Either; but the need for fresh money in state funds must not justify everything, especially if it is to have our companies, among the most strategic, bought by foreign actors. Is it reasonable, for example, to consider transferring our airports to Chinese groups? Some provisions are based on a good intention, but are likely to produce the opposite effect of the one sought, such as the end of the pre-installation course, SPI. However, it is known that the companies whose founders followed the SPI have a three-year survival rate of 75%, compared to only 50% for those who did not attend the SPI. Why, in these circumstances, should the compulsory nature of these trainings be abolished? Why not play instead on their duration, their cost or their content? PACTE reduces certain constraints – from social thresholds to the management of retirement savings, transmission and bankruptcy law – which, for thirty years, have limited or completely prevented the growth of our businesses. That's very good, let's make it easier for our businesses! But why the hell are you stopping in the middle of the ford? A few examples: could we not have embarked on the 35-hour reform? We didn't do it in the labour law. Perhaps it would have been relevant to think about this bill because this year we are celebrating the twenty years of this iconic reform of the left, whose record is in two words: loss of productivity and loss of competitiveness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u6	That's more than two words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u7	We could have also talked about the shops in the city centres. Yes, I know, the issue has already been addressed in Bill ELAN, at least that is what we are told. But, unless I am mistaken, tax mechanisms have not yet been put in place to encourage the establishment of businesses in cities whose centres have commercial vacancy rates of more than 10 per cent. We could also have listened to those French people who can no longer see their neighbourhoods transformed into giant shoot rooms that make traders in the neighbourhood flee. The testimonies of the latter are instructive: "Our daily life has become a hell," they explain. Why not give up on these dangerous experiments which have an extremely negative impact on the economic activity of these neighbourhoods? Finally, we could have rethought in depth the estates, for example for the agricultural owners, by simplifying even more the access to the Dutreil transmission pact, which, as you know, provides for a 75% discount on the value of a business when it comes to a donation or succession. This would be concrete, reflecting a desire to change our system in depth. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] So I do not hide my disappointment: towards this text, of course, which avoids the real subjects and will thus have little chance of producing the economic shock necessary to make France the most competitive country in Europe, as Emmanuel Macron promised; but also with regard to the method of examination chosen since, once again trapped in the scheduled legislative time, non-attached Members will not be able to defend all of their amendments. This is becoming an unfortunate habit. The new world is definitely not very voltairian.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u8	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u9	The PACTE bill translates a winning equation: to reconcile economic excellence with the imperative of fairer businesses. This text concentrates an employment policy through enterprise growth and a growth policy through a structural approach to the transformation of the economic model. This is the result of a renewed labour code, a rethought of taxation to encourage investment and renewed voluntarism for training. It is part of a coherent and mature legislative package, which aims at the creation of freed, better-funded, more innovative and fairer companies that serve the growth of our economy. The ambition of this text is twofold: first, to remove obstacles to the growth of enterprises, at each stage of their development – the strategic objective of the CAPTE is to make SMEs grow, the beating heart of our economy; Next, putting companies at the heart of society by giving employees the rightful share they have. The method of this text has also been a pioneering one, with the emphasis being placed on dialogue and consultation over a whole year with all stakeholders in the company's life. Within the special commission itself, the collective work of co-construction was significant: all ideas could be defended, and many of them were retained. The text, which is ready to be debated in a public sitting, has been reinforced by a debate in a rich and productive committee, which is not displeased by those who invoke our method as an argument of rejection because they lack substantive arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u10	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u11	The dynamics of the PACTE law are based on two main drivers: the company and the employees. The first driving force is the company: it is the main source of employment in France. The aim of the project we are defending is to act on several levels. We are acting first of all by easing and simplifying. These are the key words of this bill, because they will allow our SMEs to free themselves from administrative constraints to focus on growth relays. This is the whole stake of the one-stop shop, very widely welcomed. We then act on productive investment by directing the savings of the French towards the own funds of companies, in order to stimulate innovation and competitiveness. We set out to do this as part of the "Great Rendez-vous of Productive Investment" held at the beginning of the year in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u13	Finally, we are acting on attractiveness so that our businesses are better financed, for example by strengthening the PEA-SME, modernising the eurogrowth fund or simplifying the rules governing retirement savings. The second driving force is the employees. "There is only a wealth of men": Jean Bodin's centuries-old sentence is just as relevant to the 21st century enterprise. This is why the success of a company must also be that of the employees. To do this, the PACTE law offers several tools to optimize the sharing of created value. First of all, we are acting on the schemes of interest by ensuring better information and involvement of employees, as well as by abolishing the social package on interest, which is a real incentive. Employee share ownership is a motivating tool that allows a fair reward for work, but let's be clear: self-interest completes the salary, it does not replace it. At the end of the year, the employee will receive more. It is a way of obtaining more justice, that is, more compensation for employees, without damaging the competitiveness of companies. Secondly, we value the company's key place in our society, at the heart of social and environmental issues. We wish to devote this added value of the company to the highest standard by amending the civil code. This is the whole meaning of recognizing the social interest of the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u15	We can say that our business policy is a policy of constancy and stimulation – a policy of consistency with the introduction, within the framework of the 2018 Finance Law, of a multi-year mechanism encouraging productive investment, to prepare a policy of stimulation, with the PACTE law, which will free productive dynamism and develop our businesses. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some deplore the timidity of this bill, while others blame him for his audacity. As Mr. Minister has wisely said, this means that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u16	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u17	This bill, entitled "Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation", or more soberly "Macron 2 Law", gives rise to hope, and even a lot of hope, on the part of the business world and many French people who are in the labour market or who would like to access it. It is precisely because hope is great that disillusionment could be immense. The filiation of this text – the Macron 1 law – raises concerns that the stated objectives will not be achieved again. Your text contains a series of proposals as diverse as they are varied, which gives us strangely the impression of having in front of us a catalogue ranging from the right of security rights to wage savings, privatization and the regulation of foreign investment, not to mention the issues of thresholds or single window for companies. Our country has lost nearly a million industrial jobs in ten years. I am the chosen one of a territory particularly affected by the consequences of this savage globalization, which has destroyed nearly 200,000 jobs of workers in thirty years in my region of the Hauts-de-France. Of course, we want a number of economic issues to be dealt with and new dynamics to be set in motion. But your bill is part of ultraliberalism. The most striking example is the privatization of three major iconic companies, Aéroports de Paris, Engie and La Française des jeux. Brader's family jewelry never allowed a state to get rich, on the contrary! The objective of recovering resources to finance the investment is certainly commendable, but the purely accounting vision that drives you and that of gradually removing the state of its flagships is an economic aberration. To return to growth, we must first and foremost recreate a climate of trust with those who are at the heart of our national economic fabric – of course I want to talk about these thousands of entrepreneurs, TPEs, SMEs, PMIs. France currently has nearly 4 million enterprises, including 3.8 million SMEs. Within these economic structures, only 125,000 are exporting, compared with 250,000 in Italy and almost 400,000 in Germany. Our country is lagging far behind, which is high time to catch up. Beyond this objective, we need to look in detail at the reasons for the too weak dynamism that affects many of our businesses. The question of charges is obviously a subject, but the debate cannot be reduced to that question alone. The cause of the difficulty for our SMEs to develop – and even often to live, quite simply – lies in the unfair international competition they face. Our companies are subject to economic, social and environmental dumping on a daily basis. In the face of this unfair competition, there is a solution...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u18	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u19	...that you allow watermarking in certain sections of your bill: this is called intelligent protectionism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u20	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u21	It is thanks to this protectionism that we could have prevented our strategic sectors from having to employ foreign companies. It is not acceptable for it to be a foreign company that wins a bid to equip our military while we have flowers in our country. It is indeed natural to protect its economic fabric, as many countries do in the world. This is precisely what you are trying to do in section 55 of this bill, which is devoted to strengthening the system of prior authorization to which foreign investments in France are subject, particularly when they are likely to affect security, public order or the interests of national defence. You're a bit like Mr.Jourdain de Molière: you're doing protectionism without knowing it! But if this system is to be truly effective, we must also accept a profound change in the economic model of free trade that we know today. For many SMEs, even if they do not evolve specifically within the scope of so-called sensitive activities, can no longer keep pace with this deregulation. It will also be necessary, sooner or later, to emancipate the European Union, which is helping to curb the dynamism of our companies, and thus the creation of jobs. [[Bruno Bilde applauds]] Our country can no longer afford the luxury of an umpteenth plan of action with questionable efficiency. Once again, with this text, you are in the "at the same time". You do not really tackle the causes of the difficulties that penalize our businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u22	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u23	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill called "PACTE" is quite commendable. Indeed, who can be opposed to measures to enable business growth and transformation? However, Minister, we are wondering about the overall answers you are providing to this question. In the face of the challenge of reviving economic dynamism, we regret that too often we limit ourselves to simplifying the lives of businesses. This formulation often goes hand in hand with a single reduction in social obligations. This is the case in this text, through the length of the derogations from the application of the obligations when the social and tax thresholds are exceeded. Will this measure have sufficient effects on employment? It's too early to say. At the same time, you are continuing the disengagement of the State in yet strategic sectors, whether in energy or transport infrastructure, as here for Aéroports de Paris, Engie or the French of the Games – the previous speakers have already said. However, the political and economic control of the production and networks of energy and infrastructure such as airports is essential to the realization of an efficient and sustainable development strategy for a country in the long term. I confess that I do not understand how all this will allow growth – I see only the implementation of an ideology. While the United Kingdom is returning, more than 30 years later, to Margaret Thatcher's wave of privatisation by renationalizing certain railway lines and prisons, does not privatisation of public enterprises seem to be an old idea of the 1980s, which has made its time? In the face of the challenges of reviving the economy, we could have encouraged large companies to be more equitable in sharing the wealth created. Almost 70% of the profits of CAC 40 companies are still distributed as dividends; Only 5% are converted into bonuses for employees and 25% are spent on investments. Is there not a need for even stronger rebalancing in favour of work and investment? "Supporting the work," however, is the slogan of your 2019 finance bill, which we will be looking at shortly. The same applies to the involvement of employees in decision-making within the governing bodies of large companies. As we know, France is very behind in the representation of employees on the boards of directors and in the level of transparency on wage differentials. In this respect, the article that you introduced in the special committee appears quite cosmetic. We have tabled amendments aimed at enhancing this transparency – amendments which, unfortunately, we will not be able to defend, since it has been decided to apply, once again, too much, the scheduled legislative time procedure. It's been a lot in a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u24	The majority wants to stifle the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u25	This text also discusses the future of the consular chambers, whose missions remain important to our territories and businesses. On this point, we believe that solutions adapted to each territory – and not a single solution – can be made. We propose that Corsica be, in a way, a laboratory to reflect on new organisational patterns for the consular network, in keeping with the process of decentralising the powers of the state to the local authorities, in line with the letter sent to you, Mr. Minister, on 13 September by the President of the Executive Council of Corsica, Gilles Simeoni. We therefore propose that you start together a work of reflection involving the community of Corsica, the State and the consular chambers in order to consider concretely the transfer to the community of the above-mentioned bodies. Finally, when it comes to the development of enterprises and the creation of wealth, I cannot, as chairman of the Corsican Massif Committee, fail to raise the question of the cumulation of constraints faced by companies in certain specific territories such as the islands. I know that you, Minister, are sensitive to the improvement of the economic situation in the territories such as Corsica and to the development of a productive and circular economy which we very much need. You know these constraints: the narrowness of the market, the higher cost of living, public services, transport and raw materials. You came to Corsica last June with a spirit of openness that we can greet. You know that the creation of a tax and social status of companies in Corsica and, more particularly, of a priority tax area in the mountains is a matter for a number of elected representatives and is the subject of political unanimity on the island – I know that this is a subject to be dealt with under a finance law. Moreover, we are still waiting for the conclusions of the report of the General Inspectorate of Finance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u26	They're coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u27	... hoping that they will not be marked by the seal of dogmatism unfortunately too often developed by the central administrations towards Corsica. We expect a true political vision of the specificities of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u28	I'll even come to see you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u29	Good! We must respond to this very strong territorial divide with appropriate tools. Indeed, rural revitalisation zones – ZRR –, regional aid zones and highly securitised tax advantages are not effective in the long term. But I think you know that! [[Paul-André Colombani applauds]] Are you ready, Minister, to implement a mechanism of this magnitude to rebalance the coastline and the mountain, between the centre and the periphery, and finally to promote the construction of a productive economy in Corsica and in the territories of the same type?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u30	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u31	France is not for sale. France is not a publicly traded company with shares shared at the pace of the virtual economy. France is not Mr Macron's property. A thousand-year-old nation, it belongs to those who have shaped it over the centuries, manipulating the sword, the plow, the trowel or the feather. Emmanuel Macron has no right over this national capital: he was elected to drive and represent the nation for five years, not to braid and cut it like a sausage. Since his election, Emmanuel Macron has still not removed his banker's jacket and he is working methodically to deconstruct the foundations, peculiarities and prides of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u32	You're jealous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u33	His new world is a hybrid monster, combining the temptation of the shave table and, "at the same time," the continuity of the worst practices in the world of yesterday. The PACTE law is typical of the ultraliberal and deracinated society project that is the trademark of Macronie. The Government is resuming massive privatizations and the decline in state stakes in French gaming, Paris Airports and ENGIE. The stated objective is, as usual, to bring money into the coffers. Privatization is the cream bowl of wild liberalism. Experience now teaches us that this transfer of ownership always weakens the general interest and always favours shareholders. Mr. Minister, you may well fall behind your outdated language elements,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u34	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u35	... the French know the reality and consequences of your orientations. By privatizing, you do not free growth. By privatizing, you do not reduce deficits. By privatising, you do not create jobs in France. By privatizing, you do not improve the quality of service for users. By privatizing, you don't lower prices. The French still have in mind the false guarantees, advanced during the privatization of motorways, on the control of toll rates and the maintenance of the network. "It is progress and the sense of history," we were swore to the heart. The only progress has been made in favour of motorway companies, which have earned €1.6 billion in dividends as a result of the 20% increase in tolls in ten years. The motorists, on the other hand, went to the cash register.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u36	And it's not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u37	Colleagues, motorways, like the French Games and Aéroports de Paris belong to all French people for the simple and good reason that they have already largely financed them by their direct and indirect taxes. Selling the shares of the state is an aberration but also a betrayal. Today, with this bill, you are moving to the next stage. [[Other movements]] Minister, privatizing Aéroports de Paris is a madness. ADP is not TF1 or the Société générale. It's the first national border. This is where Islamist terrorists can be intercepted and neutralized. It is a filter that must be controlled by the public authorities to ensure the safety of the French and respect for their vital interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u38	You had to think about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u39	You intend to disengage from a major strategic asset, as all the great nations of the world control their airports, hence their borders. In Beijing, Tokyo, airports are public and the state strictly controls the entrances to its land. Even the United States has not privatized its thousands of airports, aware of security issues. This disastrous "Macron 2" law, because that is how it must be named, will not promote the creation and development of enterprises, but it will certainly boost massive immigration. Mr Minister, we know that you are in this matter only the vassal of the European Union, which imposes its roadmap, its political choices and its objectives in order to keep France in the Brussels carcan. The model of society you are implementing, that of profitability, is doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u40	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u41	Through the PACTE Act, the Government is trying to propose solutions to a number of macro- and micro-economic blockages, and ultimately to revive growth, an attempt carried out through interventions of a very diverse nature and level of competence, a commendable attempt given the economic realities, precisely, and therefore social realities. The effectiveness of the company is indeed a prerequisite for success in these areas. We would have liked to have given our feeling on a number of these measures, but – scheduled time requires – we will only briefly highlight one aspect of things. We would like to stress the need for coordination between local and regional authorities and chambers of commerce and industry. Communities, as well as metropolises, have economic development skills. It would be logical for the KICs, whose dynamism and efficiency are known in these areas, to be structurally involved. Rationality requires coordination, which means that the KICs can act as regional development agencies. In addition, the public service mission of the KICs should be promoted in the most fragile and peripheral regions. The head of the network – I am of course talking about CCI France – should act as a real planning agency, concerned with adapting to local realities, so with territorial rebalancing In passing, I will observe how the choice to recentralize the management of the chambers, by systematically placing CCI France at the heart of the system, will be counterproductive of the policy of giving the regions more skills to promote growth. It seems to us difficult and counterproductive to want to promote everything and its opposite. This issue is part of a global issue, about which the Government requested a report co-produced in March 2018 by the General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF –, the General Council of Economy, Industry, Energy and Technology – CGEIET – and the General Economic and Financial Control – CGEfi – on the evolution of chambers of commerce and chambers of commerce. This report refers to three possible scenarios. The first is to strengthen the supervision of the State with the refocusing of the missions financed by the room fee, together with the disappearance of the territorial and departmental CCIs. The second is to transfer the tutelage and financing of consular networks to the regional councils, in order to ensure coherence of development action. The third is the financial disengagement of the State, by supporting the method of financing from benefits of service or voluntary contributions. In the face of these alternatives, it is difficult, for symmetrical reasons, to imagine either privatisation of the chambers or centralised management. Beyond the necessary adaptations to local conditions, it may be necessary to move towards local public establishment statutes under the supervision of the communities, which would enable them to implement public policy on economic development. As is well known: the KICs operate effectively in the fields of enterprise, transport, tourism or vocational training. It is therefore logical to take this into account when changing their statutory organization. With regard to Corsica, in view of the fact that this statutory change would be in addition to a territorial reorganization still under way, a task of diagnosis and advice will have to be undertaken, which will address the legal modalities of the reconciliation, the financial situation, the social question, the distribution of powers, the costs and benefits of this option compared with the other scenarios envisaged in the report of the General Inspectorate of Finance. This mission could be carried out by the community of Corsica, either internally or through assistance in the management of works – AMO – after deliberation by the Assemblée de Corse. It would of course intervene by fully involving the State and the Chambers of Commerce, both in terms of the scope of the mission and its implementation. The same procedure shall be applied mutatis mutandis for chambers of commerce. [[Olivia Grégoire, Chairman of the Special Committee, applauds]] We will therefore propose a number of amendments on these and other topics. We would like in the course of the debate – which is why we are shortening our speech – to have even a second to defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u42	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u43	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the PACTE Act is to facilitate the daily lives of businesses by simplifying the procedures. That is commendable, indeed. As an elected representative, I know how the leaders of SMEs, especially Corsican SMEs, are sometimes forced by the proliferation of regulations and how the spirit of initiative of young people who want to launch can be undermined by the forest of standards. All this is in addition to the constraints of insularity. But simplifying doesn't mean deciding in the pile, blindly. We must remain vigilant that simplification does not rhyme with less so-called social. I am thinking, for example, of reducing thresholds for SMEs. Indeed, as the number of employees increases in a company, the more bonds accumulate: as a result, some small employers are not encouraged to hire more, so as not to complicate their lives. The CAPTE Act provides that if the thresholds are crossed, a boss may be granted a five-year stay before the upper threshold obligations are applied. However, I wonder how unscrupulous employers will be prevented from juggling with thresholds, for example by dismissing those hired in addition, just before the end of the five years, to go below the initial threshold. The measure therefore risks opening the door to social dumping, creating a trap for precarious jobs or a bonus for the CSD. On the privatization of the Paris airport, I am more than reserved. I am afraid that the service to Corsica, much less profitable during the winter than during the summer season, is of less interest to the new owners. How can we give the private sector such an important tool for spatial planning? Will the US pension funds that will be shareholders in ten years' time be interested in operating the lines deemed unprofitable but vital for the development and survival of our territories? I could have also talked about the French game or ENGIE, but my colleagues did it before me. In particular, I come to an amendment which I tabled on this text concerning the future of the consular chambers in Corsica, of which my colleagues, Mr Acquaviva and Mr Castellani, have also spoken. This has to do with the institutional framework for the support of SMEs on my island. I would have liked to defend this amendment, but I will be prevented from doing so by the scheduled legislative time procedure. When he is called, the speaking time for non-registrants is likely to be up, which in fact compels my right of amendment. I regret this, because although the opposition's amendments are mostly rejected in principle, presenting them allows at least to spark debate and ask the Government to position itself. The future of Chambers of Commerce and Industry and Chambers of Crafts and Crafts was discussed in order to take better account of the constraints of insularity and, above all, to take note of the arrival of the single community. Several scenarii have been envisaged: strengthening the tutelage of the State, which would not really go in the direction of history; Disengagement of the public with increased benefit-based funding; Finally, in order to take account of the powers of economic development of the community, a transition from state supervision to the supervision of the community has been envisaged by the IGF, the CGefi – and the CGEIET. I must tell you that the consular chambers of Corsica and the staff have solemnly and publicly expressed their preference for this last scenario, but I think that the reflection should remain open. That is why my amendment proposes that a mutual report be ordered in connection with the state, the community and the consular chambers of Corsica in order to resolve this question and to give the corse institutional actors a transparent statement of what these different scenarios imply. To conclude on a positive note, I would nevertheless like to welcome the new definition of companies proposed by the Civil Code through this text. [[Mr. Jean-Félix Acquaviva applauds]] From now on, a company will no longer only defend the interests of shareholders, but also those of employees and the environment. With the strengthening of employee interest in the company, this kind of measure goes in the right direction. I can only salute her, promising that this is a good start and that we will have to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u44	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u45	Minister, your bill is full of good intentions. It sometimes contains good measures, such as the abolition of the social package, the encouragement of participation and self-interest, and the rationalisation of thresholds. But a project cannot be an assembly of roughies, especially since, unfortunately, you do not deal with the fundamental problems of our economy. In fact, you have succeeded in the tragic feat of breaking the growth your predecessors had left you. You have achieved this by increasing taxes, sacrificing pensioners, which you will continue to do, since you will remove the indexation of retirement pensions to inflation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u47	When you say that you will return 6 billion euros of purchasing power to the French, you lie to them while looking straight into their eyes, since you do not count in this calculation the two billions you will save with the unindexing of retirement pensions on inflation. Worse: this disindexation is a scandal, because you make it look like pensioners don't work, when they have worked hard and given all their effort to the nation. You're robbing retirees, you're breaking up with the principle of distribution. This is an absolute scandal. But perhaps Mr. Macron's idea is to create pension funds to put an end to the principle of allocation? In fact, you know very well, the distribution is based on trust. Now, you are sacrificing confidence in the younger generations, who will say: If a government like this is capable of deindexing retirement pensions, it means that one can no longer believe in the distribution. Worse, you're not dealing with unfair competition. You can multiply the roughnesses for SMEs, but our country welcomes 500,000 posted workers and our craftsmen have to face, in France, companies that do not pay social charges, which, you know very well, poses a huge problem. There is an increasing number of posted workers. Emmanuel Macron got absolutely nothing serious in Brussels; He once again went to bed in front of his partners. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There's something even more serious. Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy, had organised the looting of Alstom, Technip, Lafarge I hope that justice will one day be done on the Lafarge case: how has a government been able to offer such an important industry to the Americans, with the consequences we know, especially on the operation of our nuclear submarines? But in this case, you are surpassing yourself: you are going to do the worst business ever since the privatisation of motorways. It is first and foremost a matter of national security; I would point out that a large liberal country, like the United States, has not abandoned control of its main airports, because the Americans know that they are the gateways to their nation, and that of course they must be kept public. Another problem, of comparable gravity, is that you make it look like it's a good financial affair. I would like to prove to you that this is not the case and that you are lying to the French. You made it look like with the 10 billion that came out of privatization, you were going to finance innovation. But on June 12, if my memory is good, you had to restore the truth and recognize that you are going to allocate 10 billion to a fund, which will generate an annual income of around 200 million a year – I say 200 million! – for the financing of innovation, while the three companies that you privatize and that you may be giving to buddies – like Mr Macron, when he was minister, in your place – reported in 2017 – which was a bad year – 847 million dividends to the state, 1.4 billion in 2016, 1.1 billion in 2015 and, to go back to 2012, 1.5 billion. That means you're doing the worst deal for the state budget. Not only do you abandon the country's front door, Engie, the French gaming company – which also poses a problem in terms of addiction to gambling – but you will deprive the state budget of more than 1 billion – on average – of annual revenues, to place money in a fund that will bring back, at best, between 200 and 300 million. It's a total financial nonsense! [[Applause from non-attached Members]] But we should have learned the lessons from the highways case. The Court of Auditors had rightly explained – the Financial Times had echoed this – that this was the worst case ever carried out by the French state – perhaps you were an advisor to the Prime Minister who, at the time, had organised this spoliation of the French? This operation had resulted in losses of 10 billion, an increase in tariffs, the racket of our fellow citizens. Are you proud of this, with hindsight? Are you going to do the same with Aéroports de Paris? I bet you that this company will fall into Vinci's escarcelle, as by chance, and that the state and the French will lose a lot of money. This billion dividends, which could allow the state to invest, will not, however, be lost for everyone – I am thinking of the eternal clientele of President Macron and his government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u48	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u49	I thank all the parliamentarians who spoke on the PACTE bill. I hope that our discussions will be characterized by the same level of view and sincerity, with the exception of a few interventions. On the other hand, I hope, Mr. Dupont-Aignan, that we do not give in to the temptation of caricatures or lies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You tell us that we have broken the growth that was left to us by our predecessors; However, we are growing by 1.7 percentage points, while our predecessors have left us an annual increase of 0.8 percentage points over the last ten years. That's a lie, Mr. Dupont-Aignan! Check your numbers. You also tell us that we are going to brade ADP, La Française des jeux and ENGIE, to sell them to our friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u50	Like Alstom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u51	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] But what do you know, Mr. Dupont-Aignan? Again, lie! There is no copying or special interest in the choices we make, but simply the sense of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u52	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You're telling us that when it comes to pensions, we're going to create private pension funds. But where are you going to get that? In the end, you are like the National Front: you lie and play with the fears of the French. Which is similar, gathers: you had linked yourself to the National Front in the presidential election; I invite you to join them quickly, which will allow you to regain the meaning of your action. I would like to thank the other parliamentarians for the debate we have had so far, in particular the members of the majority who, for their part, have clearly identified the problems facing the French economy today. Yes, our SMEs are overburdened with rules, excessive administrative obligations, and it is time to remove the absurd constraints that still weigh on too many of them. Yes, we need to simplify the thresholds. Yes, it is necessary to reward employees better for their work and to develop massively the interest and participation, because the key to France's economic success is also the recognition of the work of employees. Yes, we have a problem with innovation, digitalization, robotics. Let us look at the reality of the French economy, which has not digitized enough, not robotised enough, because it lacks capital to invest. This legislation will address these challenges and allow our economy to invest and innovate to catch up with its technological backwardness. Yes, it is time to allow all employees to have a simpler and more flexible retirement savings: this law will make this possible. Yes, it is time to open up to new financial techniques: this law will allow us to develop the blockchain. Yes, it is essential to have a large public financial centre to help the territories: the rapprochement between La Poste and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations will guarantee the financing necessary for the development of the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, members of the majority, be proud of the text that we will be defending, because it responds to the challenges and problems of the French economy of the 21st century. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would also like to thank the representatives of the other parties, who have joined in supporting this law, in particular Philippe Bolo, for the remarks he made on behalf of MODEM. I thank Gilles Carrez and Charles de Courson for their interventions on the fundamental issue of the governance of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. I confirm that we have listened to the criticisms and remarks of parliamentarians from all quarters. Yes, we will open the Supervisory Committee of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to parliamentarians, to allow the French Parliament to remain the real guide for this institution. I would also like to thank Daniel Fasquelle, both for his support for a few measures and his criticism of other provisions. If we can take advantage of the public debate to improve our text, we will be happy to do so. I hope that we can take on board a number of amendments from the Republican Group...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u54	Good thing we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u55	...to enable our SMEs to grow, and our growth to be ever stronger. Mr Ruffin, I listened carefully to your speech, which was, as usual, brilliant, but which, at some point, derailed. You told us that, from your early childhood, to "in your mother's belly" – I'm just repeating your remarks – you have heard the words "crisis, growth, crisis, growth", systole, diastole, systole, diastole, heartbeat... I want to reassure you: we too have a heart, and we do not necessarily dream of crisis and growth; sometimes we dream of stars, of the sea, of beautiful landscapes, of trees, of our children, of the life that will come. But where your reasoning started to derail is when you told us that growth does not bring happiness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u56	But the decline is worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u57	This reminds me of a proverb that is often quoted: money does not bring happiness but, despite everything, contributes to it. Well, growth is the same; I'm not telling you that she's making everyone happy, but I think she's contributing to it. It is global growth that has made it possible – the latest figures of the United Nations are, in this respect, eloquent – to lift tens of millions of people out of poverty throughout the world. Without growth, there is no end to poverty in the world. I think, quite simply, of these families, of these people, who, in the morning, rising up – I know that you are paying attention to this question: you have made a remarkable film on the subject – are wondering if they will find a job, if they will be able to feed their children, if they will be able to pay for their housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u58	[[Exclaims]] What is needed is growth for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u59	Mr Ruffin, only the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u60	[[Smiles and exclamations]] I listened to you with a calm Olympian. I know it's not in your character but politics, it's also, sometimes, know how to change character.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u61	And leave!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u62	...or make it evolve a little. I propose that you return to this fundamental issue of growth. Yes, growth is essential to allow everyone, simply, to pay their rent, to buy their housing, to feed their children, to pay for a trip, to go on vacation, to buy their car, to feed them in gasoline. The question is not whether we want growth or not, it is what growth we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u63	And for whom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u64	This growth seems essential to all French people, without exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u65	Growth is not the same for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I invite you to read – I think many of you have, on all sides – the remarkable report of INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – on poverty in France, which the President of the Republic has spoken about at length. It shows very clearly that there are 14 per cent of the poor in France. In other words, 14% of French people live below the poverty line, which amounts to 37% of the unemployed. Mr Ruffin, the real French scandal is that growth does not produce enough jobs, it is that there is no work for everyone, it is that everyone is still worried about their children – I am thinking in particular of the father of the family, the mother of the family, who is dismissed at the age of fifty because there is not enough work for all. All the work of this majority here is to support companies to create jobs in all territories, for all French people, without exception. That is our will.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u67	I thought you just had to cross the street to get a job!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u68	Mr Mélenchon told us earlier that it is a subject of civilization. He is right: behind every piece of law, every political act, every political decision, there is a certain idea of civilization. I would have liked to have answered Mr Mélenchon about his conception of civilization, which I do not share, even if it is obviously respectable. A civilization is a technique and it is a spirit, but there is no civilization without technique. The civilization of the wheel was based on a technique, and this wheel was improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u69	There is also the civilization of the girouette!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It was first full – it was a piece of wood – then it was emptied, equipped with rays, lightened, then the tyre was invented and, now, a wheel is being developed that will be completely autonomous and will record data. It's technical. There is no civilization without technology, and the mastery of technology, innovation, technology – it also allows me to respond to Mr. Bilde – is what makes a nation's independence and sovereignty. There is no sovereign nation in the 21st century without technological sovereignty, innovation and funding for this innovation. Yeah, I believe in technique. Yes, I think technology improves people's lives. Yes, when I visit a carcinopole, and I see the ability of the French medical world to force the doors of DNA to know if a young woman of twenty-five years will develop breast cancer, I am proud of French civilization and European civilization, which knows, from the study of the human body, to improve the lives of everyone. Yes, when I go to hospitals, and I see the developments of immunotherapy to fight cancer in a less invasive way than with surgery or chemotherapy – which, we know, weakens the sick and destroys their lives – I am proud to be in a country that is part of the civilization of technology. Technique improves the lives of everyone, especially those who suffer and are sick. Mr Mélenchon has the right to criticize the civilization of technology, but I disagree with him. Civilization is a spirit too. And yes, behind the projects we are defending, there is a French spirit, the spirit of creation, the spirit of justice, because our text wants to combat inequalities. I have said it and I will constantly redirect it in this debate, it is not abnormal that there are higher wages and lower wages in France. But I feel totally unfair that there are too high wages and too low wages, and we will make transparency on wage inequalities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u71	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u72	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...so that everyone knows the exact wage differences in a company in France. You have all said that the average of wages was an insufficient indicator: we will go further by making it compulsory to draw up a report of equity, which will contain not only the average of wages, but also the median wage, in order to know the distribution of wages in the largest French companies. A civilization is a spirit, the spirit of justice, the spirit of fighting inequality. It is also the spirit of respect for our planet. On these benches, we can all join on this point. No creation of wealth is worth it if it exhausts the main wealth, that of our planet. The President of the Republic, at the rostrum of the United Nations, has just indicated that he would now refuse to sign a trade agreement with a State that does not respect the Paris Climate Agreement; It is a way of saying that European civilization respects the planet more than the production of wealth that could exhaust it. That's what we stand for as a civilization! [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR Group and among non-attached MPs]] Our civilization is technical and it is a spirit, the spirit of the Enlightenment, the spirit of reason, the spirit of protection of our planet, the spirit of justice I have just spoken of, and the European spirit. There can be no French success without European success. At the beginning of this debate on our economy, on investment in new technologies and on the economic choices that will involve the nation as a whole, I want to convey to you my deep concern about what is happening in Europe. I have never been so worried about the future of Europe. Never, in fifteen years of political life and European commitment, which is an ongoing commitment – I was Secretary of State for European Affairs under Nicolas Sarkozy and was Minister of Agriculture, making a tour of all European states – have I been so worried about the future of European integration. For I see the rise of opposition forces, retreat forces, nationalist forces, who have not understood that national sovereignty now depends on our ability to bring together our forces, to bring together our investments, to bring together our research and technology capabilities to face China and the United States. If some want to get crushed like in a nutcracker by the two great powers that are today China and the United States, great do them! But I want to tell them that tomorrow there will be no technological capacity, independence and sovereignty for France except within the framework of the European Union. There will be power only in the context of a single currency, that you, the Front national and you, Mr Dupont-Aignan, reject the risk of impoverishing every French citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u73	You're the one who impoverishes them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u74	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That's the real debate! That's the big question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u75	What about the balance sheet of the euro?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That's the question, Mr. Bilde, today! Let everyone choose their side and do it frankly! Let everyone know what they really want! A national economic power must be built within a European framework and at the service of European civilisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u77	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u78	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u79	Mr Fabrice Brun, the first speaker on the item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u80	Empowering our businesses to grow and our economy to prosper is an objective that we can all share. In fact, your PACTE bill, even if nothing is perfect, burns all the wood to facilitate the creation and transmission of businesses, the interest and participation of employees, and to make retirement savings more accessible, while at the same time adjusting certain thresholds. But if you don't mind, minister, there's a big hole in the racket. At no time is the first problem of very small and very small enterprises addressed, i.e. recruitment, or rather the difficulty of recruiting. This is a French paradox: in a country that is experiencing mass unemployment, hundreds of thousands of jobs are not filled, in areas as varied as services, tourism, agriculture, construction, hotels and catering, mechanics and transport, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u81	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u82	You will be tempted to answer about the necessary match between jobs and training, which is part of the answer. But the evil is actually much deeper, and the real question concerns the value of work and, for some, the desire to work. My point is not to stigmatize, especially since I have experienced unemployment twice in my career: I know from experience that it is not enough to cross the street to get out of it, but it is necessary to understand the hell that tourism actors have experienced this summer to recruit. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, we are at the beginning of the discussion of this text, which will, as part of the shuttle, necessarily be enriched. Do you intend – what you can do by means of government amendments – to adapt our legislation, in order to allow all these sectors of activity, whose job offers are not filled, to recruit quickly? This is an essential issue for small businesses in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u83	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u84	The establishment of a one-stop shop will simplify the administrative procedures of our companies, which is in the right direction. Depending on the legal form of the company, its sector and its volume of activity, the obligations differ. These multiple obligations increasingly force entrepreneurs to carry out administrative tasks rather than to develop their activities. This is why we should go even further, with a personalized calendar, listing all the social and tax obligations of each company, in order to ensure the legibility of the deadlines, in the continuity of the right to error, promoted by the law of 10 August 2018 for a State at the service of a trust society. Such provisions are the minimum that we owe to our businesses, the first wealth of our territories, and to our entrepreneurs, who do not count their time or the risk taken every day. It is the companies which form the basis of our economy, which guarantee the safety of their employees' homes and which innovate, thus generating the dynamism of our territories. Simplifying the administrative procedures of companies has therefore become crucial, so that entrepreneurial initiatives can be carried out and serve the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u85	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u86	Article 1 of the draft law is presented by the Government as a modernization and simplification of procedures for the establishment of an enterprise. The intention is, of course, commendable, yet it must resist several questions. The purpose of this article is to replace the windows of the consular chambers, the union for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – USSRAF – and the tax services with a one-stop shop for business formalities. The implementation of this window questions us, because we essentially want it to be dematerialised; It is important not to ignore the millions of French people living without internet connections, not to increase the territorial divide and not to forget the least connected, the most fragile and the most peripheral territories. On the other hand, unless there is a misappreciation, there is still a lack of clarity as to the nature and tasks of this one-stop shop. Procedures should be clarified so that entrepreneurs do not get lost in the way of administration. In summary, your intention seems commendable, but we will express our reservation as to how this article is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u87	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u88	During the examination of this Article 1e r in a special committee, we have had the opportunity to ask you on several occasions about the form that the formalities centres of the companies – CFE – which you wish to create will take. We agree with the idea of this one-stop shop that you wish, but I need clarification on the articulation of this new arrangement with the existing territorial actors, who are, for the most part, extremely well identified by entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs, and who are indispensable to these creators when their project is being developed. We do not understand how the advice prior to the creation and development of the company can be dissociated from the part dedicated to administrative formalities. We also do not understand why, through the creation of this one-stop shop, you want to weaken existing networks and implement a new system, even though these networks have been shaken by a number of recent reforms, beginning with the Act of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act, and the withdrawal of departmental councils or their bodies responsible for economic development. The latter were proximity structures accompanying the local economic fabric, and are only partially replaced by regional arrangements. Today, existing consular networks, in most territories, are able to perform the functions you wish to assign to these new centres; Rather, they should be legitimized, certainly by making them evolve, but also by strengthening the missions they are already carrying out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u89	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u90	Currently, companies are required to complete their formalities – creation, modification and cessation of business – with a network of seven CFEs. This represents 1400 CFEs throughout the country. This creates complexity for businesses and results in significant management costs to complete the approximately 3 million formalities carried out each year in these CFEs. Let's focus on modernity and efficiency! This article will create an electronic one-stop shop. The creation of a business can take place from home, without waiting, without displacement and without duplication of transmission of information. Of course, we ensure in this article that the various bodies currently carrying out CFE's missions retain their expertise in assisting and accompaniment to creators who face obstacles in their online approaches. We ensure that the contractor is not isolated. Similarly, in order to simplify the creation process, pre-installation internships will no longer be mandatory. However, when the need arises or is identified, support for the life of the company will be offered on an optional basis. Yes, the PACTE bill is aimed at micro-entrepreneurs, TPEs and SMEs, in order to remove the obstacles to their growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u91	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u92	We are dealing with Article 1 of Chapter I, entitled "Freed companies". This is indeed an important piece of legislation, which contains many advances that will, I hope, free up growth. Nevertheless, the text is based on the idea that it is enough to free companies and remove a whole series of weights from them. Article 1 gives the impression that companies must be freed, but without the chambers of commerce and industry; It is not a question of paying into the criticism of the single window, even if one could think about the relationship between the company and its territory. The article also makes the pre-installation training optional. Further on, article 13 deals with the adaptation of the offer to new needs, with a formulation, which, according to interpretations, would transform a territorial KIC into a simple antenna. I hope that guarantees will be obtained from the Government on the matter. The new system will unfold without the KICs, without the auditors – a controversy has developed about thresholds, and I believe that the auditors are there to bring security – without the parliamentarians, excluded from the governance of Business France, and, above all, without the state. Indeed, when this law mentions the state, it is to anticipate its withdrawal – from Paris airports, French gaming and ENGIE; Above all, the abolition of the public treasurer removes the control of the Court of Auditors, the text wishing to bring the status of the deposit and deposit fund closer to that of the banks. Why not, but let us not forget that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations is the armed arm of the State in the economy and that, if the Court of Auditors were withdrawn, the money would no longer be public. However, State intervention is necessary. Take the example of article 26 on COI – Initial corner offering. An ecosystem is needed to support the creation of companies that make token calls as part of block chain technologies and to increase their international competitiveness. Therefore, the debate on the release of companies will have to be decided in order to determine the philosophy that drives you on this point. Indeed, companies cannot act alone. They must evolve in an ecosystem. It is necessary to reflect on their role. You yourself, Minister, propose to rethink the place of companies in society by assigning them a social or environmental interest, which is contrary to your desire to remove the regulated natural gas tariff. If a company sells natural gas to individuals at a regulated rate, it does accept the social interest, for the purchasing power of the French, to have a low-cost natural gas. I believe that the text, because of its philosophy based on the liberation of the company, is a good text. However, it should not be considered separately from an ecosystem. We must also reflect on the place of the public authorities and the State in the conduct of this liberation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u93	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u94	With Chapter 1 of the Business Growth and Transformation Bill, we are looking at measures to give greater freedom to business operations. To that end, we can only join, as many of us have reminded us. In our view, freeing businesses is about simplifying their lives. This simplification must range from the process of setting up the company to that of selling or dissolving it. In reviewing the first sections of the bill, we will focus on measures to simplify business start-ups. I repeat that the objective pursued seems to us to be commendable. We all know that many business start-up projects do not only result in the creation of an enterprise, because of the complexity of the procedures in force, but also sometimes – it must be acknowledged – because of the lack of training of the head of the enterprise, which prevents him from grasping the difficulties he will face. On this point, we believe that any future entrepreneur should be trained in the functions he is called upon to occupy. From Article 1, we are very dubious about the possibility of achieving the objective of simplification. Indeed, while replacing a single window with the seven CFE networks is in the right direction, we are concerned about the transformation of CFEs into an electronic window. It will certainly simplify the life of the administration, no doubt not that of the entrepreneurs, who often seek physical support for their efforts. That there is a digital window, we do not object to it, but we believe it is necessary to keep physical windows in order to allow personalized support for entrepreneurs who wish to do so. Throughout the discussion of the text, we will keep in mind that it is the entrepreneur who creates jobs and growth. We must therefore, at every stage of the debate, put ourselves in the place of entrepreneurs and always ask ourselves whether the measures proposed are in the right direction, that of encouraging the creation of jobs and growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u95	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u96	I will confine myself to a few words at the beginning of the examination of Chapter 1 of the text, which aims to simplify the creation of businesses – particularly the exercise of their functions by those who undertake – and to facilitate the development of businesses, and – you have made this point very important, Minister – to offer a second chance to successful entrepreneurs. As many speakers have pointed out, the concern for simplification is shared on all sides of this House. However, several proposed measures are intriguing us, and could even be counterproductive. For example, under the guise of simplification, we could dematerialize procedures at the risk of dehumanizing the council, depriving future entrepreneurs of the skills of a proven network and losing efficiency. This is the case with the electronic one-stop shop which will replace the CFE, as our colleague Gilles Lurton reminded us; This is also the case with the abolition of the compulsory character of the pre-installation traineeship. Finally, I would like to stress one point which I do not think is sufficiently addressed in the text: corporate transmission. The transmission of TPEs and SMEs, particularly in rural areas, is a real challenge for us. If you are interested in it, it is at least as problematic as others, or even more complex. The transmission of enterprises depends on the vitality of many territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u98	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u99	Everything that can facilitate business start-ups is welcome. That seems to be the spirit of the text. It may be thought that the establishment of a one-stop shop for business creation will streamline procedures, free up interest and participation, and facilitate the creation of new businesses every day. However, questions can be raised about the creation of an electronic one-stop shop, some of which do not seem to be optimal. Let us consider all these files filed which will be considered regular and complete – and therefore legally compliant – only when all the bodies receiving them have checked their regularity or assessed their validity, in accordance with their respective tasks. Thus, the acknowledgement of receipt sent by the e-window will not be considered as a legal validation until all the agencies concerned have been able to control the file. Of course, some assurances are needed. Will things be better under this procedure than they currently are? Not necessarily. At the very least, the question can be asked, which explains the concern expressed by some speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u101	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u102	Mr. Minister, you called for reason earlier, but you do not understand that there has been any opposition to the text since this afternoon. However, the reason for its programmed failure – like that of many others adopted since the beginning of the quinquennium – lies in the gap between your speech and reality, which is growing abyssically. Article 1e r is a perfect illustration of this. You promise, under the guise of simplification, transformation and modernisation, to better respond to the stakes of companies, but if we look at the situation in practice, all you promise, these are painful efforts called for by the CFEs, whose consequences will first concern the territories, as close as possible to the companies. Contrary to what one speaker of the majority said earlier, it is impossible to guarantee the preservation of the same quality of advice and proximity for all our companies with fewer people. These efforts you are asking in the territories, if you want to be credible, start by imposing them on your central administration, and let's talk about them again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u103	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u104	Many business starters are repelled by the complexity of the process, in particular by the high number of CFEs. Thus, for the same activity, one can be registered in two CFEs. Providing a single gateway would make life easier for our business starters, both in terms of corporate transmission and in terms of modifying their object. It is always beneficial to have a single access portal. This would also be the case for the attendants. Indeed, chambers of commerce and industry are sometimes lost in this maquis. Of course, in the territories, platforms and consultancy outlets for business start-ups are still needed. Having a single door of entry, dematerialised which is more important, will facilitate the lives of our entrepreneurs as well as that of companies in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u105	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u106	I would like us to take the time, as we did in the special committee, to respond to the questions and concerns raised by the creation of an electronic one-stop shop to deal with business formalities. I would like to reassure Mr Di Filippo: it is with the sense of reason and the improvement of the life of the company that we do so, and in a very concrete way. For my part, I believe – perhaps there is a real divergence between us, Mr Di Filippo, but I accept all the criticisms and differences – that the current situation is not at all satisfactory. It must therefore be improved. Perhaps it is time, when it comes to entrepreneurship, to move into the twenty-first century and not to leave it to a system of formalities which, in my view, is at best in the twentieth century and perhaps even in the nineteenth century, as long as it is dated, complex and unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u107	That's not nice for the regional presidents!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u108	I have taken note of the remarks and questions made by Mr Descoeur and Gilles Lurton in particular. They are well-founded and we will take the time to respond. First of all, let us recall the current situation: 1400 CFE and 3 million formalities for 30% of business start-ups, 55% of changes and 15% of cancellations. Across the country – said to be as concrete as possible – the CFEs receive supporting documents which they must transmit to the following recipient bodies – their listing will make it clear the complexity of the system: the tax services, the social security agencies, the INSEE – for the SIREN directory – the labour inspectorate, the registry of the commercial courts and the chambers of trade and craft. CFEs can be seized in a number of ways: physical filing of the file, transmission by mail or electronic referral. How is the current situation not satisfactory? In answering this question, I will also respond to the comments made by Julien Aubert. First of all, registrants do not always know which CFE they should contact, or which website to use – because there are several. On this point, I do not claim to be a specialist at all, but I have endeavoured to do my job properly by looking at their functioning for several months. To my surprise, I found that there are several websites. Mr Di Filippo, I invite you to consult them – it's surprising, you'll see: vente-entreprises.fr, lautoentrepreneur.fr, CFEnet.cci.fr, cfe.ursaaf.fr, CFE-Metiers.com, infogreffe.fr... How do I get there? The contractor does not know on which website he should register. I think the device is too complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u109	Economic competence must be removed from the regions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u110	Second, the various teleservices do not offer all the formalities, which requires switching from one site to another. Finally, it is not possible to track the status of the applications, leaving them in the most complete blue. I believe that it is time to dematerialize the procedures and improve the transmission of documents between the CFEs, otherwise we will have to face additional costs. My assessment of the system, which is also that of the Government and the majority, does not judge it to be fair or effective. We therefore want to move towards a fully dematerialised system, with the introduction of a single electronic window on 1 January 2021. I would like to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Group of the Republicans: the electronic window opened 1st r on January 2021 – as I said several times during the debates in the special committee, but I will repeat – does not exclude physical advice from the chambers of commerce and industry, which will be maintained for those who wish to have physical contact and advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u111	The chambers of commerce and industry, you deprive them of resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u112	We will discuss it, too. I note, however, once again that the members of the Republican Group accuse us of not reducing public spending sufficiently but of saying "No! As soon as we consider reducing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u113	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u114	The e-window will replace the EFC network and provide an interface between companies and organizations currently receiving their files. In practice, the e-window will provide the Internet user with information on all procedures and formalities. It will receive all of the reporting records. That's still easier than keeping multiple windows and websites, but if that's your preference, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Republicans Group, it's great for you! For our part, we prefer a one-stop shop that concentrates all reporting files. It will also carry out their verification. I also recommend that you introduce yourself to the current procedure. You will find that the CFEs are obliged to transmit all files, they were incomplete. Subsequently, the clerk receives an incomplete file and must return to the company to claim items, resulting in additional delays and delays. In addition, the window will allow the registrant to track the status of his/her file for each of the agencies seized. He will therefore be informed, whereas today, on the contrary, he is in the most complete blur. Finally, the window will provide first-level assistance to users of teleservices. As regards the acknowledgment of receipt, a question which has been asked to me in particular by Bernard Perrut, there are two deadlines today: one relates to the rules specific to the bodies to which it is addressed; the other, of fifteen days, imposes an obligation to transmit the file to the Registrar, even when it is incomplete. We want to change this procedure, which leads to the incomprehension of registrants as they do not know whether their file, transmitted anyway, is incomplete or not. Thus, while giving an uncertainty to the legal value of the receipt of a business start-up file, the procedure leads to cumulation of the deadlines between the CFE and the recipient body. Tomorrow, a deadline of common law will be set for all entrepreneurs who will file their files at the one-stop shop. It's simpler, fairer and more transparent. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So, ladies and gentlemen, while I apologize for having detailed the transformation to a one-stop shop, I confirm that this majority considers the current situation to be unsatisfactory, unfair and penalizing for business starters. The introduction of the one-stop shop on 1 January 2021, a reform with very complex issues, which is not only technical, will simplify the lives of all entrepreneurs in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u115	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 21 and 2089, which aim to delete it. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u116	Minister, let me tell you, you are overdoing the difficulties faced by business starters in the field. No one came to my permanence complaining about living hell on the pretext that he didn't know what CFE was addressing. On the other hand, the people who animate these CFEs bear witness to the importance of physical contact, both to facilitate the formalities of setting up a business and to make a point, face-to-face, on the creator's project. In my electoral district of Montreuil-sur-Mer, in one year, 1000 people came to the CFE, one quarter of them for a business start-up. In this way, 200 entrepreneurs have had physical and concrete contact with the advisers of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who have been able to guide them. As for entrepreneurs, while 79% of them consider the creation of the electronic one-stop shop as a good thing, according to a survey conducted by OpinionWay in June 2018, 94% believe that this window should be accompanied by human support for entrepreneurs. Finally, 48% of business leaders believe that a one-stop shop will increase the risk of administrative error. Overall, they believe that it will mainly facilitate the formalities of large companies, not small ones. So, Minister, because you said that you would listen to the opposition's proposals – be constructive, as I am trying to be – I tabled three amendments, which were co-signed by a large number of Members of the Republican Group. The first is, indeed, an amendment to delete. The second, in retreat, aims to merge the seven CFEs. You say that the situation is complicated, that the declarant does not know which centre to turn to. Let us ensure that each of these business formalities centres is competent for all the companies that address them. Let's train KIC staff so that they can complete the formalities for all companies, even if some of them should not have approached such a desk. Tomorrow, we could have only one CFE, which would solve the problem. Indeed, Mr Minister, I do not blame you so much for wanting to introduce a single procedure, but for abolishing personalized support, this face-to-face essential at the time of setting up a company. Creating a business is an adventure for which, we know very well, business creators are not necessarily armed. They need the advice they are given at the time of this face-to-face. That is why this second amendment, while facilitating the steps taken by entrepreneurs, preserves the possibility of maintaining this physical contact, this face-to-face. As for the third compromise amendment, it is to make the two systems coexist, which already exists, since, as you have pointed out, Mr Minister, some CFEs are already proposing to carry out formalities on-line. It is therefore a matter of maintaining these physical contact points in order to help those entrepreneurs who wish to do so in their efforts and to provide them with the advice they need at this time, while at the same time establishing the unique platform that you call your wishes. That would seem to me to be a very reasonable solution. So, minister, if you're really listening to the field, business leaders – they're speaking in this poll – and the opposition, I'm sure you'll accept one of these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u117	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 2089.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u118	With the same spirit as Daniel Fasquelle, I consulted this week with the CFEs in my constituency, including the services of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who told me how essential personalized accompaniment was. When a business starter completes all the formalities, human contact remains essential and makes it possible to establish more lasting links with the CFE. This risk of losing a personalized accompaniment therefore worries us. That is why we are warning you about this, Minister: will dematerialisation not remove the entrepreneur, who needs advice, from a system that has brought satisfaction, despite the constraints and delays that you have pointed out? If the Single Window is in place, we can only hope to have the assurance that it will bring more and better than in the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u119	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u120	As Mr Fasquelle knows, the extremely important subjects dealt with in Article 1 have been the subject of sometimes passionate debates during the examination in a special committee. This was the reason for the adoption of an amendment which, in particular, confirmed the role of the consular chambers, chambers of commerce and the CCIs in welcoming and advising them. It was important to vote on this amendment, which answers your question, honourable Members. Physical reception is absolutely not threatened by the Single Window since it will be accessible from everywhere: home, Chamber of Trade, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, or even from the network that accompanies the creators. The entrepreneur will therefore be able to benefit from support even before completing the formalities for setting up his business, and then in the development phase of its structure. I therefore suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen, withdraw your amendments because, because of the one we voted in the special committee, the fear you are expressing is not justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u122	I will also make a request for withdrawal because these amendments are satisfied. We listened carefully to Daniel Fasquelle's remarks, supplemented by Bernard Perrut and Arnaud Viala's very constructive remarks. The text has been amended, if not taking back your amendments – sometimes identical – at least their spirit: "A decree in the Council of State designates the single body mentioned above – it is indeed the merger of the CFEs, which you are talking about – defines the conditions for filing the file as well as the arrangements for accompanying and assisting companies by consular bodies and by the single body. That's exactly what you wanted, gentlemen. The same applies to accompaniment, since the text specifies the conditions. We believe in the physical accompaniment, on which Bernard Perrut insisted: it remains entirely possible, by the CCIs. I therefore fully understand your criticisms and proposals, which the current wording of the text satisfies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u123	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u124	Mr Minister, you have pleaded for simplification, but does it always involve dematerialisation? How does the articulation between physics and digital work? Some territories, particularly rural ones, face difficulties in accessing the Internet. In addition, the ecosystem that is now helping to set up a business is disappearing. Employment pool committees disappear; initiative platforms are struggling to maintain themselves. That is why one of my fears, which you have identified, Minister, is the articulation between this dematerialized platform, detached from the territory, and physical reception. What will be the path of creators? How can we prevent some from starting a business when they ignore the regulations to be applied?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u125	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u126	I heard you, minister, but your comments have not convinced me entirely. Indeed, we have no guarantee that the existing CFEs will be maintained and transformed into a single CFE. You tell us that the chambers of commerce will be able to maintain an accompaniment. But they're not alone. Admit that your reasoning is a little hypocritical. In fact, you are strengthening CCI France, necessarily at the expense of the territories. Tomorrow, the chambers of commerce will no longer have the means to maintain a physical reception in the territories. For years, I fought for the Opale Coast Chamber of Commerce to have an establishment, which was not the case. Today, it has greatly improved the lives of business starters and businesses – the CFEs have only a quarter of creators, while the remaining three quarters of visitors bring together companies that need to carry out certain formalities. If you reduce the credit of the chambers of commerce, the credit of my territory will no longer have a physical reception. In these circumstances, keeping the accompaniment largely appears to be a pious wish. Above all, these measures are not being implemented in the finance bill. I therefore do not trust you on this point, unless you give up reducing the appropriations of the chambers of commerce and make it clear tonight that you are maintaining the CFEs either as they exist today or by giving them a broader vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u127	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u128	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u129	Minister, either I don't understand you or we don't understand each other. The path of a business starter begins with a dialogue with economic development technicians, sometimes also with elected officials in charge of the economic sector in the territories. The first step in a project is therefore to assess its validity and viability. This can only happen through a physical exchange with people able to bring a point of view or collect it. The second step is to ensure that the project is presentable. Finally, the final step is the completion of the formalities. Until now, the order was the one I just described. With the change provided for in this article, the path will begin with the third stage, the second stage will only take place after an exchange with an organization requesting additional documents and the first one will never take place since physical contact will have disappeared – that is what we regret. Instead of setting up an organisation ex nihilo, we propose to provide a unique tool dematerialised the formalities centres of existing companies, or some of them, whose expertise in the field to accompany entrepreneurs is recognized. This would be used by the centres and not by single agency staff who would be disconnected from existing structures. It is this point which we do not understand or, more surely, which lacks clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u130	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u131	Perhaps I can't explain myself or perhaps we don't have the same vision of creating businesses as they already do today. When I listen to Mr. Viala, I have the impression that any business starter arrives with tons of documents under his arm to discuss with the CFE. This is not the reality at all: 40% of business creations are carried out in a dematerialized manner, without any physical contact – and this proportion is growing sharply. It is therefore good that dematerialization corresponds to a need. We must not live in the same reality or in the same country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u132	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u133	Those who do so are the people who multiply the companies, so that they do not have to have works councils!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u134	Of the remaining 60%, half takes place through an agent. It is not the head of the company who travels himself to the ICC, but either a lawyer or an accountant who will negotiate directly with the CFE for some 20 cases for which he is responsible. We therefore disagree with the observation: I believe that the movement of dematerialisation and intermediation is already very advanced. I admit that physical contact is maintained for the minority who still cares about it, either, but let us not extrapolate this exception to make it a generality because it does not correspond to the reality of business creation today. Then there will be a representative in the KICs who will be responsible for managing the single website. If you are a business starter, you are based in a rural area and you do not have access to the Internet – which, from you to me, would seem surprising or even contradictory to the very idea of setting up a business, but let us admit – you will go to your CCI – I hope that all the CCIs in France have access to the Internet, otherwise we are really in an outdated world (Sorry) – where the agent will be able to access the site and give advice if you wish. There will be absolutely no difficulty in this. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] My only point of disagreement with you concerns the reduction of the resources of the KICs. Yes, I confirm that we are working on KIC funding – we will have the opportunity to come to it – which will not be based on an assigned tax, but on resources that they will have to find from companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u135	Mr Roland Lescure, in support of Amendment No. 256, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u136	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u137	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u138	I've already defended him. What the bill draws is the dismantling of the public service of business creation in France. Entrepreneurs had access to a network well established in the territories and efficient – chambers of commerce, chambers of commerce, chambers of agriculture. They were taken in hand by the CFEs and well advised, notably through the pre-installation internship – which we will discuss in Article 4. You're destabilizing this network. You have just confessed: you want to save money so you give less money to the CCIs, and probably to the other networks afterwards – it will not be without consequences. As a result, those who had access to free services so far will have to pay for them. That is a matter of concern to us. You justify your measures, in particular the removal of the installation internship or the certification by an auditor below a certain threshold, because of the need to lower the costs of companies. But you don't know their side effect, which is to make business creators pay for advice to make their statement online. The chambers of commerce that gave free advice will make them pay tomorrow and those that made them pay will increase their rates. Very quickly, because the chambers of commerce will no longer be able to provide this service, business starters will have to turn to lawyers, accountants or other professionals, which will make it more complex to start a business and increase its cost. That's what you're putting in place and what we're criticizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u140	Unfavourable notice for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u141	Mrs Valérie Oppelt has the floor to support Amendment No. 2101 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u142	One of the ambitions of the PACTE bill is to contribute to the increase in the number of mid-sized companies in France. But we need to start businesses first. However, 40 per cent of entrepreneurs say they have not received any support to start up their projects, 36 per cent of unaccompanied entrepreneurs say they have not found the right contact and 48 per cent of entrepreneurs feel that strategy and development assistance is inadequate. In addition to the measures to accompany and improve the information of enterprises and entrepreneurs in the creation phase, this amendment aims to inform the entrepreneur, when submitting his file, of the existence of support structures for enterprises – associations and public bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u144	The issue of supporting business start-ups is absolutely essential. You are right to recall that success rates are much higher for the creators who have been accompanied. Only 20% of them are actually accompanied – I am talking not about an internship but about a long-term support, about the preparation of the project – which often evolves on this occasion – until it is developed. We have voted in committee on an amendment clarifying the role of information on business creation and the support that the single window can play with the applicant. Asking the counter to provide a list of organizations that could accompany the applicant seems a bit complicated and falls more within the regulatory field than the law. However, in setting up the window, we will have to look at ways of doing this, if only by referring to a national site that would identify supply in the regions. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment – which does not detract from its relevance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u146	Same opinion as the rapporteur. I invite Mrs Oppelt to withdraw her amendment, which draws attention to an important subject – the Council for Entrepreneurs – and thus responds to the comments made by the Republicans Group, but which falls within the regulatory field. We pledge that this topic will be included in the implementing decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u147	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u148	The principle of informing entrepreneurs at the time of business creation seems important to us. The idea, that you will regularly move forward, of mandatory, set-up information, imposed on the entrepreneur, does not correspond to our state of mind. I support Mrs Oppelt's proposal. However, I would like to stress the value of such information at the close. There are various associations that do outstanding work in commercial courts. The provision of a list of such associations would be useful for entrepreneurs who are experiencing difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u149	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u150	This amendment is intelligent. The obligation to inform does not detract from the freedom of companies – they are free to ask for these structures or not. Our approach to this issue depends on the territories or constituencies from which we come. In a rural area like mine, where established businesses are small and their creators are often poorly informed – even if the information is available online – it is necessary to direct them towards structures. I am often surprised to hear future entrepreneurs tell me that they do not know where to go for financial assistance, advice or regulatory information. The situation is very different in territories where companies may be larger and the profiles of various business starters. I was struck by one element of the thematic rapporteur's reply: why go through Paris, through a large national database to give information that can be found at local level? It's faster for you to be informed of the person around the corner who is likely to help you. It is this human link that allows to structure a course. This raises the question of dematerialization, which leads to the loss of the link with the territory and the intimate knowledge of economic contingencies, opportunities, and the fabric of organizations that can help to create a business, and that are also victims, like the KICs, of reductions in the endowments of certain communities that threaten to make them disappear. My testimony concerns an average city. Perhaps there is another approach in large cities or metropolitan areas. These differences should not be forgotten when determining the formalities for starting a business.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u151	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u152	This amendment is very much in line with what we want. Mr thematic rapporteur, your demonstration was somewhat contradictory to your previous comments on our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u153	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u154	Yes! Mr Minister, contrary to what you think, we have the same vision of things, but there are two worlds in France for business creation: in areas where economic development is facilitated by the density of infrastructure, development strategies, and accompanying devices – which can be part of the private sphere, like incubators – the path of the entrepreneur is more natural than in areas where economic development requires a heavy investment by the local public authority to be present alongside those who want to launch and help them formalize their project and do the necessary studies, but also to retain projects that would be attracted by territories in which the establishment of a company is more natural. If we do not take this into account and make a law that razes everywhere at the same level, we will encourage, I am sorry to say, the desertification of certain parts of the territory. Since I have the floor, I would like to add that we are not hostile to the savings of public money, but that, if the funding of KICs is reformed everywhere in the same way, the effects will be devastating in the territories where these institutions are more necessary than elsewhere, because they fulfil roles that may no longer be necessary to ensure in the same way elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u155	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u156	It's a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u157	Mrs Valérie Oppelt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u158	I withdraw the amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u159	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u160	...but I take note of the commitment to intervene by order-in-council.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u161	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 22 and 2090. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u162	I, in turn, note the contradictions in which the majority is confined. You have just acknowledged, through the previous amendment, that there was a need for accompaniment. However, with articles 1 and 4, you are precisely dismantling the public accompaniment, which has demonstrated its effectiveness, by chambers of commerce and industry and chambers of commerce and crafts. You're in the middle of a contradiction. As a result, on the one hand, you will create a two-speed France. Arnaud Viala is absolutely right: in territories like mine, where the tools that exist elsewhere are not available, the ICC plays an essential role. On the other hand, you will create two-tier companies: there will be entrepreneurs who will be able to afford good advice to be well-accompanied and those who will not be able to afford it. KICs will no longer be able to offer what they previously offered. As far as KICs are concerned, I believe there is a choice to be made between two models. If we continue to concentrate most of the resources in Paris and in the regional capitals, there will be no one on the ground. That's what you're putting in place; In particular, you propose to strengthen CCI France. There is another model, which is, on the contrary, to preserve the remaining resources of the ICCs and deploy them to the territories. Unfortunately, this is not the model you have chosen. Therefore, I see very well what will happen in a few years' time in territories like mine: the ICC will no longer be present; There will be no means available to others or that they can afford to be accompanied properly. That's France you're creating. But we do not want this France; It's a real point of disagreement between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u163	Bravo! I support you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u164	Here...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u165	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 2090.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u166	I fear that dematerialization will be detrimental to our consular chambers, namely chambers of commerce and industry, chambers of commerce and crafts and chambers of agriculture. When you want to start your business, especially in the agricultural field, the first thing you do is to go to the consular chamber to ask for advice. We can also see what the projects are by visiting its site. The role of the consular chambers is first of all to take stock of the project, to answer questions, to inform the stages of business creation. The consular chambers can bring the experience of accompaniment, the complementarity of the skills of the teams of advisers, exchanges with other project promoters and professionals, an advisor who accompanies you in your project and can build with you a personalized training course. If I say all this, Minister, it is because the machine, which certainly allows all its documents to be sent out in a dematerialised way, will never replace human contact. I am thinking in particular of small business creators, farmers who want to start their businesses and need to be accompanied in this process. Of course, the world must adapt to the realities of tomorrow, and your measure can be seen, from this point of view, as progress, but this progress should not weaken our structures, which are essential on the ground. It is clear that the means are increasingly insufficient for our chambers of commerce and industry, our chambers of commerce and crafts and our chambers of agriculture. We feel that we may take one more step in this direction with what you're proposing. This would be serious for our rural areas and for France of the territories to which we are attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u167	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u168	Listening to you sometimes makes me feel like you're...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u169	Reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u170	... decided once and for all that there would be no more accompaniment in rural areas. However, it is quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u171	That's what's going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u172	The guidelines and provisions that we have voted for, in your presence, provide exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u173	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u174	Of course, you have the right not to believe it, but I think you are wrong: accompaniment will continue to exist. The project holder or the entrepreneur who wishes to visit the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the Chamber of Agriculture to which he belongs...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u175	There won't be anyone in the farm rooms anymore! They'll be empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u176	... to be accompanied because he has difficulty accessing the portal or filling out the necessary forms will be able to do so perfectly, in the same way as today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u177	There won't be any more consular chambers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u178	In addition, the portal will offer an additional guarantee in relation to what exists today: it will be accessible everywhere, not only from the seven old networks of business formalities centres – which will have a common language, which is not currently the case – but also in rural areas, including small associations of developers or retired executives accompanying project sponsors. I'm coming to the rural KICs. Do you think equalization is doing well today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u179	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u180	That the most wealthy KICs, who have the most important means, distribute them and distribute them in solidarity in rural areas? Is that how things are going in today's world?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u181	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u182	Yes, it is. We are proposing – we will come back – a better equalization between the KICs...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u183	By taking them back 400 million!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u184	... and, better than that, a state control that will enable the ICCs to be accompanied to territories that may experience difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u185	We're looking forward to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u186	We'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u187	Mr Roland Lescure, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u188	I would remind you that the amendments we are discussing are intended to replace 'is' with'maybe', which would make the e-commerce that we want to generalise for all businesses in order to simplify their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u189	We'll see if it simplifies their lives!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u190	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The committee's opinion on these two amendments is unfavourable, because this one-stop shop is at the heart of this bill, which, let us not forget, aims to simplify the lives of businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u191	"Maybe," it's the equivalent of "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u192	After this two-fold unfavourable opinion of the Commission, what is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u193	That's a triple unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u194	Only one would have been enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u195	I would not like to allow any misconceptions about the KICs to develop – the thematic rapporteur spoke of gold. We will have a debate on the KICs. I received the presidents of all the IABs in July to talk to them about the transformation of the IABs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u196	They're not happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u197	They're very worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u198	Maybe they weren't happy, but they applauded our reform project. Why? Because the presidents of CCI, who are entrepreneurs, are fully aware of the need to transform themselves, evolve, not stay the two feet in the same hoof by continuing to spend the taxpayer's money without leading, in view of this, a transformation of the KICs. The territorial cohesion minister, Jacques Mézard, and I have received the presidents of all rural KICs, including Cantal, Gers and Creuse, and I will continue to see and receive them. Go ask them what they thought about our exchanges. For my part, I believe that the current situation is not satisfactory for rural KICs, as the thematic rapporteur has pointed out very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u199	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u200	I agree with the presidents of rural KICs that equalization is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u201	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u202	I am elected from a rural territory and have been Minister of Agriculture for three years. So they know they can count on me to defend rural KICs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u203	Hand on heart...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u204	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u205	You understand the criticism made to you, Minister, about the consular network, i.e. the KICs, the chambers of commerce and the chambers of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u206	For sure, I get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u207	With this text, you confirm their progressive asphyxiation, without having defined their future missions or means. I give you the example of a rural CCI, Mr.Minister, that of the Ardèche: in 2017, it disposed of €3 million in tax resources; In 2021, following your decisions, it will have 900000 euros. I am myself a small entrepreneur, and I could rejoice: "Great! One less charge! In fact, this reduced burden will, on average, amount to EUR 100 per national. It is a very small benefit in view of the many disastrous consequences. For, what will happen when a KIC sees its tax resource increase from EUR 3 million to EUR 900000? It will stop putting up the files for the FISAC – Fund of intervention for services, crafts and commerce – ; it will stop accompanying companies in difficulty; It will stop investing – let's not forget that KICs are actors of daily investment in our territories. By weakening the consular network at the heart of the territories, you are therefore taking the risk of weakening employment, weakening the TPEs, which are, as we know, the source of jobs in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u208	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u209	I'm going to talk to you about a territory that you know very well, Minister, by referring to the CCI of the Dieppoise region, which is breaking this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u210	We're talking about the one-stop shop!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u211	We're in Article 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u212	The Bresle Valley, with the Glass Valley – the gleaming industrial flagship – turned to the Somme, and the country of Bray turned to the wheely metropolis. I believe that your decision to asphyxiate the KICs, strangle them, to empty them of their substance, will lead, in economic terms, to the phenomenon which we are witnessing in terms of territorial organization: a metropolization of the response and, therefore, to the abandonment of entire parts of the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u213	Once again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u214	I am a Member of Parliament for an electoral district where industry accounts for 24% of GDP. In this territory, we marry all the pride of the French industry: the automotive flagship with Alpine, the mechanical flagship with Gault Industries – whose representatives you met at the launch of the PACTE bill – the aeronautics, the flax industry, the energy sector – which is not nothing in Normandy. With the CCI's bottlenecks, the economic response will, like the public response now, be focused only on the Rouen metropolis – and I am not talking about FISAC, which will find it difficult to irrigate the country of Bray from Rouen. This will condemn our territories to become bronze-ass for tired Parisians – I have already used this formula; I have been told that it is abrupt – that is, areas of relegation where it is good to live, where it is pleasant to do tourism, where you can sunbathe, some years, several times a year. However, the inhabitants of these territories want to live there all year round. We might find it unusual for a Communist MP to defend the CCIs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u215	Let's say, paradoxical!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u216	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the Socialist and related group]] ... but I think we need, in our territories, all the public responses, including KICs, which are at the expense of companies and would have been able, in a way, to set up the one-stop shop that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u218	I'm not far from agreeing...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u219	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u220	I would be the happiest of men to have a long discussion about the Bresle Valley, and I have the same admiration as you, Mr. Jumel, for the Glass Valley, which I have visited on several occasions. I love the country of Bray, absolutely wonderful, and the aviation industry. However, in this case, we are talking about the one-stop shop for business creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u221	I didn't miss it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u222	If we start, on every amendment to each article, in major demise on territorial development and the KICs, we will find it difficult to reach the end of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u223	You drown the fish, but it's still moving!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u224	Once again, the issue of metropolization, rural areas and the role of the ICC is a real debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u225	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u226	But I'm afraid we're going to rush things a little bit by starting a debate right now, which should normally take place next Friday. At the rate we are going, it will not take place on Friday: it will be postponed to the Greek calends. I would therefore prefer that we concentrate today on the amendments relating to the Single Window.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u228	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u229	Let us return, if you wish, to the two amendments under discussion, but I do not very much like that our amendments should be ridiculed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u230	I didn't make them ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u231	Not you, Minister, but the rapporteur-general. These amendments have been considered and considered. This is one of the three proposals I made earlier: let us coexist and coexist the digital platform you want to create and the business formalities centres. Again, I do not believe that this would complicate the lives of companies and that these amendments are irrelevant. As for the debate we have opened on the KICs, it is because it is necessarily linked to this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u232	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u233	I fought in my territory for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to set up a business formality centre, and that changed everything because I saw a number of associations and organizations coming around and helping to set up a business in addition to what the ICC can do. But tomorrow, by abolishing this CFE, you are actually going to eliminate the ICC's presence in my territory, and all those that it had been able to attract are bound to leave sooner or later. Everything is actually really very related. But I come to ask myself whether Bercy is not behind all this and whether the real reason is not to simplify business life but to make savings: by removing the CFEs, you will be able to cut as you want in CCI budgets because they will no longer have to keep these staff in the territories. If you really want to make business easier, keep this support, free of charge throughout the country, which companies absolutely need. Mrs Oppelt said earlier: of the unaccompanied companies, 50% disappeared within six years of their creation, only one third of the others. There is therefore a need for support throughout the national territory. It is a public service to which I am attached and which you will unfortunately dismantle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u234	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u235	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1241.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u236	With respect to the one-stop shop, you state in paragraph 9, Minister, this – unchanged in the text of the commission –: "This file is filed electronically with a single agency designated for this purpose. But the digital divide exists, network failures too, and some people prefer the tangibility of paper – in addition, it doesn't cost much. You said earlier that you preferred physical accompaniment, referring to the 40% of dematerialised steps and the 30% of steps taken by the agent, but there is still 30%. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to provide for the option of paper format in such a way as to leave the choice to entrepreneurs, or the possibility when they have no other option of using this medium.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u238	The vote on this amendment would cast doubt on the whole interest of the electronic portal. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u240	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u241	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u242	To hear you, Mr Thematic Rapporteur, my amendment would call into question almost the whole bill! But what do you do with the 30% who currently prefer to take their file under the arm and go physically to the organization concerned? I also come from a rather rural territory, the Vosges, where we sometimes have problems with the internet and network difficulties, and where it is easier to take his car – despite the limitation of 80 kilometers per hour and despite the price of diesel – to file his file directly. But you shut the door to these people. It's really reductive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u243	You can also restore the directories in paper format to make it easier for them to call!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u244	I have before me three amendments, Nos 627, 2098 and 628, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 627 and 2098 are identical. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 627.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u245	Since Mr. Lescure invites us to talk about the technical aspect of the subject, I am at risk of a bit of irony: I hope that this one-stop shop, as you describe it, without giving us the details of how it will be connected to the existing device, will not have the same fiasco as the previous one, a fiasco under which we still find ourselves: I mean the NTA, the National Secure Securities Agency. The arguments were about the same – you had to simplify, dematerialize, remove the physical reception desks – and after a few months of operation, it was clearly – pass the word – the brothel, a brothel organized at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u246	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u247	Kind of like the state service!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u248	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 2098.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u249	Everyone knows that the greatest difficulty when you start your business is loneliness. This is, in any case, what emerges when looking for the reasons for concern of future entrepreneurs. Solitude is often a cause of failure at the launch, because the person was not sufficiently accompanied; We initially have doubts, we do not know everything, and it is not only by completing formalities on a screen that we will have the desired support and advice. In keeping with our previous amendments, I propose that the role of the consular chambers and the places closest to the reality of the ground be maintained so that the artisans, farmers, all the men and women who set up their businesses can carry out all the formalities which are theirs by being accompanied. When you go to the sites of the chambers of agriculture, the chambers of trade and crafts or the chambers of commerce and industry, you can find the section: "How to start your business? And if creating it naturally involves having a project and financing, and answering a number of questions, there are of course the declaratory formalities: "Come and declare all this to us, to the business formalities center, where we are waiting for you and where we are accompanying you", the consular chambers indicate. There is therefore a global approach, from the consideration of the person who comes with his project – and why not with his file under his arm if he has doubts, need explanations, support – until, some time later, his registration. It is for this notion of advice and accompaniment that we are fighting, as you will have understood, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the possible evolution of the registration procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u250	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 628.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u251	Defended, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u252	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u253	In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you confirm your desire that the consular chambers remain a point of support and advice for creators. That is exactly the subject of the amendment that we have adopted in committee. Therefore, your amendments are satisfied and I request that they be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u255	Same argument as the commission. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion would of course be unfavourable. I really think they're satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u256	Mr Viala, Mr Perrut, do you withdraw your amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u257	No, Madam President, we're keeping them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u258	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 844.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u259	In order to simplify business start-ups, Article 1 makes the use of a single digital window mandatory by 2021. The objective remains to achieve savings – €23 million per year thanks to the effects of mutualisation and scale if I believe the figures given to us. In line with this logic, Minister, the Government has refused to commit itself to the public nature of the organization that will be set up in this way. You said in committee not to exclude the use of a private operator under public control. It does not seem sound to us to entrust to this type of operator a mission which falls within the competence of the public authority to guarantee the maintenance of a service whose importance is just recalled, in order to guarantee equal treatment, neutrality, adaptability and mutability of the device, in accordance with the basis of the French concept of public service. We therefore propose to clarify that the one-stop shop will be a public body.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u260	A useful precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u262	Mr Dharréville, this body will of course be under the responsibility of the State. Knowing how it will be managed today is in my opinion premature. An information mission is working on the subject. It has not yet completed its work and we will draw conclusions at the appropriate time. But it seems to me quite obvious that this window is under the responsibility of the State. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u263	We're being asked to sign a blank check!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u265	I would like to reassure Mr Dharréville that the window will be under public control. But I cannot guarantee that the operator himself will be public. I would point out that the clerks of the commercial courts are under private status, but obviously under the control of the public authorities. I think it would be dishonest for me to commit myself now to the quality of the operator, who may be public or perhaps private, but he will in any case remain, I repeat, under the control of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u266	It's not a sufficient guarantee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u267	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u268	However, it is worrying, Mr Minister, to see a rampant privatisation of the single window because, because of its uniqueness, it will have private information, and it is therefore difficult to imagine that public control is not at least tight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u269	That is indeed disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u270	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u271	[[Smile]] I wouldn't want you to have any worries at midnight that could then give you insomnia or even nightmares.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u272	Knowing him, it's gonna happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u273	You are talking about privatization, but let's talk about the reality: there are already private clerks in the CFEs, which does not prevent the whole system from being under public control. It will be the same in the future, rest assured. I only said that the operator as such could eventually be private – under public control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u274	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1239 and 2062. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 1239.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u275	Minister, I was somewhat surprised in committee that it was not clear how the one-stop shop was going to work. You had told me what you have just said to my colleagues, also referring to the mission that is working on the subject and saying that we were going to see, that the public interest grouping hypothesis was not excluded. Anyway, we don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u276	Suspend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u277	We don't vote knowingly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u278	You will understand that I find it premature, in these circumstances, to debate the matter at this stage. [[Smile]] By the way, we have lost a lot of time on Article 1e r while, between us, it has nothing revolutionary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u279	We agree, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u280	[[Smile]] The only problem is technical: there are seven networks not necessarily compatible, which will cause some problems compared to the one-stop shop. Therefore, it is too early to propose such a mechanism, since we do not know how to mount it. Having said that, I repeat, I find it wrong for my colleagues to make a whole story about the one-stop shop: at worst, if it doesn't work, we will continue to talk to the five existing operators, that's all. I withdraw my amendment to make you happy and save you some time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u281	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u282	We saw him coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u283	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2062.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u284	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u285	I call Mrs Bessot Ballot to support Amendment No. 1545.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u286	I do not entirely agree with the colleague who said that companies were not complaining, when we heard a request for simplification, efficiency and pragmatism. Our majority was elected in this context. That is what Article 1 responds to, and the reason why I propose, by this amendment, to name the "house of the economy" the future window, which will make it a real benchmark for businesses and can only add to the efficiency of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u288	The houses of the economy are a nice idea, except that this name is already used in many places.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u289	But yes: it already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u290	It sometimes refers to CCIs, sometimes territorial CCIs, the regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry – CCIR – or chambers of commerce. These are often spaces in which many structures or institutions intended to act for the development of our enterprises are grouped together. Even if this is a good idea, the committee would therefore, if it were not withdrawn, be against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u292	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u293	Dear colleague, do you maintain or withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u294	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u295	I have before me nine amendments, Nos 66, 584, 953, 1531, 1955, 1971, 1820, 1486 and 1240, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 66, 584, 953, 1531, 1955 and 1971 are identical. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u296	If I have listened carefully to what has been said about him, I have not yet spoken on Article 1. Minister, if I can understand your wish and your concern for simplification, we are in the middle of the ford. Indeed, we simplify by removing CFEs. Why not? Such a removal is indeed deliberate: you simply say, and not in words covered, that this mission will no longer be entrusted to the chambers of commerce and industry and that – which is already more difficult to hear – you want to reorganize their financial resources. What's special about section 1, minister, is that you stay in the middle of the ford. Of course, you are displaying a simplification measure by creating a one-stop shop – including an act – but it does not prevent, as Charles de Courson has just pointed out, that all formalities must be dealt with by the other five operators. Either you impose inter-network compatibility, in order to simplify formalities for businesses, or you leave the same difficulty, again and again. So, in this case, you cannot talk about simplification. Through this amendment, I would like to highlight the legal risk created by the provision, Minister. Indeed, it may be considered that, as soon as a click has been made, the company concerned is in fact created or transformed. However, other organizations must take into account and validate the transaction, that is, they must attest that the formalities in question have been rigorously completed and that they correspond to expectations. We therefore propose, in order to guarantee the legal certainty of the system, that the filing of a declaration should be "only where the file is regular and complete in the light of the rules applicable to the formalities to be carried out with all the recipient bodies concerned. This means that the company's status – i.e. its creation, changing its situation or discontinuing its activities – can only be deemed to be validated when all the other organizations have given their approval. Otherwise, I repeat, you would create a legal vacuum. This proposed amendment does not call into question what I said earlier about the KICs and your vision of the organization you intend to create.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u297	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 584.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u298	It is in line with what our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz has just explained in great detail. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the acknowledgement of receipt of a file is not regarded by the declarant as a validation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u299	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 953.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u300	This is an amendment on which we have worked with the chambers of trades and crafts: we must not hide behind his little finger. The purpose of this editorial amendment is to legally secure the effects of an electronic filing of files, by clarifying the decree referred to in paragraph 11. It is indeed important that all the bodies receiving a file – tax services, the USSRAFs, social funds, trade registers and business and company registers – be able, in accordance with their tasks, to monitor their regularity or assess their validity so that it is deemed to be regular and complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u301	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1531.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u302	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u303	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1955.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u304	In the same spirit, the aim of this amendment is to secure the effects of the electronic filing of the single file. It is indeed important that all bodies be able to validate the formalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u305	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1971.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u306	This amendment is obviously in the same spirit as all those in the series. I would just add that the electronic one-stop shop, which will serve as an interface between the formalities centres of companies and the companies themselves, is a good idea, even if it is not as new as we would like to believe. Already in 2009, Hervé Novelli, in charge of trade, crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u307	Excellent minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u308	... had signed the agreement to launch a one-stop shop for business start-ups. I can tell you that there are still a few questions. The creation of this one-stop shop should not, first of all, be an opportunity to further reduce administrative staff to a one-stop shop – outdated, dehumanized, and not offering depositaries any interlocutors – that would be unable to cope with the flow of requests and therefore would waste more time for our entrepreneurs than the existing windows. To this fear is added another. Of course, the one-stop shop must save our entrepreneurs time, but it should not be an opportunity to call the public service: that is why I propose that the filing only be valid "when the file is regular and complete in the light of the rules applicable to the formalities to be carried out with all the recipient bodies concerned. » With this amendment, I would like companies not to be left between two administrative steps in a dangerous legal blur: that is why I would like to clarify the conditions under which, with this one-stop shop, the company declaration would be considered valid.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u309	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1820.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u310	I will not be long, because this amendment is in line with what several of our colleagues have put forward. The aim is to propose that the dossiers be considered legally compliant only when all the supervisory bodies, in their different areas of competence, verify their regularity. An acknowledgement of receipt sent by the electronic single window can hardly be regarded as a legal validation if the file has not been checked by the ad hoc bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u311	I call Mr Terlier to support Amendment No. 1486.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u312	This is a precise amendment. A concern arose, inter alia, from the drafting of article 1, paragraph 9, which provides that the deposit "shall be deemed to be a declaration with the consignee as long as it is regular and complete with respect to the consignee". A clarification must be given by the Minister, which he will not fail to do: it cannot be considered that a dossier is complete once it has been tabled. Today, in order for a case to be validated and a company to have legal personality, it must be registered in the register of commerce and companies, with rights and obligations for it. It is therefore necessary to specify, by means of this amendment or the explanations of the Minister, that the mere deposit, when the company is set up or changes in its situation, will not validate the registration and therefore will not give legal personality: it is after the examination of the file that the rights of the company can be established through registration in the register of commerce and companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u313	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1240.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u314	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u315	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u316	We have discussed this issue on numerous occasions in the Special Committee. When a business starter registers on the portal, he receives an acknowledgement that he has submitted the file, but this does not mean that it is regular and that its completeness has been fully verified by the various bodies concerned. Thanks to the one-stop shop, all partners – the Chamber of Trade, the ICC, tax services, the USSRAF – will be provided with documents corresponding to their criteria. They must then be validated by the various bodies. When the validation of all the bodies has been notified through the single portal, the file is definitively validated. It is also important to make it clear that the entrepreneur, by connecting to the portal, will be able to follow all the steps of the file's instruction. These considerations led the committee to adopt an amendment to paragraph 9, which is now worded as follows: "This dossier is filed electronically with a single body designated for this purpose. Such deposit shall be deemed to be a declaration with the consignee concerned as long as it is regular and complete in respect of the consignee concerned. The committee is therefore against this series of amendments, because this text has responded to your concern, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u318	Same opinion as that of the thematic rapporteur. Again, I want to reassure Members – whether they are members of the Republican Group, Mrs Ménard or others – who have expressed concerns about the one-stop shop and, above all, the acknowledgement of receipt. First of all, I would point out that the current situation is not satisfactory since the file, transmitted by the CFE and received by the Registrar, may be incomplete for two reasons: either because the CFE did not appreciate its completeness sufficiently finely, or because it is obliged, at the end of the 15-day period I mentioned earlier, to transmit it even though it is incomplete. This means that the person or principal who filed the file will then receive a notice from one or more receiving agencies that the file is incomplete. Such a procedure creates confusion or even misunderstanding in the registrant. We want to change this acknowledgment system – this has been explained at length in the special committee, but I prefer to go back to it, because it is an important subject. We first give it a legal basis, enshrined in the code of relations between the public and the administration: article L. 112-11 of this code will frame the receipt device by electronic means. What is going to happen very concretely? First, you will submit your file to the electronic single window, which will initially perform a check of its formal completeness. This is to ensure that all required documents have been provided. Until this is the case, the electronic window will not be able to validate the filing of the file. Next, the teleservice will issue a simple registration accused, which will aim to inform the depositary that his file has been filed, that it is complete and that it will be sent to the various administrative departments. After that, the receiving bodies will issue the acknowledgement of receipt on the site, each of them filling in the box provided for this purpose. A green light will then be activated as the file is validated by each of them. The enormous advantage of this system is that the applicant will be able to follow the evolution of his file as he becomes aware of the validation by each of the organizations concerned, whereas today he does not know what is happening and does not understand why he does not receive the final green light. It is therefore simpler, safer and faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u319	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u320	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. However, I would have two supplementary questions. First, if the file is deemed complete, is a response period imposed on the various organizations? Secondly, the legal certainty must take precedence, is it clearly stated in the acknowledgement of receipt that in no case is it valid and exempts subsequent formalities? That it is the simple registration of a file and not the validation of the creation of a company? It would be important to clarify things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u321	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u322	The shade is indeed of size and I confirm that it is not worth it. As for time limits, the bill does not change those already set by the various administrations concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u323	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u324	As a result of the explanations given by the rapporteur and the minister, I withdraw Amendment No 1486.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u325	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 286 and 2106. I call Mr Daniel Fasquelle to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u326	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u327	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 2106.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u328	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u329	I call Mrs Bessot Ballot to support Amendment No. 1544.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u330	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In my constituency, we organized a legislative workshop. Although we explained that we should not be reluctant to change, there was still some concern. The agreement we have found is to offer future entrepreneurs, once the registration has been validated, the possibility to schedule a physical appointment with the designated single organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u332	Unfavorable notice: it is the consular chambers that are responsible for welcoming the entrepreneur – or any association whose vocation is to accompany business leaders, such as France Active, Réseau Entreprendre or others. By definition, the portal is accessible from anywhere. The organization itself cannot receive people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u333	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 611.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u334	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u335	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 629 and 2103. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 629.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u336	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u337	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 2103.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u338	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u339	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u340	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u341	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 843.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u342	As a follow-up to the amendments aimed at making electronic filing optional, it is a matter of providing for derogations from such an obligation. This would be in line with the 8 million people in our country who do not have an internet connection or are not "agility" with digital tools. While many entrepreneurs complain about the cumbersome administrative procedures surrounding the creation of a business, many also regret not being able to meet physically with an interlocutor. The dematerialization of approaches does not always address this essential concern. That is why, through this amendment, we invite you to make arrangements so that no one is excluded from the possibility of setting up their own business.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u344	If I understand your concern that everyone is in a position to start their business and if it is true that some people can combine the handicaps – no internet, no means of locomotion – one can still imagine that the person concerned has a phone; In this case, it may call the consular chambers or an association which works for economic development and accompanies the project promoters, which will allow it to make contact with them. In any event, the file will be filed electronically. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u346	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u347	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u348	Just a word to go in the direction of this amendment. I repeat what I said in the general discussion: it is important to care about people who do not have an internet connection, as it is important to care about the most marginalized, the most peripheral territories. Yet behind the one-stop shop is the danger of a widening of the territorial divide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u349	Yes! We must not forget that there are not any efficient digital infrastructures everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u350	I have before me a series of identical amendments, Nos 23, 451, 585, 1956 and 2042. I call Mr Daniel Fasquelle to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u351	The aim is to legally secure the effects of electronic filing of business formalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u352	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 451.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u353	It is indeed a matter of distinguishing between the acknowledgement of receipt of the file and the validation of it – which, if I have understood correctly, will continue to be carried out by the various administrations: Directorate-General for Public Finance for tax procedures, USSRAF for social procedures. The purpose of this amendment is to avoid confusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u354	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 585.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u355	Article 1e r does not provide for the control of files filed by recipient bodies such as the tax services or the USSRAF. However, acknowledgment of receipt sent by the e-window as a legal validation would be a source of legal uncertainty. That is why it seems essential that all the bodies to which it is addressed should be able to assess the validity and legal regularity of the files submitted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u356	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1956.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u357	This is a precise amendment. The acknowledgement of receipt sent by e-mail is a certificate of registration. It must not be able to be considered by the registrant as a legal validation, until all the bodies have been able to control the file. Paragraph 11 of the article should clarify this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u358	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2042.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u359	The decree, which will specify the rules for the application and operation of the single window, must indicate which authorities and bodies are to receive the company's file and who will control it. Why? First, to make this window transparent; then, so that in case of problems companies know to which authorities and bodies turn. Once again, the digital transformation of the French administration must be at the service of companies, not the other way round, with real pedagogy and support from the administration to the French TPEs and SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u360	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u361	I would remind you that paragraph 11 was adopted following a discussion in a special committee. An amendment to clarify its wording is about to arrive. Clarification would indeed be necessary, but not in the way you propose it. The different bodies have their own control arrangements. There is no question of changing them. The decree will only concern the verification of the completion of the file by the one-stop shop, i.e. a first-level check. The declarant will naturally be informed of the progress of these checks. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u363	Same opinion. I do not want any ambiguity, Mrs Louwagie, Mr Fasquelle: we are not changing the rules for validation by the various bodies concerned. Don't worry: dematerialization will only affect the procedure; validation systems will remain exactly the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u364	I call Mr Roland Lescure to support Amendment No. 2124.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u365	This is the clarification amendment I have just mentioned, which is intended to replace "one-stop shop" with "one-stop shop", which is the term used in the rest of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u367	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u368	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u369	This is still an important clarification, since the one-stop shop already exists, since the business formalities centres are one-stop shops. I therefore support this amendment. I have a question for the minister. The statement shall be made on the single platform and the declaration shall be communicated to the various competent bodies; These will then be addressed directly to the registrant, who will therefore be required to contact each of them. In terms of simplification, we cannot say that the procedure is extraordinary... Maybe we go back to the single platform? Could you clarify this important point, which I did not understand during the debates in the special committee, Mr Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u370	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u371	It's the counter that will act as an intermediary, Mr. Member of Parliament. Once the file is filed at the counter, a receipt is issued, which is itself a document different from the acknowledgement of receipt – the legal rules have been clearly defined on this point. This counter then forwards the file to the organizations concerned, which return it to the counter which finally returns it to the applicant. The role of a window, which serves as an intermediary, will be performed by a public or private operator – we have already answered this question – but under the control of the State. The applicant will therefore have a single contact person, but will be able to follow the evolution of his file in real time with each of the organizations, which will light the green light on each of the steps taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u372	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2489.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u373	This amendment tends to provide information on self-assessment tools for business starters at the time it is created online. These tools already exist, in particular on the KIC and Pôle emploi store. The idea here is to encourage entrepreneurs to use them by facilitating access, for example via a link.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u374	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u375	The idea of allowing entrepreneurs to self-assess themselves, particularly on their management capabilities, is clearly interesting, but the measure is not in the field of law. I therefore suggest that the amendment be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u376	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u377	The same opinion: I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u378	Do you maintain the amendment, Mrs Motin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u379	No, Madam President, I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u380	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 386 and 435. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 386.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u381	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u382	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 435.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u383	Defended as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u384	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 666.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u385	The aim of this consistency amendment is to incorporate a definition existing in the regulatory part of the Commercial Code. The bill inserts a new section that lists all categories of business papers of a company while omitting the term "correspondences". Its preponderance within an undertaking justifies reference to it as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u386	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u387	[[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, my dear colleague, I extend to you our congratulations and our best wishes for joy and happiness. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u388	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u389	[[Same movements]] The honourable Member has just had a baby: it is for this reason that the rapporteur congratulated her. This will be the birth gift of the Government: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u390	[[Smile]] If we have to do little ones to pass on amendments, now...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u391	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 631.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u392	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u393	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor to support Amendment No. 2125.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u394	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u395	[[Smile]] Mrs Do's amendment falls: they are not twins!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u396	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor to support Amendment No. 2036.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u397	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u398	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 668.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u399	The purpose of this amendment is to make the text more readable by retaining the term "individual records of information", known to the Chambers of Industry and Commerce and used in the Code of Commerce. By replacing this term with "individual information", the draft law does indeed engulf the legal meaning for the KICs. I therefore propose to re-establish the existing wording in order to ensure the lexical consistency of the commercial code, but also to avoid errors of interpretation on the part of the KICs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u400	[[Smile]] They're twins, Mr. Dufrègne, but not triplets!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u401	I have before me two amendments, Nos 632 and 633, which can be presented together. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u402	They're both defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u403	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 2252.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u404	[[Smile]] I am taking on an important task entrusted to me by André Chassaigne, who has no doubt for a moment that this amendment has been adopted. This statement, Madam President, will also be worth defending Amendment No 845, which has the same purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u405	I take note of that, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u406	The aim of these amendments is to ensure that the formalities centres remain within the competence of the agricultural consular network for agricultural enterprises. The chambers of agriculture already act as a one-stop shop by assigning a unique identification number and managing all related formalities, such as the register of agricultural funds. They also ensure what is lacking in your device, i.e. a personalized accompaniment, adapted to the difficulties encountered by farmers. The bill does not provide any added value in this area. We therefore propose the deletion of the paragraphs concerning the agricultural consular network.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u407	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u408	We have already had this debate with other amendments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u409	[[Smile]] You're putting me in trouble with my group president!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u410	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u411	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u412	Amendment No 845 has already been defended by Mr Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u413	I have before me two amendments, Nos 634 and 635, which can be presented together. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u414	These amendments are intended to delete paragraphs 29 and 34 respectively. The agricultural consular network must retain the competence of CFE for the undertakings concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u415	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 636.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u416	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u417	Mr Denis Sommer, in support of Amendment No. 2795, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u418	Coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u419	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor to support Amendment No. 2126.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u420	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u421	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 637.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u422	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u423	I have before me an amendment No 2579 which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 2843 and 2839. The minister has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u424	The aim of this amendment is to take into account the remarks made by Mr Fasquelle, among others, in the Special Committee. The introduction of the Single Window on 1 January 2021, we observed, is not without risks: a transitional period should be foreseen in case of difficulties. An interdepartmental inspection mission made the same observation. While advocating the establishment of the system on 1 January 2021, she considered it wise, like several members of the special committee – and I repeat, Daniel Fasquelle: let us give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar – to maintain the possibility of a physical deposit in the CFE until 2023. That is what this amendment is about. The electronic one-stop shop will be operational on January 1, 2021, but for three years, until 2023, contractors will retain access to an EFC and will be able to physically file their files. This transition period will enhance the security of the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u425	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of sub-amendment No. 2843, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u426	I'm having a little trouble following you, Minister. Little progress has been made on a unique dematerialized tool for business creation that you are reversing by delaying its implementation in 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u427	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u428	How can we explain that it takes five years to create a dematerialized tool? Perhaps you have been cooled by the big flop of the "grey card in one click"? We can certainly learn from the mistakes of the past; But, if I understand correctly, the consular chambers, which see their tax resources severely amputated by the Government, will have to carry out their tasks in the area we are talking about until 2023. All this is not very clear; We also propose to put forward the date of entry into force of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u429	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support sub-amendment No. 2839.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u430	This sub-amendment aims to clarify that the single portal will be fully operational by 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u431	What is the Committee's opinion on the Government's amendment No. 2579?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u432	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u433	What is the Committee's opinion on sub-amendment No 2843?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u434	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u435	What is the Government's opinion on this sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u436	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u437	What is the Government's opinion on sub-amendment No. 2839?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u438	Favourable. Forgive me for taking the floor at this late hour, but that is to reassure Mr Brun. I repeat, the dematerialized Single Window will be fully operational on 1 January 2021. Simply, for safety, we spare – at your request, I would like to remind you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u439	It wasn't me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u440	...the possibility of filing his file otherwise until 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u441	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u442	[[Smile]] Thank you, Minister, for listening to the opposition on this point. We finally come to what I had proposed from the beginning of our exchanges, that is, the coexistence between the physical CFE, which is maintained, and your electronic platform. It is a pity that this situation ends in 2023, but there will be elections in 2022: we will see who will then decide the final fate of the CFE! We will at least have saved some time to maintain the physical CFEs – which we believe are indispensable, you understand. Of course, we will vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u443	I have before me two amendments on the additional article after Article 1. Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 2180.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u444	Under this amendment, the receipt of the company's statutes by a recognized professional could immediately confer legal personality on the company. The idea is to go much faster by relying on a third of confidence, belonging to a regulated profession, and under the responsibility of which all subsequent formalities will be carried out. This would save a lot of time: between signature and registration at the registry, which confers legal personality, often takes several weeks. This would also increase efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u445	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u446	Although the logic of this is well understood, the amendment nonetheless calls into question the monopoly of the clerks of the commercial courts on this activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u447	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u448	It is, in any case, the way we read it. I do not think that is a good idea. The assessment of the work of the clerks indicates that it is good or even excellent: the clerks perform their duties perfectly. At the very least, it would be necessary to assess the measure and to organize a consultation before going further in this direction. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u449	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u450	This is a very interesting idea, Mr Mattei, very clever, to say the least, and a real source of simplification; I'm very happy to recognize him. However, your amendment poses a real problem: you do not anticipate any prior information from third parties regarding the formation of a legal personality, which may have an effect on the property rights of third parties, i.e. creditors. Touching property rights without prior information exposes them to the risk of unconstitutionality. I sincerely believe that unconstitutionality would be pronounced if the amendment were adopted. I therefore suggest that you withdraw it; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u451	Do you maintain your amendment, Mr Mattei?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u452	Mr rapporteur, there is no question of calling into question the work of the Registrars. Simply put, the amendment would immediately make companies operational, which would save a lot of time. The trusted third party – whatever it is, as long as it is a recognized professional – would bear all the consequences of the possible failure to complete the formalities. Once the registration number has been obtained – and it can be obtained very quickly via the Internet – the contractor would immediately be operational. We can already create a company via the Internet, thanks to various high-performance tools; the measure that I propose is directed at the entrepreneurs – who, as I have often said, carry out an act that has nothing to do with annoyance, a serious act that engages them – who would trust a professional. It is not a question of recreating any kind of monopoly; the two possibilities coexist. Since the statutes have a certain date, we will not be able to go back. I would find it a pity to miss a simplification and acceleration based on the intervention of trusted third parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u453	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u454	I support this excellent amendment. A business starter needs his Kbis and his SIRET in the day or so. In some countries, the equivalent is obtained in 24 hours, perhaps even online, and there is no need to cite examples. A restorer who starts to work needs to provide these items to his banker very quickly, if only to have a credit card payment terminal. With this amendment, professionals take responsibility for the creation of a business, including with regard to third parties. So they won't be able to do anything: they won't issue a certificate if they're not sure they have all the parts in hand. The amendment aims to speed up business creation, which is our ultimate goal for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u455	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2484.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u456	At this late hour, I will only speak for a moment about the famous CERFA M0, which allows the creation of a business as such: its complexity is such that it is often because of it that the entrepreneur takes up his file to address a CFE. If we want to make entrepreneurs more self-reliant in their approaches, we need to ask ourselves how to simplify them in favour of a real "Web 2.0" approach. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to create a kind of CERFA certified "Web 2.0", in order to allow future entrepreneurs to carry out their own business.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u457	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u458	We take it as an appeal amendment. Your inquiry is very accurate, Mrs. Motin. In a previous debate, you had shown us this CERFA to highlight its complexity; you had drawn our attention to the fact that its digital version was simply transposing it and the need to review the ergonomics of the portal in order to make it truly accessible. The work on the Single Window which will be carried out in the coming months and will include moments of dialogue with Parliament will make it possible to verify that its ergonomics correspond well to what is expected of it. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u459	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u460	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u461	Do you maintain your amendment or withdraw it, Mrs. Motin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u462	It was indeed an appeal amendment, aimed at rationalizing digital procedures. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u463	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2015.u464	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the anti-fraud bill; Discussion, in accordance with the simplified procedure, of the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Peru; the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of the Congo on the paid employment of dependants of officials of official missions of each State in the other, the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador on the paid employment of dependants of members of official missions, and the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Peru on the paid employment of members of families of officials of official missions of each State in the other; the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part; Further discussion of the draft law on business growth and transformation. The meeting is adjourned.
