ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u2	We deal with the examination of appropriations for the missions "Management of public finances and human resources", "Public action and transformation", "Unallocated appropriations" and "Social and pension schemes", "Repayments and discounts", as well as appropriations for the trust accounts "Management of the real estate of the State" and "pensions" (No. 1302, annexes 25, 26, 27, 35 and 37; No 1305, Volume IV; No 1307, Volume II). The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u3	[[Smile]] Mr President, Mr Secretary of State – dear Olivier –, ladies and gentlemen of the special rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen of the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, who have come so many this evening,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u4	It's been a hard night, Minister, because of the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u5	I've been told, MP, but you will see that the Minister of Public Accounts always has difficult nights between September and December – and I often share them with you. Olivier Dussopt and I are pleased to present to you the appropriations for the various missions carried out by the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of the various rapporteurs and draftsmen for opinions of these missions, who, as every year, have carried out an uncompromising analysis of the financial resources devoted to these public policies. It is clear from your work that there is an absolute need to transform the state in depth, and in particular to transform its missions to meet the challenges and changes facing today's public service. This need is latent in each of your reports, whether it is to define the public service of tomorrow – which Olivier Dussopt will mention earlier –, to re-design the architecture of the major network administrations of customs and the Directorate General of Public Finance – DGFIP –, to better understand the valuation of the State's real estate assets or to rethink the legal security of taxpayers and local and regional authorities. These challenges and changes are indeed more numerous and more pressing than ever. Whether it is digital transformation, the emergence of a service society, the ageing of the population, the occurrence of Brexit and its multiple twists or the simplification of our taxation, all oblige us to rethink the missions of our public services, which are the wealth of the nation. I am pleased to see that you are very much in agreement with the ambition, not simply to adapt structures to changes, but to change these structures themselves. That is why the President of the Republic and the parliamentary majority were elected. First of all, I would like to refer to the appropriations for the missions "Management of public finances and human resources" and "Public action and transformation", thanking their rapporteur, Mr Saint-Martin, for having indicated that this budget provided concrete answers to long-standing questions, particularly for himself last year. I will pay particular attention to the in-depth revision of the missions of DGFIP and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Fees – DGDDI – as well as to the establishment of these two administrations, which are undergoing a very important reorganization and whose executives and agents I thank to adapt to the request of Parliament and the Government, particularly for the operation of their networks. As you can see in this budget, the Government is making significant efforts to modernize these administrations digitally and to develop data sharing, and has taken concrete steps to improve the quality of service to users, echoing the law for a State serving a trustworthy society – ESSOC – what is happening in the texts is happening today too. In this spirit, on July 11, I brought together all the executives of my ministry and will do so again on November 28, together with Olivier Dussopt, to follow this transformation. I will invite, as I did last time, parliamentarians, including the rapporteur and the Senate rapporteur, to come and discuss this transformation with FIPB and Customs Branch executives, which will be particularly strong at the network level from that date on. The evolution of working practices and tools should facilitate the implementation of a new implementation scheme, which we call the revised geography or the deconcentration of proximity, in particular for the Directorate-General for Public Finance. This scheme takes more account of the balance of the territories and expresses a willingness to listen to the expectations of the users. This will be the case, in particular, when we decide to remove a significant part of the public service from Île-de-France and the metropolises to reposition them in rural areas or in cities with neighbourhoods governed by city policy. I will have the opportunity to make first announcements about this in the Hauts-de-France region at the beginning of next week. Other deeper changes will take place for the entire territory, with this new deconcentration of proximity and the re-establishment of civil servants, including public finances, in rural territories. We will, of course, involve parliamentarians from all political sides who are interested in these issues, trade union organisations, local elected representatives and, of course, the agents themselves. Finally, I would like to add that I fully endorse, Mr rapporteur, your proposal to give more visibility to public officials by strengthening the tools for the forecast management of jobs and skills, which are now too weak. We will return, and Olivier Dussopt in particular. The reorganisation of the work of civil servants related to the consequences of the structural reforms adopted must be subject to greater vigilance by the Government, since the wealth of the administration was made up of women and men. The removal of the housing tax and the implementation of the source levy, as well as the single financial account and the end of the cash in the network of the Directorate-General for Public Finance, illustrate these structural reforms. I now turn to the management of the State's real estate assets, which has been the subject of particularly detailed work by the rapporteur, Mr Mattei, whom I would like to thank for this work. He knows how much we agree with the observation that he made from the moment he was appointed to your assembly: we have reached the limits of the model of valuing our assets only through the disposal of assets. From this point of view, I can only agree, Mr rapporteur, with your proposal to consider alternative arrangements within the framework of existing law, for example a mechanism of self-interest which would encourage the occupants to preserve the assets they use. In particular, I have expressed very clear guidelines, in perfect convergence, Mr rapporteur, with your recommendations last year and this year, at the interdepartmental committee on public transformation on 29 October, which the Prime Minister echoed. Similarly, and always in order to preserve the income of the trust account – CAS – the Government will be entitled to your proposal to better regulate the use of the discount on the sale prices of the State's real estate to local authorities, establishments or operators who also have land reserves. Finally, I welcome the fact that your report highlights the Government's efforts, in particular with regard to the reduction of procedures and simplification, as we have done in the past with regard to taxation, with the removal of a very large number of low-yield taxes, which were included in the motion for a resolution by Mr Saint-Martin. In fact, Mr. Mattei, you are right to say that the budgetary rent scheme that we propose to abolish in this finance bill resulted in writing games that improperly mobilised the administrations without necessarily contributing to an awareness of the heritage value of the occupied property. It was once the spirit of the legislator and the Government, and it can be said today that this has not fully achieved the desired goals. I come to the mission "Reimbursements and Discounts" – which gives me the opportunity to greet Mrs Pires Beaune – the most important of the general budget of the State in terms of appropriations. It is in fact directly affected by the changes in our taxation, whether it is the implementation of the levy at source, dear to the chairman of the sitting – probably a little frustrated not to be able to table any amendments while he is presiding over your assembly this evening, but I know that, from where he is, he looks at us and participates in the debate – or the reduction of the housing tax voted by this majority, but it is also frustrated by the litigation, as the recent report of the fact-finding mission on the management of budgetary risks associated with the tax and non-tax disputes of the State, chaired by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and whose rapporteur was Romain Grau, which I would like to commend here for the important work he has done. I shall now, Madam rapporteur, respond point by point to the questions you put in your report. First, you are referring to the fact that the 60 per cent down payment scheme for tax credits and reductions provided for in section 3 of the Finance Bill presents significant risks of repayments. It is true that some taxpayers are likely to receive the advance in January, because they received a credit or tax reduction in 2017, but some of them will no longer be eligible in 2018. It will therefore be necessary, at the time of tax adjustment in the summer of 2019, to ask them for the refund of the advance wrongly paid, even if we have taken the side of taking the most recurring tax credits, such as donations to associations, for more than 60% of the taxpayers making such donations. [[Smile]] In addition, we will do pedagogy: I will write to all taxpayers receiving the January advance to explain the situation and they will receive the letter from the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts before 15 January, i.e. before the direct payment to their bank account, without any particular administrative procedure, of this 60% tax credit. Those who receive the advance when they no longer benefit from the reduction or the tax credit concerned will therefore have a temporary cash benefit, which will be regularised after a few months. In the meantime, if they wish, they could have placed the money on an account that will generate some interest – perhaps this is what the Directors General of Customs and Public Finance will do if they benefit from tax credits in their personal lives. Secondly, you point out that the refunds linked to tax disputes, even though they are declining as a result of the gradual termination of the 3% dividend tax dispute, remain very significant. This situation is rooted in the evolution of the tax dispute over the past 15 years. In addition to the challenges relating to the application by the tax administration of the legislation, it is the tax law itself that is the subject of disputes. In this respect, the role of the Constitutional Judge and the Community Judge has increased considerably thanks in particular to the entry into force of the provisions on the priority question of constitutionality, as well as to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling before the European Court. As you know, this situation leads much more frequently than in the past to mass litigation, to considerable challenges for the State, due to the volume of disputes to be dealt with or the financial amount involved. These disputes can be settled very quickly after the adoption of the law, but the procedure, involving multiple courts, can be very lengthy, thus increasing the financial burden borne by the State in the event of annulment, because of the moratorium interests that run over very long periods. Thirdly, you point out, Madam, that the removal of the housing tax may weaken the link between the citizen and the tax, although I also observe that you welcome the Government's intention with regard to purchasing power. I believe, on the contrary, that the Government is precisely removing an obsolete tax, in complete contrast to the contributory capacities of our fellow citizens, which is tending to increase the distance with the consent to tax, a subject that I believe is relevant. When a tax is no longer included because it no longer corresponds to any tangible rule, when a mother of Tourcoing pays, for the same living space, a tax three times higher than a lawyer who earns a good living in Paris, this abolition does not weaken in any way the link between the citizen and the tax, but strengthens it. At the end of this removal, we will have a fairer and more legible local tax system, and therefore a better consent to tax. This will be the subject of the meeting that we will have together in April or next May. On 17 April, together with Olivier Dussopt, I will present the finance bill specific to local taxation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] Finally, Mr. Dussopt should address, in his response to the opening discussion on the public service, issues relating to the transformation of the bill that we will be bringing together from next January, the financial situation of the National School of Administration – ENA – and the reforms of the salaries of agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u6	I recall that the budget discussion is the subject of a particular organization that compels everyone, including members of the Government. I beg your pardon. As a result, Mr. Dussopt, you will not be able to respond to the outcome of the opening discussion, but the consideration of the amendments will give the Government the opportunity to provide the answers it wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u7	[[Smile]] It is not you who will blame us for speaking in the Chamber, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u8	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u9	2019 will be a pivotal year. It will be for the mission "Management of public finances and human resources", which brings together the appropriations of most of the departments of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. It will also be for the "Public Action and Transformation" mission, which carries out the investments associated with the vast transformation of public action that we have launched. For many years, the reports drawn up by our assemblies, by our bodies of control, or by our inspection bodies remind us of the limits of the status quo, and point out that maintaining the quality of service can only be done at the cost of a profound reflection on the scope of the missions and on the organization of the administration. Progress has so far been too timid. In line with the recommendations made by the Public Action Committee 2022, this draft budget finally provides concrete answers. The simplification of taxation will be continued by the abolition of many low-yield taxes. Tax management will be modernised through the transfer from customs to DGFIP, the recovery of duties on non-alcoholic beverages, and further developments will be discussed very soon. The announced objective of a single collection agency is also the subject of intense reflection. The territorial organisation of the major networked administrations will be rethought in a logic of deconcentration of the central services of the Île-de-France towards the regions – deconcentration dear to you, minister – and from the metropolises to the rural or peri-urban territories. The creation of a fund for the transformation of public action will make it possible to emancipate oneself from a short-termist logic; It will give us the opportunity to put our action in time by accompanying transformations through investment. Minister, the budget you are proposing to us for the mission "Management of Public Finance and Human Resources" is sincere and consistent. Payment appropriations for the three mission-specific programmes amount to EUR 10.3 billion, a slight decrease of EUR 30 million compared to 2018. The employment pattern will result in a decrease of nearly 2000 full-time equivalents, mainly driven by the DGFIP, and partly mitigated by the continuation of customs recruitment, due to the necessary Brexit preparation – a total of 700 customs posts will be created over three years, including 350 posts in 2019. However, Minister, I ask you to be vigilant on three points. First, material expenditure remains tense, particularly in the area of information technology. At the request of our committee, the Court of Auditors is currently carrying out an inquiry into this matter, and I will present my recommendations to you in committee at the next Spring Evaluation. Secondly, given the scale of the transformations to be carried out, it is absolutely fundamental, as you yourself have stressed, and I thank you, to give more visibility to public officials, both in terms of the evolution of missions and trades and in terms of the territorial organisation of services. The trade unions I met stressed the need for multi-annual restructuring programmes. This request is legitimate; I think it has to be satisfied. I would also like to draw your attention, Minister, to one specific point: the evolution of the performance indicator on the rate of collection of fines, which remains low, and which fell significantly in 2018 – we talked about it during the Spring of the Evaluation. The tax administration has so far provided no quantitative explanation on this subject, but I am sure it will do so very quickly. I would like to know what measures have been taken to remedy this situation. 2019 will be the year of the first concrete achievements for the "Public Action and Transformation" mission. For its programme "Renovation of administrative cities and other multi-occupational government sites", 2018 consisted of a phase of census and diagnosis of the existing park. In total, 900 million euros of commitment authorisations will be opened in 2019 to allow the launch of the works. The €200 million opened in 2018 for the "Public Action Transformation Fund" programme was committed. High-potential projects have been selected. You yourself, Minister, presented the winners of the second call for projects last Monday at the GovTech Summit. It seems to me important to remember that this fund must retain its inter-ministerial nature, and not refrain from financing projects that generate structural savings, even when their valuation may prove to be difficult. In addition, a new fund, dedicated to inter-ministerial human resources support, is created from 2019 in an ad hoc programme, with €50 million. The budget for the digital transformation of the state is ambitious, but I think it is necessary to go further, by strengthening the financing of private innovation in the service of public transformation. Following the proposal I made during the Spring of the Evaluation, the Finance Committee of our House adopted an amendment to create a public private equity fund to finance state start-ups at the top of the balance sheet. This fund for the acceleration of the financing of state start-ups, which could be called FAST, would have 10 million euros of payment credits from 2019 onwards...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u10	[[Smile]] Yes, it's fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u11	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will talk about this later when we examine the appropriations. Mr Minister, let's change, let's be bold, let's take risks, let's modernise the French state for more efficient public services, closer to the needs of our fellow citizens, cheaper, and, as you said, for the well-being of our public officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u12	Mrs Valérie Petit, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u13	206 million euros are the appropriations that the draft finance law for 2019 proposes to allocate, via the programme 148 "Public Service" of the mission "Management of public finances and human resources", mainly to the DGAFP, the Directorate-General for Administration and the Public Service, to carry out its interdepartmental action in the management of public human resources. EUR 206 million is about 0.05% of the budget. This may seem relatively modest to support the government's HRD action towards 5.4 million officers. As special rapporteur, I would say that this amount certainly calls for a fierce humility, and that it requires, in the field of public action, a formidable efficiency. But let it not hold: I believe in the butterfly effect, the idea that it is sometimes enough for a butterfly's wings to beat, to produce great effects. The butterfly effect is summed up by the famous question of meteorologist Edward Lorenz: "Can the wing beat of a butterfly in Brazil cause a tornado in Texas? » Can an amount of €206 million lead to a significant transformation of public action? The answer is "yes". I'll tell you how this can happen. I would point out, however, that I did not find this answer alone. Over the past three months, I have been immersed in ten jurisdictions alongside field officers to speak with HR teams on compensation, mobility, recruitment, quality of life at work and training. When, at the end of my journey last month, I brought my interlocutors together, we all agreed on what public officials really expect. Beyond the problems of mobility, remuneration or reorganization, in reality they expect two very simple things: consideration, and the meaning given to public action. How can we give officers consideration? This can be achieved by modernizing four HR policies. First of all, it is a question of building a fairer and more incentiveful remuneration policy that recognizes the individual as well as the collective. That is why we support the Government's decision not to increase the point of index for 2019 in favour of a flattening of the remuneration policy. The aim is to make this policy a real lever of motivation and recognition of agents, a lever it is not today. We also advocate the creation of real compensation and benefits officers within departments and the AFPB. Secondly, there is a need for a training policy that supports the development of staff skills. We welcome the creation by the Government of an interdepartmental HR support fund. We also propose the establishment of a personal training account, the way in which it would operate would be common for public officials and private employees. We also encourage the Government to initiate a reflection on the creation of a national agency of the type "France compétences" for the civil service, inspired by France compétences, the body for the governance of vocational training and apprenticeship. In order to give consideration to staff, a more flexible and personalized mobility and career management policy is also needed to meet their new aspirations. We welcome the creation within the DGAFP of a function dedicated to the conversion and mobility of public servants. We propose to go further in facilitating mobility by involving in the creation of the public employment platform an approach to the creation of "employer brands" of the State, in order to meet the challenges of internal and external recruitment. Finally, the consideration of agents requires a policy of equality and diversity which would make the State an exemplary employer. The Government is continuing its efforts to support childcare, which is a key to achieving equality between men and women. It is negotiating an ambitious agreement to reduce wage inequalities to zero and to allow women's access to positions of responsibility. However, we would like to alert him to possible measures that would tend to "gender" HR practices, while the spirit of the fight for equality, which is the struggle of all men and women, is to recognize everyone to his or her fair value regardless of sex, not sex. We therefore call for a policy of diversity and the fight against all discrimination that is much more ambitious and inclusive. How can public action be made meaningful? That's the other expectation of public officials. Three actors must be mobilized here. First of all, it is the AFPB. We need a strong HRD, custodian of the HR strategy, able to share a new framework of adership and public action with all stakeholders. This implies a strengthening, if not a pre-eminence, of the interdepartmental HR and managerial action. It is then the managers and the public agents that we must mobilize, bring together and value beyond the administrations and the slopes, because they are the first heralds and spokespersons of the public transformation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, of course, it is up to the Government to mobilize itself, as well as parliamentarians, in this forum and in their territories. We need to know how to answer this legitimate question from agents who ask why public action is transformed, when we often have the reflex to talk only about how or how much. If, among us, everyone could only answer the simple question of why with a certain flame and a certain conviction, then we would save millions of euros, because a beautiful account of the transformation that gives the work heart to our agents is worth far more than a long line of budget appropriations on programme 148. That's why I believe in the butterfly effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u14	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u15	As you know, since its creation in 2006, the special affection account "Management of the State's real estate assets" has been the main budgetary lever of the State's real estate policy in its interdepartmental dimension. The draft finance law for 2019 proposes to allocate to it the sum of 581.70 million euros in commitment authorisations and 483 million euros in payment appropriations. Compared to the initial 2018 finance law, the appropriations requested decreased by 25.42 % in commitment authorities and by 16.97 % in payment appropriations. This movement, much more pronounced than in 2017 and 2018, corresponds to the reduction in appropriations allocated to structural and disposal operations. However, the decrease in appropriations affects all expenditure items. Only the "Large Maintenance, Rehabilitation, Compliance and Rehabilitation" project is progressing. In terms of revenue, EUR 410 million is expected. These projected resources include EUR 320 million for real estate transfers and EUR 90 million for state fees. Compared with the forecast for the current period, these amounts represent a decrease in the resources of the trust account by 29.52 per cent, a direct result of the expected drop in the proceeds of disposals, which decreased by 34.92 per cent. This is expected to result in a deficit of €73 million in 2019, while current programming is based on a return to balance, after the negative result seen in 2017. If these figures do not question the relevance of the 2019 budget programming, they must alert us. Of course, the trust account still has a cash flow of €812.4 million, and the amount requested does not appear to be inconsistent with the changing needs of the State's real estate policy or with the pace of expenditure. However, these figures make even more evident the intrinsic fragility of a model that has been financing asset maintenance for several years on the disposal of its assets, as the minister said. The first results of the implementation of 2018 confirm this trend: the product from sales will continue its erosion. Even if any forecast is by nature random, we will not be able to accommodate such a precarious financial balance for a long time. I'm telling you, time for choices is approaching. From a strategic point of view, the State's real estate policy is being strengthened, as evidenced by the communication presented at the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016 and its translation throughout the country today. For example, the development of regional master plans is coming to an end, and the work done by regional prefects should lead to a heritage strategy that will distinguish assets that are intended to remain in the State's heritage from those that are intended to emerge from it. From a financial point of view, progress in renegotiating leases makes it credible to maintain a substantial savings objective. Finally, the changes in the budget model now favour the pooling of appropriations. The abolition of budgetary rents provides further relief from the procedures. However, the fair valuation of real estate assets on the government balance sheet remains a fundamental issue: we will continue to need relevant indicators. We will also need to consider a mechanism of interest that would encourage occupants to preserve the assets they use. For the future, it is important to consolidate the achievements of the State's real estate policy and to ensure the sustainability of its financing. In my view, this finance bill contributes to these objectives: first, because it gives priority to large-scale maintenance and rehabilitation activities, and secondly because it provides resources for administrative cities as part of the funding under the 348 programme. I will call on you to vote in favour of its adoption. I have tabled two amendments to encourage the Government to meet two requirements. I believe that we can do a useful job. The first is the preservation of trust account income. A better framework for the use of discounting, taking into account the land reserves available to communities, establishments or operators, would contribute to this. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The second requirement relates to the modalities for valuing the public heritage. You will understand: I do not believe that the transfer is the alpha and the omega to achieve this objective. On the contrary, it seems to me rather to induce a form of impoverishment. The government's real estate management has been conducting a reflection for several months on alternative models of asset valuation. Without disregarding the scope of the task, I propose that the public authorities share their experience in this area through a government report. The preparation of this report would be entrusted to one of the administrative bodies specialised in these matters. In particular, it could be the subject of expertise from the State Real Estate Council. The report would provide an opportunity to assess possible mechanisms in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u16	Mr Olivier Damaisin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u17	For 2019, €6.28 billion of funding for the Social and Pension Schemes mission is declining. The budget for special schemes falls by EUR 48 million compared to the appropriations voted in finance law last year. But let us not be mistaken: special regimes do not return to balance. This trend is in fact consistent with the decline in the amount paid to ENIM – Établissement national des invalides de la marine – for the mariners' scheme, as well as a sharp decrease in the expenditure on pensions paid to beneficiaries of closed plans, including ORTF – French Broadcasting Office – and SEITA – Société d'exploitation industrielle des tabacs et des matchttes. This decline is almost mechanical, as these schemes no longer accommodate new contributors are in the process of extinction. But in parallel, the subsidies paid to the schemes of the SNCF – Société nationale des chemins de fer français – and the RATP – Régie autonome des transports parisiennes – continue to increase sharply. An additional €47 million is planned for 2019 to balance these schemes. The overall decline on the mission thus masks an increase on programme 198, a sign of a strengthening of State intervention. As you know, these schemes are struggling to self-finance themselves, as they have a higher number of pensioners than the number of contributors. This situation does not improve, despite the parametric reforms of recent years, and weighs more and more on the amount of the balance subsidy. Take the case of SNCF: the amount requested to cover the need for financing of the caisse in 2019 amounts to €3.3 billion, which is €20 million more than in 2018 and €50 million more than in 2017. But I wonder: is this increase, in itself significant, sufficient to cover the need for financing of the caisse for 2019? Since 2015, the appropriations provided for in the original Finance Act have consistently proved insufficient. In 2016, EUR 51 million had to be found during the year for the SNCF special scheme in 2017, EUR 18 million. In 2018, it was again necessary to make the opening of appropriations during the year: this is one of the reasons to be the amending finance bill that our assembly has just completed the examination at first reading. The text provides for an additional €115 million for the SNCF personnel pension fund. What about 2019? Should appropriations be made again in the course of the year? At this stage, the caisse already claims a gap of 35 million euros between its need for funding for 2019 and the amount entered in the finance bill. I know, minister, that it is difficult to accurately predict the needs of these plans, but why is this discrepancy between the need expressed by the fund and the amount set out in the finance bill? As for the RATP staff pension fund, the amount allocated for 2019 is EUR 736 million, which is EUR 27 million more than in 2018. This is a sign that the demographic imbalance of the regime is increasing. Not only does the forecast number of RATP pensioners increase by more than 6% in 2019 compared to 2018, but the number of contributors declines due to the decline in RATP status hirings. These are the reasons for the increase in appropriations for programme 198. However, this increase is moderate, since – as I recall – the rate of revalorisation of pensions is limited, for 2019 as for 2020, to 0.3%. If the rate of revalorisation had been equal to inflation, the amount of expenditure would have increased further by EUR 110 million. I agree with the expenditure recorded in the Pensions Trust Account. As you know, 94 per cent of the appropriations in this special-purpose account finance the retirement and disability pensions of civil servants and military personnel, 3 per cent finance the pensions of State workers, and the remaining 3 per cent finance the State's old-age pensions and living allowances. In 2019, the estimated expenditure on pensions for the State civil service is €55.36 billion. This is 600 million euros more than in 2018, given the projected increase in the number of public service pensioners in 2019 – more than 24,000 new pensioners. This increase seems to be significant, ladies and gentlemen, but it remains moderate in comparison to the average increase in expenditure observed in recent years. In addition, the projected revenue for 2019 is high enough to ensure a surplus balance. The situation is more complicated for the old-age insurance scheme for state workers. The number of pensioners under this scheme is decreasing, but not as much as the number of contributors. Indeed, since 2010, the number of State workers has been divided by two; it decreases by 10% each year. As a result, earnings from wage and employer contributions cover barely 20% of expenditure. The balance of this section of the trust account is therefore ensured by the increase in the subsidy paid by the other budgetary missions, depending on the number of State workers attached to it. This grant reached €1.4 billion in 2019, representing 72% of the revenue allocated to this scheme. The projected balance of the trust account at the end of 2019 remains in surplus, at EUR 1.5 billion. Therefore, the requirement of balance assigned to trust accounts by the Organization Act on Finance Laws is respected. In conclusion, I would say that this budget is reasonable. Of course, it has increased spending, but this increase is under control, thanks in particular to the moderate revalorisation of pension expenditure decided in the framework of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2019. I will therefore issue a favourable opinion on the appropriations for the Social and Pension Plans Mission and the Pensions Trust Account. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As Special Rapporteur on the appropriations for special pension schemes, I am also attentive to the work on the reform of current pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u18	Mrs Pires Beaune, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u19	The "Reimbursements and Discounts" mission is the largest in the general government budget in volume. For 2019, this mission's appropriations, which are exclusively assessed, amount to €136 billion, or 33% of gross tax revenue. This represents a net increase of $16 billion. The implementation of the source levy will lead to the payment of a cash advance on certain tax credits. The previous majority had foreseen this advance. The current majority is expanding its scope and increasing its rate: it is a good thing for the taxpayer. The total advances are estimated at EUR 5.6 billion. This scheme is important because it will cushion the potential negative effects of the source levy on household cash flow. I'm very pleased with that. I have noted, minister, that a letter will be sent to the beneficiaries to draw their attention to the risk of undue levying in the event of a change of situation: this is also a good thing. The second notable development is related to the increase in the housing tax relief for 80% of households. This rebate will be increased in 2019 to 65% of the amount of the housing tax due. Its total cost over the year is estimated at EUR 7.1 billion. My position on this reform has not changed. Renewing purchasing power to taxpayers is a laudable intention. But it is a mistake for me to do so by removing the housing tax. Indeed, as you pointed out, Minister, this measure will weaken the link between the citizen and the tax and destabilize local budgets. They financed local public services, to which the French were very attached. In addition, the terms of permanent compensation to communities have not been arbitrated to date, which is a legitimate concern for elected officials. In 2018, the application of the discount is broadly in line with the forecast: 59.7% of households will benefit, at a total cost of €3.16 billion, representing an average gain of around €160 per household. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to three points. First, as I indicated last year, the share of households that will be reduced or exempted from housing tax in 2020 will vary greatly depending on the municipality. For example, in my constituency – the second in the Puy-de-Dôme – the share of households not benefiting from the reform will range from 3% to 41%. Secondly, following the controversy opened in October about increases in housing tax rates, it seems to me important to recall that, on the whole, beyond certain specific situations, the use of the tax lever by the municipalities was reasonable in 2018. Local tax rates have been lower in municipalities than in 2017: local tax rate increases have affected only 20% of the population, and are generally moderate. The increase in rates and the possible change in the system of allowances represent a total of EUR 30 million, for 60% of taxpayers – compared to EUR 3.16 billion in rebates. Thirdly, Minister, the Assembly adopted, as part of the first part of the 2019 Finance Bill, a Government Amendment No. 2574, which we did not consider in committee, which will allow 380,000 households benefiting from an extension of a housing tax exemption under the whistle-out device linked to the end of the half-share of widows to also benefit from a contribution relief to the public audiovisual. This amendment will also allow an additional 40,000 households to benefit from the same measures. I wonder about the average reference tax income of these 40,000 households. It is EUR 41,500, i.e. twice the average reference tax income of the 380000 households concerned. In addition, the net cost of this government amendment is EUR 77 million, and will be borne by local authorities three quarters – information that we did not have in the debate on the amendment. Can you confirm it tonight, Minister? What is more, this problem will arise again next year: will local authorities once again have to bear the cost of this measure? Finally, in the case of expenses associated with tax litigation, the expenditure is down due to the end of the 3 per cent dividend tax litigation. However, we must remain attentive on two points. In a recent decision on 4 October last, the European Court of Justice condemned France for failure to act. €600 million has been earmarked for this purpose in 2019. Has the assessment of the potential cost of this litigation been revised upwards – or downwards – in the light of this decision? Concerning the dispute concerning the contribution to the public electricity service, CSPE, the first repayments could reach EUR 100 million in 2019. How will the administration organize itself not only to deal with the 14,000 appeals, but also – and above all – the 55,000 pending applications?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u20	Mrs Emilie Chalas, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u21	Early next year, Parliament will review the Public Service Reform Bill. More than just a reform, it will be a real transformation of public action, a result of a long dialogue between the Government and all the representative organizations in the three sides of the civil service for almost a year. Whether it is the management of human resources and the development of contracting, professional equality between women and men, the strengthening of social dialogue or the policies for the remuneration of public officials, all the important issues have been – or are still – the subject of in-depth discussions that will form the basis for this text, which we will discuss in the coming months. As legislators, ladies and gentlemen, we will have a decisive responsibility: to determine the overall framework within which our public services will have to operate in order to meet the growing expectations expressed by our fellow citizens in the best possible conditions. Far from clichés and false evidence, the public service is not a monolithic block that resists change; It already knows how to adapt to the changing social and economic realities, to the legitimate demands of efficiency and even efficiency, and to an imperative of openness that no one should underestimate. Today, however, these challenges require a redefinition of a general framework to respond precisely and concretely to all of these challenges. On the occasion of the consideration of this finance bill for 2019, I wished this year, as draftsman for the opinion of the Law Commission on the "Public Service" programme, to pay particular attention to the subject of management. It has come to my mind that this cross-cutting topic brings together most of the crucial issues raised by the future of the public service. Management is not a concept reserved for what is pejoratively called "technocracy": it is a reality of everyday life in all our local public services, the one faced every day by hundreds of thousands of public officials, especially in the territorial public service, who perform functions of technical or intermediate management. But being a good manager does not decree and does not improvise. It's learned. With this in mind, I have made several recommendations in order to strengthen the management training of all public officials in managerial positions, regardless of their field of activity or their hierarchical level. During your hearing by the Law Committee, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, you made a number of commitments that are in the right direction. First of all, you have confirmed the Government's determination to meet the target of 10,000 apprentices under contract in the public service every year. To this end, the draft finance law provides for the redeployment of the appropriations allocated to the financing of apprenticeships in the civil service, i.e. around EUR 30 million, to all the programmes run by each ministry in order to simplify the financial management of the use of apprentices. It is obviously essential to ensure that the overall financial envelope allocated to learning in 2019 will not decrease. You have also voted in favour of thinking about building bridges to include apprentices as contract agents in the public service: I am obviously in favour of this and I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss it again when we consider the future bill. The openness of the public service to the diversity of talents, profiles and pathways is, of course, a priority at the heart of the transformation of public action. This priority is available at several levels. First, it concerns the 5.5 million public servants who work on all three sides of the public service, as mobility between government, territorial and hospital functions must be encouraged, as the diversity of experiences in the service of the public interest is a strength for our administrations, communities and hospitals. Moreover, this objective of openness is intended to materialize in the recruitment of civil servants by competition, because it is a highly meritocratic way of access, which enshrines the only "talents and virtues" of candidates as proclaimed by the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights in 1789. But it must be noted that the internal competitions and the third competition of certain schools in the high public service, I am thinking of the ENA, suffer from a lack of selectivity, particularly reinforced by a form of self-censorship on the part of many potential candidates. There are ways to address these problems, and their budgetary impact would be residual compared to the benefits that the State and local and regional authorities could benefit from. Finally, the opening up of the civil service obviously implies the development of the use of contract workers; mobility between the public and private sectors is not a big word, it is already a reality for millions of women and men whose careers feed on diverse experiences, and it is now a question of promoting this mobility by laying down clear and fair rules that will enable the public service's human resources management framework to be adapted to the challenges of the 21st century. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We must not be afraid of change. The Public Service has all the qualities and creativity it needs to succeed in its transformation. Numerous initiatives from the field contribute every day to the modernization of the public service, as I mentioned in my report for an opinion. They are a clear sign that all actors on the ground, associations and administrations are mobilized to meet the many challenges facing the public service, such as the dematerialization of procedures and, more generally, the digital revolution. As such, the modernization of our training structures, both initial and in-service, is an essential lever of action for the success of the public service, which we all call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u23	Mrs Corinne Vignon, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u24	For the second year in a row, I have the honour to present my report on the appropriations for the Social and Retirement Plans Mission and the Pensions Trust Account. I have chosen to focus on marital and family pension rights, with a view to the systemic evolution of our forty-two pension schemes towards a universal point pension scheme. I was keen to show that, far from being a threat to existing arrangements, the transition to this new system could be a chance to refocus them on their objectives, or even complement them with the emergence of new solidarity. First of all, with regard to marital pension rights, we must remember that there is absolutely no question of calling into question the very principle of reversion! It is too useful for the reduction of inequalities between women and men: it brings the overall average pension of women to 75 per cent of that of men, whereas, without the reversal, the average direct pension of women would amount to only 60 per cent. However, it will be necessary to adapt the terms of the reversion in the new system over a very long transitional period in order to simplify and harmonise the thirteen existing attribution models whose complexity undermines the predictability of the rights for the insured. A very large majority of the people whom I have heard call for a convergence of the rules of reversion in the context of a reform which takes account of the changes in marriage and family models: is it legitimate or not to subordinate the reversion to a condition of age, resources, duration of marriage or non-remarriage? If the universalization of the rules of reversion is essential, it should not, in my view, lead to the abandonment of another principle: that of reversions for the benefit of orphans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u25	I agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u26	This system exists today in the civil service, the SNCF, the seamen and the mines, and it would certainly be interesting to consider its generalization for the 500,000 orphans in our country. The cost of this measure could be reasonable, bearing in mind that, for the entire State civil service, expenditure on reversions to orphans amounted to less than EUR 100 million last year, out of a total of about EUR 55 billion of these pensions. Such a generalisation would be proof that the transition to a point-based pension system is not synonymous with an alignment from the bottom and can be an opportunity for new solidarity to emerge. The same could be true with regard to family pension rights, which are useful for reducing social inequalities and pension gaps between women and men. In fact, the increase in the term of insurance, known as "MDA", increases the amount of female pensions by about 10% and the old-age insurance of the parents at home, known as "AVPF", by about 5%. Today, however, these arrangements are inconsistent with one another and result in a child not opening up the same pension rights, depending on whether one is a civil servant or an employee of the private sector. These family rights are no longer adapted to their original objectives: the MDAs which allow the acquisition of two to eight quarters per child are unfair and sometimes useless because of the lengthening of women's careers. As for child pension increases, which are proportional to income, they increase inequalities for the benefit of men in general and well-off fathers of large families in particular. Transforming the current family rights into children's points in the future would allow the French to gain fairness and predictability, as they would, at the time of the event in question, have the counterpart of the points to be awarded to them in respect of solidarity. Finally, as has been the case in Germany, this systemic reform could give rise to new family rights: I am thinking in particular of close caregivers, mostly women, who sacrifice all or part of their professional activity to support a mother who is losing her autonomy or a son with a disability. As you know, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, caregivers must not suffer the double penalty by becoming the second victims of the aide's disease. Thus, supporting a reform securing the pension of family caregivers who make the choice of heart to the detriment of their career seems to me to correspond to the real project of French society,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u27	This has already been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... the one who places in his retirement system the fraternal bond that unites citizens with each other: solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u29	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr Michel Castellani, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u30	Let's say the entrance: there is a decrease in the appropriations for the 148 "Public Service" program compared to 2018. This is certainly due to a perimeter effect, with the transfer of appropriations for learning to other ministerial programmes amounting to almost EUR 30 million, but is not a good prospect for the future. But in 2019 the state will continue to promote learning, and even to develop access to the third competition for apprentices, which we can only rejoice at! I would like to mention, in programme 148, the training of future senior managers via the ENA and the IRAs, the regional administrative institutes. As you know, the reform project carried out by the Directorate-General for Administration and the Civil Service concerns the staff concerned, the students and the local elected representatives. On the form, without any record of the 2007 IRA reform and without any consultation, the Government seems to be embarking on a complete overhaul of the scheme on the basis of intuitions or prejudices. In a quality search, it would have been better, indisputably, to have been based on a substantiated diagnosis, highlighting the strengths and paths of progress of the current formula.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u32	In substance, this reform sweeps away a model that has proved its worth in favour of a new architecture articulating training composed exclusively of teachings in schools with, ultimately, a so-called probationary period whose legal contours are not consolidated. The robust model that blended innovative teachings in institutes with real practice in administration is abandoned when, as I said, it has been widely proven. A dynamic combination of teaching and learning, he made the new attachés operational as soon as they took up their posts. Breaking this link poses the major risk of off-ground training and no longer allows for an assessment of each trainee's skills. I would like to alert the Government to the economic and social consequences of the reform for a city like Bastia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u33	Oh, yes! That's good! The government is alerted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u34	This project would lead, even its primary objective, to a reduction in the number of trainees present in this city. I would clearly ask you, Minister, to provide the government's guarantee that the Bastia IRA and its full-time equivalents will be maintained, as this request applies to both the staff of the Institute and the staff of the students recruited. You must take into account the immediate and fundamental interest of the territories in general, and in any case that of Bastia in particular. As far as the ENA is concerned, rather than considering a structural reform of the recovery, you are just too easy a policy of the plan. You are proposing only a reduction in the length of schooling, a further reduction in the number of staff, efforts at property management and a refocusing of continuing training: this speech seems insufficient to us. The need for the training of senior officials of the State civil service is not contested by anyone. However, we can only agree with a large part of the opinion that she feels about the executives who have left this school, in whom she sees the members of a caste disconnected from reality. We therefore call for reform of this training with a real territorial, international and entrepreneurial dimension. Your bill, Minister, is part of the broader framework of public service reform that you intend to undertake. Indeed, the downsizing cannot be an end in itself, and no one can question the need to increase positions in hospitals as well as in many other public services. In this connection, I would like to strongly oppose the plans to reorganise perceptions in rural areas, on which I shall quote, concerning Corsica, Aleria, and once again, Bastia, or Saint-Florent. Finally, I cannot finish my remarks without telling you how hard pensioners feel about your policy towards them. At SNCF and RATP, just to take these examples, pensions were not revalued in 2018, and they will not be revalued any more in 2019, even though the balance grant will increase this year by 50 million euros: understand who can. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, if we in the Libertés et Territoires Group share your desire to modernise public administration, we have a strong question, Minister, about the means you are using to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u35	We did well to stay tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u36	[[Smile]] You're the same band?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u37	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u38	The "Social and Pension Plans" mission funds government balance grants to various special pension schemes that are now unable to self-finance themselves. If, as our fellow rapporteurs Corinne Vignon and Olivier Damaisin have pointed out, the various programmes are subject to increases and decreases for structural reasons, either if they are to expire or if their evolution is linked to an increase or a fall in the population, we must note that we are in the particular context of the announced transformation of our pension system. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Corinne Vignon for drawing our attention to family and marital rights in retirement. The latest surveys shed light on the place of the French in the issue of pensions, as well as on their expectations and fears about future reform. Retirement funding is the main concern for a large majority, i.e. almost 80% of them. In addition, 70 per cent believe that they are poorly informed and 40 per cent fear that they will not receive a pension. In addition, 31% of French people under the age of 35 are preparing their retirement now by opening a life insurance contract or investing in real estate, while 44% of those aged 50 and over do not anticipate their departure. If 66% of French people are resigned to the need for pension reform, 80% consider that changing the legal age, the length of contributions or their amount, as well as the amount of pensions, will not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of the system. Aware of the challenge ahead, the French consider it essential to rethink the system more broadly by simplifying organizations, reducing operating costs and merging regimes. However, they also remain very attached to the principles of equality and solidarity. The President of the Republic has included it in his programme: each euro contributed will give the same rights, regardless of when it was paid and the status of the contributor. While measures which tend to achieve more equality between the different statuses of contributors are supported by the French, they also remain committed to solidarity schemes. In consultation with the social partners and citizens, led by an open platform from May to December 2018, the work towards convergence of special regimes has been launched. If a universal system replaces the existing 42 schemes in the private and public sectors, the statutory retirement age will remain at sixty-two years. Jean-Paul Delevoye, High Commissioner for Pension Reform, confirmed that he wanted to harmonize the various systems by saying: "whether he is a civil servant, an employee or an independent, if they earn the same amount of money for forty years, they will have the same pension". The task is immense in order to respond to the challenges of social justice, equal rights and sustainability of the system and its financing, while maintaining a French-style model. Of course, we will have to deal with immobilism as well as those who, although they always say that everything is going wrong, do not want to change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u39	Who's that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u40	Of course, we will have to deal with political instrumentalisation, because when we are in opposition, there can be no good reform. Of course, we have – and we will – to deal with the sausageing that only apprehends reform by the little bit of the lorgnette, instead, as we do, to evaluate it as a whole, as well as the game of the loser that opposes us to each other. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the challenge we face is not insurmountable, it requires that each of us, each Frenchman, like all of us, collectively, in a permanent dialogue, make this new pension system sustainable and ensure the future of our future seniors in equal rights, but also in the necessary solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u41	A beautiful speech, well nourished!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u42	Mr Jean-François Parigi, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u43	The budget mission "Management of public finances and human resources" that we are discussing today reflects the changes and challenges that need to be faced by our administration, and in particular that of Bercy. These issues are numerous and require the administration to review all its missions, its organization or its information systems. With regard to the issue of dematerialisation first, the generalization of both online and dematerialised payment, which is supposed to improve the service to the user, at the lowest cost to the administration, is an undeniable step forward. However, Minister, last year, at the same time, I expressed to you my concern about those people for whom Internet access is not as obvious as it is to you and me. In this regard, I note your willingness to enter into "a partnership with one or more community networks to enable more fragile audiences to continue using cash to pay their debts". Could you tell us who, precisely, will benefit from it, and how? The other major issue for the tax administration this year is the source levy. This is a method of sampling which, as you know, we are opposed to, and which still gives rise to many uncertainties in our fellow citizens today. Minister, the trust of taxpayers in your administration is critical in consenting to tax. So, is it normal that, again this year, DGFIP is the Directorate-General that supports the largest number of job deletions? In the face of the possible bugs and anomalies generated by the sampling at source, we will indeed need reactive agents to answer the questions of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u44	Looks like President Woerth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u45	It should be remembered that last year the tax administration had already had to absorb the removal of 1500 FTEs out of the 35,000 abolished since 1990. If these abolitions are part of the absolute need to reduce public expenditure, they should not be at the expense of the user service or the fight against tax fraud. In this regard, the development of data mining and artificial intelligence tools is a good thing, as it will facilitate control operations by identifying anomalies or fraudulent schemes, which will promote the fight against tax fraud to which our group is so attached. To conclude on this mission "Management of public finances and human resources", I note the Government's desire to develop a new territorial organization of services, which you call, Minister, an approach of deconcentration of proximity. What can be the deconcentration of deconcentration? What tasks do you intend to transfer from large urban centres to the forgotten territories of your policy? With regard to the mission "Management of the State's real estate assets", a note points to the catastrophic management of the State's real estate, an asset that would be disproportionate, obsolete, unsuitable, unmanaged and unoptimized. According to the Court of Auditors, the self-financing model would have reached its limits and the exponential cost of this housing stock – some 100 million square metres – would quickly become unsustainable for our public finances. It is therefore necessary to act quickly, because the State has for too long neglected the maintenance of its property, which it can no longer even give up. It seems that the lack of skills as management tools of the State Real Estate Directorate is a factor in this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u46	It's a cartoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u47	The same note points in fact to "a knowledge of the mediocre park, a colossal, uncontrolled real estate expenditure, with a deeply opaque structure, inadequate and poorly affected budgetary means" or "a failure of the State to value its assets because of incompetence, ineffective strategic choices and lack of knowledge of local community projects".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u48	I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u49	So what are you advocating, Minister, for better management of the state's housing stock? Therefore, many issues remain outstanding. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You will understand, therefore, that, without your specific answers to the questions that these missions call, the Republican Group will abstain from voting on these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u50	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u51	This mission is part of one of the major projects of the quinquennium: the control of public expenditure and its efficiency. The MODEM and related groups welcome the simplification of taxation – undertaken in the first part of the finance bill – which has led to the abolition of many small, low-yield taxes, like the flour tax which we were already asking for the abolition of last year. It should also be noted that, within the 2019 draft finance law, payroll accounts for 28.4% of the general state budget, i.e. EUR 131.7 billion. The size of this amount reflects the size of the number of people behind these gross figures. If they demand controlled and effective management, they also impose a human and progressive vision. The visibility of public officials must be taken into account, as requested by the public service unions, in order to allow changes to be anticipated and prepared by all. One of the major projects that awaits us is the reform of pensions. Particular attention should be paid, in discussions on this reform, to the remuneration structure of civil servants, so that it is connected with the reform of future pensions. Indeed, while the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the President of the Republic's ambition to establish a fairer, more readable and simpler system, this reform necessarily worries the French, who fear that their retirement will be less than it could have been. The pension reforms carried out in the last two decades have highlighted the problem of old schemes, which are no longer in line with the current economic reality of our country, and the reform requires the harmonisation of existing schemes. Above all, however, it must be ensured that it consolidates existing rights and does not deconstruct them. We must therefore accompany the transition while protecting its beneficiaries so that this reform can give new impetus to solidarity between the generations of our country. On the other hand, it should not contribute to the increase in inequalities or the deterioration of part of the population. The new system must be universal and transparent, in order to eliminate the inequalities between public and private, which mean that two people who have worked for the same number of years for the same salary do not receive the same pension. This situation is no longer acceptable. However, the consultations and discussions that have been put in place with the individuals concerned are necessary to ensure that the new system is truly fair, and that it does not make the public service and its remuneration less attractive. The MODEM and related group also supports funding under the 148 "Public Service" program for funding the training of public servants and interdepartmental social action. Indeed, the right to vocational training is now paramount. It allows civil servants to adapt to the new challenges they are obviously facing every day, to evolve professionally while maintaining or increasing their level of competence, and thus to be able to seize new opportunities. This measure demonstrates once again, after the adoption of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future by our assembly on 25 July, that vocational training is indeed the priority of our majority. In particular, training will help to maintain a high level of public service while reducing the number of agents. The MODEM Group would also like to welcome, once again, the desire to launch the budget, which is reflected here in the application of Article 11 of the Public Finance Programming Act for 2018-2022, according to which the ceiling on employment authorisations cannot exceed by more than 1% the consumption of jobs. The aim is to bring this ceiling and the appropriations allocated to staff costs into line. This measure of sound budgetary management will allow us to have a more realistic, therefore fairer, view of government jobs, and to follow them as closely as possible in order to adapt the means to the real needs. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the MODEM and related group will of course vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u52	The next speaker is Mr Hervé Saulignac, for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u53	Before dealing with the substantive issues relating to this budget discussion, I should like, in the preamble, to come back to the organisation of the examination of the second part of the PLF. The enlarged committees were certainly not an optimal mechanism, and I believe that this opinion is shared on all the benches. But I think I can say that the terms of the 2019 Finance Bill are also far from optimal. The twelfth budgetary debate, which is taking place this evening, is a perfect example of this. It brings together, without any consistency between the subjects, five budget missions and two trust accounts. Tonight, we will have to juggle state-run pensions, subsidized pension schemes, state property policy, public action reform, revenue collection, public service training policies, the definition of the level of undistributed credits, and the evaluation of repayments and rebates. As a reminder, the Law Commissioners reviewed the only "Public Service" program of the "Public Finance and Human Resources Management" mission for advice; The Social Affairs Commissioners, on the other hand, reviewed the two trust accounts, and the Finance Commissioners, logically, all of this budgetary discussion, but at two separate meetings. Let us acknowledge that there are still opportunities for improvement in the review of the second part of the PLF. I come to the bottom, focusing on a few specific topics. My colleague Christine Pires Beaune, the Special Rapporteur, has already said what is essential about the "Reimbursements and Discounts" mission. On the other missions, the Socialist and Related Group tabled four amendments. As the Brexit implementation date approaches and the prospect of a hard Brexit is less and less to be excluded, we consider that the additional customs recruitment plan for 2019 is not sufficient. We therefore propose to increase this recruitment to an additional 150 full-time equivalents next year. Secondly, the scandals of large-scale tax fraud and optimisation continue to make headlines. This is proof of the recent revelations in Le Monde about dividend fraud. Unfortunately, these revelations did not attract the media attention they deserved. We therefore propose to increase the human resources of the management of large companies by 136 full-time equivalents, in order to strengthen the fight against tax fraud, which cannot be delegated decently to investigative journalists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u54	I'm glad they're still here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u55	Another topic is the reform of the time-saving account – CET – of public officials. At last summer's salary appointment, the Government announced a €10 increase in the amount of the monetaryized TEC days – up until now less than the actual cost of a working day – along with a reduction in the trigger threshold from 20 to 15 days. Thus, agents who accumulate unworked days but do not compensate for them on rest, especially for the need for service, will be able to monetize them more easily, at a more advantageous price. That's a good thing. However, the amount of credits directed towards the funding of the time-saving account reform indicates that it will not apply to hospital public service employees. They would, however, be the first winners of the reform, and we therefore propose to increase funding so that it can be applied to all sides of our public service. Finally, we ask the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the residency allowance for civil servants. This allowance, which is currently allocated according to the duty station, is proportional to the index salary, and its rate depends on the area of administrative residence. But this zoning, which has become obsolete, does not make it possible to compensate for differences in the cost of living, particularly in Île-de-France and in the most tense areas. In addition, the residence allowance is now dependent on the place of work and not on the actual place of residence. It therefore does not take into account the actual cost of housing for the public official. During the review of the FLP for 2018, the topic had been referred to the report of the "Public Action 2022" committee. As this report has not been published, our amendment aims to revive the debate. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I therefore hope that we will discuss all these issues and that we will listen carefully to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u56	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Gomès, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u57	The mission "Management of Public Finance and Human Resources" brings together the appropriations of most of the staff of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For 2019, its budget is over EUR 10 billion in payment appropriations and just under EUR 11 billion in commitment authorisations, a decrease of 3.9% and 1.7%, respectively, compared to 2018. The Mission marks a visible objective of decreasing operating and staffing costs, which is intended to be accompanied by an increase in the efficiency of services. This will is in line with the path taken last year to redefine public policies, within the framework of the Public Action Committee 2022. The only programme with increased funding is programme 302, "Facilitating and securing trade", in particular with the creation of 250 additional jobs in the monitoring and clearance channels, in order to anticipate Brexit. With EUR 8 billion allocated to the fiscal and financial management of the State and the local public sector, the State is committed to improving efficiency in the fight against customs and tax fraud. While we welcome the Government's clear commitment to reducing public spending, we call for special attention to be paid to the ability of staff to achieve their stated objectives with reduced staffing levels. Moreover, this mission is part of a vast project to transform public action and to renew the relationship between the user and the public service, through measures such as the right to error or the one-stop shop. This policy requires an investment in digital technology, which must ensure an improvement in the quality of service to users and efficiency. The development of dematerialisation must go hand in hand with effective digital planning of the territory: our group is very attached to it, because it is the equal access of all our fellow citizens to public service. By an amendment to the first part of the FLP for 2019, Minister, we proposed a reflection on public service reform, which must be of great scope: I know you are committed to it. This reflection, the IUD group, Agir et indépendants had already reported on this on the occasion of the PLF for 2018, and we still regard it as paramount. In view of the sums involved, a genuine reform of the status and remuneration of staff is essential to accompany the control of the public wage bill. Can you inform us about the Government's vision on this central topic, what is the transformation of the status of the civil service? Finally, in the framework of the Public Action Programme 2022, you had presented several priority projects, including improving the quality of public service, with the guiding principle, I quote, "the deconcentration of proximity". We welcome this commitment and hope that it will be realized in the months or years to come. The deconcentration of proximity is of course a major axis of the development of our administration in the territories and neighbourhoods. Subject to these few questions, the IUD Group, Action and Independents will vote on the appropriations allocated to the mission "Management of public finances and human resources".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u58	Thank you, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u59	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u60	Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u61	In this budget discussion, I will refer to three missions – including the mission "Management of public finances and human resources" – which suffer from the austere obsession that deeply disorganizes the heart of the state services. I would, however, like to refer first to a few formulas used in committee by my colleagues in the majority. They seem to me brilliantly to illustrate, in fact, this "novlangue" which undermines the intelligibility of our debates. Thus, the elimination of thousands of jobs in public finances, of which Mr. Saint-Martin was keeping us, is, I quote, part of a "job pattern". Is it not a "schedule of dismissals"? Another pearl of "novlangue" that should mark the parliamentary annals: the priority of your majority is, I quote, "to give air to the disruptive, daring and risky IT investment". Despite studies of letters and a taste for the analysis of texts, I must admit that I do not understand anything about this thread of terms. They no doubt reflect this "complex thought" which, decisively, escapes me. On the other hand, I fully grasped the introductory statement made by Mrs Motin in committee, who announced: "Among the major projects of the quinquennium, there is one that we all care about: the control of public expenditure and its efficiency. Well, no! The "control of public spending" – hear its decline – does not hold us particularly close to heart, as Members of Parliament of France are insoubted. And we are millions of people in this country who believe that we must stop "modernizing public action", that is to say, abolishing posts in already rolled public services, and stop making "structuring choices" which, I am sure, will be "disruptive". Disruptive! What's disruptive, for example? Performance, which must now be more integrated into the remuneration of agents? The cult of individualism? The break in collective rights? The competition between agents? I'm sorry, we don't run a country like a company. Do you think, moreover, that we will be "performing", as you say, to fight tax evasion if we bleed the public tax service? Last year, you deleted 1600 full-time equivalents; This time, a decrease of 1862 positions is announced. Do you think that in this way we will be "performing" to improve the competitiveness of our companies, as you wish, which are facing the fiscal and administrative maquis? These reductions in the business tax department will directly affect SMEs, with 833 posts being abolished, in addition to the 636 fewer posts in 2018. These are fewer agents to accompany the TPEs in their efforts and tax calculations. These reductions will also have an impact on the support provided to local and regional authorities, with 464 fewer jobs in this area. Let us remember that Bercy largely supports the austerity policy of previous governments: since 2002, this administration has already lost a third of its staff. It is the very heart of the sovereign functions of the State that is thus undermined. I come to the "Unallocated Credits" mission. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to stress its programme 552, which is particularly indicative of your short-term policy. This is the "Incidental and Unforeseeable Expenditures" program. No one is unaware of the recent findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which sound alarmed at the dramatic consequences of ongoing global warming. And no one is questioning the proliferation of climate events resulting from this warming. If these events are unpredictable in detail, we must nevertheless prepare for them better. However, the EUR 124 million allocated to the programme is clearly insufficient: the only means of emergency deployed in the face of Hurricane Irma amounted to almost EUR 163 million and more than 3000 agents and volunteers had been required in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u62	And you are for the "yellow vests": you should know...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u63	I will conclude by referring to the mission "Public Action and Transformation". Created in 2018, it has the function not only to accompany our state's policy of detanglement, by reducing the number of civil servants, but also to launch the start-up nation and implement the technical-bureaucratic fantasy of the Government. The "Fonds pour la transformation de l'action publique" programme only includes projects relating to big data, artificial intelligence, the dematerialisation of demands, the machine learning for Météo France, the cloud for higher education and research... A machine administration for admins transformed into robots, that's what you call modernity! It's a nice dress for a fiscal policy that seems mostly inspired by a Balzac title: The Skin of Grief.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u64	That was more like it. A dark case...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u65	It's Human Comedy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u66	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u67	Welcome to the Chamber, Minister responsible for relations with Parliament! We could have spent it together on the white night that took us to the early morning today: we waited a long time for you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u68	There will be other opportunities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u69	I would like to focus my remarks on the very worrying state of the Customs and Indirect Duties Directorate, DGDDI. The customs budget is totally contradictory: it is a question, in anticipation of Brexit, of hiring 700 customs officers over three years, we are told, of which 350 from 2019...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u70	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u71	... while abolishing 100 customs posts, in the continuation of the abolition of 6000 posts in 20 years. The figure of 700 customs officers suggests that the needs are clearly underestimated, which is very serious and will have far-reaching consequences. As you know, Ministers, Secretary of State, Brexit poses a huge border problem. The French maritime facade shares with the United Kingdom a direct border – which is next to my constituency – but also a very large number of air and land entrances: spaces as different as the Gare du Nord in Paris, the ports of Dieppe, Roscoff, Ouistreham, the Gare de Marne-la-Vallée and all the places where airlines have lines connecting France to the United Kingdom. In just four months, it will therefore take customs offices in all these places to ensure that the French border is not completely reduced to a passory. But the control offices are not even yet built and future controls will be carried out by officials who will not have the human resources to do the work. While the result of the vote on Brexit was known on 24 June 2016, nothing was done by the state to anticipate what was going to happen. Since then, we have passed two finance bills for nothing, and it is only the third, when we are back to the wall, that we are talking about hiring customs officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u72	This was already done last year...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u73	That smells like rush. Finally, the 300 jobs that will be filled in 2019 will only compensate for the understaffing, so that the increase in the number of posts linked to Brexit will not make it possible to remedy the weakness of French customs. The customs situation in our ports, including Le Havre, also leads to a serious lack of reliability due to a staggering lack of equipment and personnel: it is less than 0.5% of the 2.5 million containers that are checked. The fact that customs are in chronic understaffing already makes it impossible to monitor French imports and exports. We have only twenty-five controllers in Le Havre, who can make about two visits a day per person: this is ridiculous in view of the challenges of international trade, counterfeits, the circulation of drugs – as in all ports in Europe – and all other illegal trafficking. With the best will in the world, customs officers are already unable to properly monitor trade flows between France and other countries. The Brexit will lead to the redesign of our customs card to deal with the urgency, which will ultimately only move the problem. It is not with 700 additional posts in three years that the situation will change! It would take 700 jobs from next year to ensure a return to power. A customs officer pays seven times as much money as it costs: it is an investment that deserves to be considered, ladies and gentlemen! The project formulated by the government falls far short of our country's future needs. We must not forget that DGDDI protects consumers when its agents identify counterfeits and prevent products that are dangerous to health or the environment, which do not comply with our standards, from being bought in France. It is therefore consumers who will ultimately suffer from this lack of control: they risk falling on products, especially toys – Christmas approaches – imported in disregard of the most basic health standards applicable in our country. Customs also plays a role with companies, since it works directly with export and logistics players. We are therefore also depriving ourselves of the administrative fluidity so much demanded by companies. More customs officers, in fact, are more export certificates verified and signed, so more goods can circulate, for the benefit of French companies. This is something you should be more vigilant about. The closure of the secondary customs office in Evreux, for example, is of great concern to the logistics companies in Eure, because obtaining administrative papers will now take a long time. This is not how we will make our businesses competitive; Yet that was the meaning of your mandate and your action. Beyond these problems, the budget for 2019 remains too unsatisfactory for Communist members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to vote on the appropriations submitted to us tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u74	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, for the Group of the European People's Party on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u75	Mr Secretary of State, the French and French are attached to the public service, a vehicle for equality between citizens and between territories. Public service is based on the dedication of its agents – we must remind it here with strength; It is therefore the duty of the State to accompany them as best as possible. The Government has announced its willingness to reform the civil service in depth in order to provide citizens with a quality service while at the same time fulfilling our objectives of limiting public expenditure, which means, as we know, reducing the number of civil servants. We can only welcome this desire for modernization, which, it must be said, contrasts with the attentism of previous governments. To meet this challenge, we must redefine the social contract between the state and its agents. You have already outlined the thrusts of your reform: the development of contract-making, remuneration to merit, as well as the encouragement of mobility and conversion. These are all promising leads on which it is our duty to accompany you. Public service officials should not fear these developments: redefining their missions will make them more fulfilling; by offering them opportunities for mobility, new horizons will be opened up. The developments that you are suggesting, Secretary of State, will lead us to the public service of the 21st century. To be at the service of the State and of the general interest, this is a good job! To preserve it, we need to change it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Can you share with us the state of your thoughts on public service reform? How can we, as members of the national representation, accompany you in this process?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u76	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u77	We opened the consultation soon a year ago, on February 1, 2018, after the interdepartmental committee on public transformation and around four projects decided by the Prime Minister. The first aims to simplify social dialogue without calling into question the rights of agents, in order to gain fluidity and responsiveness. The second concerns the possibility, to which you referred, of individualising the remuneration of agents, of taking into account their commitment and the particular constraints to which they are subjected, of resorting to individual and collective mechanisms of interest, in order to take into account their ability to achieve the results set by the hierarchy, the administrative authority. The purpose of the third project is to give employers more freedom in recruitment so that they can hire contract workers more easily. In this context, we will provide guarantees for the recruitment of contractors and improve the conditions of employment of these agents, who are already 1.2 million of the 5.4 million public servants. Finally, the fourth project concerns mobility, whether it concerns access to training or accompanying the reclassification of staff involved in restructuring or reorganisation of services. In all cases, we will ensure that staff are accompanied either by training or in a more material way, in order to guarantee the right to reclassification, follow-up in the event of restructuring and the success of the reorganization of State services. Other projects will be opened, specific to the territorial civil service; They will also concern training, but also working time, without calling into question the legal duration of 1607 hours a year, but in order to guarantee its effectiveness. There will also be a discussion of professional equality between women and men in the civil service, if the majority of trade union organisations vote in favour of the draft protocol that we addressed to them two weeks ago. In early 2019, Gérald Darmanin and I will present a public service transformation project resulting from this consultation. The best way for you, parliamentarians, to accompany us on this path is, of course, to make proposals to us by this date and to be with us during the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u78	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Labaronne, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u79	Special pension plans specific to RATP and SNCF are the subject of the Mission's Social and Pension Plans Program 198. The latest annual performance report available, covering the implementation of the 2017 financial year, states that the State's strategy since 2008 is to gradually align its parameters with those of the civil service. The provisions of the Pension Reform Act of November 2010 and those of the January 2014 law guaranteeing the future and justice of the pension system are in line with this perspective. These pension schemes are not directly managed by the State, but by social security agencies. However, the State must ensure the proper management of the various schemes and ensure that a quality service is provided to their beneficiaries, at the best cost to the national community. It is the State, in fact, which finances them mainly. In view of this particular functioning and the essential role that the State plays in the balance of these regimes, what concrete progress, Mr Secretary of State, has been made over the last ten years in favour of convergence between these special systems and those of the civil service? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the context of the ambitious and profound reform of the pension system entrusted to Jean-Paul Delevoye, will these advances facilitate the dialogue and practical implementation of the reform in order to reach a consensus on a fair and balanced model?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u80	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u81	Since 2008 – as you have reminded us, Member – three major reforms have allowed the gradual convergence of pension calculation rules under the RATP and SNCF systems, on the one hand, and the public service system, on the other. The latter is gradually becoming closer to the rules of the private sector. In particular, the 2008 reform of special schemes allowed the harmonisation of the insurance period required to benefit from the full rate compared to other schemes – private employees as civil servants; introduce haircut and surcote mechanisms within special schemes in order to encourage and reward the continuation of the activity; to put into effect certain changes in duration which were no longer justified; Finally, to index the pensions of special schemes on prices rather than on wages alone, since 2009. The following reforms, which occurred in 2010 and 2014 were cross-cutting, common to all pension schemes. They continued the process of convergence by increasing the minimum retirement age in all plans by two years and by increasing the length of service required to obtain the full rate, in order to monitor progress in life expectancy. However, as you said, the special schemes you mentioned retain specificities, in particular the minimum retirement ages, earlier than 62 years for all or part of the affiliated agents – 52 years for RATP and SNCF rolling agents, 57 years for other SNCF agents. More generally, all public sector schemes have the special feature of membership in a single pension scheme, paying a pension based on the remuneration of the last six months, and of a liquidation coefficient of around 75%, while private sector employees are affiliated to two separate schemes – a basic scheme based on the best 25 years of remuneration, with a liquidation coefficient of 50%, and a supplementary scheme per point, AGIRC-ARRCO – General Association of Executive Retirement Institutions, Association for the Supplementary Pension Scheme of Employees – which accounts for a considerable proportion of executive retirement – all too often forgotten, moreover, in comparisons between public and private. To some extent, when looking at these different parameters, public sector regimes can be seen as simpler than those of the private sector. The Government's approach, notably by the Pension Reform Commissioner, Jean-Paul Delevoye, is to achieve a simpler, more readable pension system with the harmonisation of the rules of forty-two different pension schemes, in order to achieve greater simplicity. The convergence measures implemented since 2008 will promote the harmonization desired by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u82	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u83	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Public Finance and Human Resources Management", listed in Statement B. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1447, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u84	By this appeal amendment, we propose to maintain at the same level as in 2018 the appropriations of Program 156, which concern the means of local tax services, those which are in direct contact with individuals. This would involve the appropriation of programme 128, namely for Bercy's central services. I recall the decrease of 1673 jobs planned for 2019 after a bleed, in 2018, of 1600 annual full-time equivalents worked – ETPT. How can we claim to fight against tax fraud with such a clear cut in the numbers of those who are precisely responsible for tax control? While the departments involved in these reductions are those responsible for accompanying SMEs, they are also those responsible for the collection and control of personal taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u86	Unfavorable opinion. However, with this appeal amendment, Mrs Rubin, you are dealing directly with the debate, a unfortunately dogmatic debate between those who, for your part, are demanding more public officials and therefore more appropriations for Bercy, and those who are more right-wing, who believe that not enough public officials are being abolished, that public expenditure is not being reduced enough. But what we are looking for, for our part, is what I will call the right number, the right credits, the "right title 2" – the title concerning staff costs – which must be linked to the real needs of administrations and to the evolution of their missions. Therefore, rather than proposing amendments aimed at cancelling reductions in appropriations or cancelling staff costs, it seems to me more appropriate to try to adapt the number of jobs to the new tasks of the administrations. In the end, this is what Public Action 2022 proposes: rethinking public services in relation to usage, with Title 2 being only the result of this work and not of a cut or a dogmatic increase in the number of public officials. And, since we are talking about FIPB, yes, its tasks are evolving, whether they are, of course, the levy at source, the progressive abolition of the housing tax, for the most important, or the abolition of several small, low-yield taxes. The Public Action 2022 programme provides for service developments such as moving towards "zero cash" in municipal cash, or that intended to improve the efficiency of the work at the counter by making appointments, not to mention the work of bringing territorial collection services closer together, as was recalled during the introductory discussion. For all these reasons, logically, the need for public officials within FIPB is less. So here, I repeat, there is no question of cuts but of adaptations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u88	Negative opinion also; The Special Rapporteur has said this very well: we do not have the same conception of things and we will be able to see this throughout the discussion. The organization of our debates does not allow me to respond to the speakers who spoke during the opening discussion, but here I have the opportunity to say what I am hearing... Indeed, several Members have asked me about a number of issues, including MM. Parigi and Lecoq. Mr Parigi – I thank you, by the way, for your encouragement – you refer to a number of ideas which are a bit contrary to those which your political group or previous ministers in charge of public accounts and which, I believe, had your favor and which you sometimes knew well. For example, Mr. Copé himself advocated collection at source.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u89	Everyone's opinion...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u90	I hear well, but I was sorry that Meaux' microclimate has no influence on the matter on Mr. Copé's successor...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u91	Admit that each other can think differently!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u92	Of course. However, it is not true to say that the levy at source is a reform conceived by the Government or by the previous government since President Giscard d'Estaing, President Chirac, several ministers of economics and finance such as Thierry Breton or, therefore, Jean-François Copé, were very in favour of the levy at source. I would also like to thank Mr Copé for having recently reminded him of this. Secondly, I do not understand very well that the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Woerth, who belongs to your political group, constantly reproaches us for not abolishing more posts and not reducing public expenditure further. We can certainly hear this position, quite consistent, in substance, with what you defend...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u93	That's the position you defended yourself two years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u94	But we are actually reducing public spending and effectively removing positions, honourable Member. I am also very pleased to have brought you out of your torpor, since you were not present at the time of Mr Parigi's intervention...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u95	I was following you on TV!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u96	[[Smile]] I don't know where you were and I'm not interested enough; In any case, you were not in the Chamber at the time when we were talking about it, and that is a shame because Mr Parigi's speech was balanced. And I did not emphasize the inconsistency of Mr Parigi's speech, but I put him against the positions defended by the political group to which he belongs – as far as I can judge because of the happiness I have had every night, for many weeks, sitting here alongside President Woerth. What matters is what the Special Rapporteur said and what he wrote in his reports this year and last year: missions are changing and it is a challenge for the Directorate-General for Public Finance. Let us consider the abolition of the housing tax. I recently went to Poitiers where half of the claims, in local cash, relate to the housing tax. As in all student cities, it is difficult to establish this tax: claims, discounts, spreads... represent, I insist, 50% of the working time of public finance officers at the counter. With the removal of the housing tax we give back purchasing power to our fellow citizens, we make local taxation fairer and we free up time for public finance agents, which they can now devote to the council. We innovate when we enter the single financial account by merging the management and administrative accounts. When I was elected, I never understood the real difference between the two: we spend very little time examining the administrative account – and again, if you have a good opposition – and none to examine the management account. With regard to the experiments planned by the PLF for accounting agencies, in particular for large local authorities, they will save the officers of the Directorate-General for Public Finance time. I was asked what network would be responsible for experiments. A call for tenders is planned for 2020-2021. This will be a territorialised call for tenders so that large companies do not win all the calls. I have already told the ruralists, faced with the increase in the price of tobacco – and, let us admit, there are more buralists than cash – who are already agents carrying out various steps on behalf of the administration: one can buy a tax stamp in a tobacco office for example. The Post Office, a large public company, which has much more points of contact with the population than the public finances have, must, for its part, face a particular challenge: the collapse of the traffic in mail. Nevertheless, it has public service tasks to carry out. The Post Office, the Buralists or any other network can thus meet the right to pay its tax in cash. Indeed, so far, every year, the ministers lowered the amount from which one can pay his tax at the counter: I have done it myself, I have sinned a lot, mea maxima culpa.( Smiles.) [[Smile]] Of the 23 orders in the 2018 Finance Bill, it is the only one I have not taken, and I assume it. Indeed, I considered it to be perhaps smarter measures to be taken. With the Director General of Public Finance here, we went to Évreux, a very friendly trip... I know that this pragmatic way of doing politics pleases you, Mr. President, and I see to your pleasure that you share this excellent opinion on the actions of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u97	[[Smile]] I can't say anything, minister. Tonight, I'm the mute of the serail.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u98	For once that happens, Mr President, I am very happy with your mine, it says with all the friendship I have for you and all the respect I have for your function. [[Smile]] So I'm going to the cash counter at Evreux and what's going on? A charming lady, the teller in this case, tells us, while there is a world – and crowding is sometimes a problem when we expect answers or payments – that cash payment is the plague. We are very satisfied with this, as we have all voted for a reduction in the threshold from which we can pay our tax at the counter. "Not at all, Mr.Minister, not at all, Mr. Director General," she replied, and I witness the Director General of Public Finance who, too, cannot speak and who, on the other hand, still agrees with his minister – so I am sure that I am not upset when I speak to you. "It's the wound," continues the lady, "because when we drop the amount from which you can pay your tax at the counter, people sometimes come twice with different amounts. So you think you're taking a simplification step and, in fact, you're encouraging affluence at the counter. It is therefore necessary to know how to change the tasks of the administration. It is no longer for public finance officers to recover cash, and we must end up with what the Special Rapporteur called "zero cash", which is also called "zero cash". This is the end of cash in the DGFIP network, cash which poses many security problems and costs a lot to deal with. At the same time, it must be understood that, in rural areas, or for elderly people, people deprived of bank accounts or over-indebted individuals, it may be preferable to pay their taxes with cash, or it may not be possible to do otherwise. However, other networks than FIPB can handle this collection. It is thanks to this kind of transformation of one of its tasks that the tax administration will be able to better support SMEs. The levy at source will also simplify the lives of the French, save full-time equivalents, and the DGFIP remains the beautiful and great administration that everyone wants and worships.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u99	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u100	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u101	I am not a member of the Committee on Finance and I take this opportunity to ask you, Ministers, about local currencies, which I hope are taken into account by perceptions. I hope that, in our regions where it exists, we can pay with a local currency for the canteen in the town halls, or other services of this kind. I will not go back to the definition of a local currency, those interested in it have seen how much its existence had served the development of Germany and many other countries – it exists in Switzerland – how much it allows a certain "protectionism" or the spread of regional products. It seems to me that the tax administration should look into this and, if there is a reform, integrate the local currency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u102	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1835.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u103	The purpose of this amendment is to increase the staff of the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties – DGDDI – by 10%, i.e. 150 ETPT, for the reasons I mentioned in my opening statement. The year 2019 should indeed be that of the application of Brexit, whose conditions are not yet known accurately but which can enter into force without agreement with the European Union. We therefore consider it necessary to strengthen the human resources of DGDDI. In reading the Budget Blue "Public Finance and Human Resources Management", we learn that the Government plans to recruit 700 customs officers for the period 2018-2020, including 350 in 2019. However, it is also learned that the net creation of customs jobs in 2019 will in fact be 250 since 100 are "returned" under the Public Action 2022 program. We therefore believe that recruitment does not cover the needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u105	The logic is exactly the same for DGDDI as for DGFIP. It is therefore, once again, a matter of focusing on the right need for staff. You propose to add the recruitment of 150 customs officers to an increase of 350 FTEs corresponding to the special needs of the entry into force of the Brexit. But you have seen it yourself: we do not know how the additional customs officers will be deployed, whether they are the posts created last year or those that will be created in 2019. Despite some notable progress today, we do not know exactly what the content of the agreement will be and what tasks will be asked of customs officers after Brexit. But we still have to remember the effort made over the past several years to strengthen the staff of the DGDDI. Mr Lecoq, you know the subject very well: I had come to visit the port of Le Havre at your invitation – I would like to thank you again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u106	It was a pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u107	What struck me was the extent to which the port authorities welcomed the extremely efficient and, above all, extremely complementary work carried out by customs officers in the port of Le Havre; I wanted to say it publicly. The question again is whether the number of customs officers required to carry out the tasks entrusted to them is sufficient. Public action 2022 is one thing; The specific needs to fight terrorism in previous years, then for Brexit in 2018, 2019 and probably 2020, are another. We are therefore strengthening the capacity of DGDDI to meet the challenge of Brexit. We have already planned an increase of 350 posts, which we will increase to almost 1000: it is reasonable to stick to this until we know exactly what the outcome of this agreement is. I invite you to discuss this again next year, at about the same time, when we will know more about this agreement and therefore about the new tasks of the customs authorities. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u109	I will also reply to Mr Lecoq's speech on customs. Mr President, I obviously give you an unfavorable opinion; The rapporteur's comments are very correct. I would add that it is really without ideology that we must address this question: how can we, in the best possible worlds, cope with this quite surprising and original event in the history of Europe and the relationship between our two countries, namely a divergence of standards between countries separated by a border? And what a border! Maritime border, airport border, near land border with the Channel Tunnel: this places France in a particular position vis-à-vis Britain and the English coast. We cannot know right now the exact number of FTEs we will need, since we do not even know, at the time we are talking, the particular legal link that will unite us with our British friends. From this point of view, we can prepare for the worst. This is the only and only compass of the mission that we entrusted, Olivier Dussopt and I, to the Director General of Customs and Indirect Rights following the inter-ministerial meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. Just pretend there's no legal connection with Britain! There is, however, a legal link with Great Britain since it has accepted a transit agreement; She even asked for it. We must therefore distinguish – this is an important point – the legal relationship enshrined in the Treaty that would bind us with our English friends, providing for a transitional period and then the departure of Great Britain from the European Union, and the transit agreement, which makes it possible to simplify much of the trade between our two countries. Secondly, extremely different cases must be mentioned. First of all, you said yourself, as well as Mr Lecoq, that we had nothing to propose: that is not quite right. Last year, and even if you did not vote for this provision, which we can only regret – you would probably have done if the vote could have been divided by measure – we recruited and trained customs officers at the school in Tourcoing and La Rochelle, who will be stationed in February and March next; This is already the case for several hundred of them. We did nothing because we increased those numbers outside the usual competition, to go faster – a good and beautiful step taken by the Director General of Customs – and with the aim of training them on particular aspects of the link that will unite us with Britain. On the other hand, the question arises differently depending on the geographical locations we refer to. First of all, customs officials do not spend their time controlling all the goods that pass through all the ports, all the airports and all the borders, even when we do not have a legal link with certain countries: that is to say! They're targeting, counseling and customs clearance. These are no longer customs "to the daddy", if you allow me this expression: by walking around the airport of Roissy, you will be able to see that a special automatic customs clearance has been put in place. It was not I who decided that, but the previous government, which you supported, Mr. This is one of the first things I saw on the night of my appointment as Minister of Public Accounts. As a result, today a better public service is provided to French and foreigners who leave our territory and automatically clear their customs; They can even do it remotely. They go to Galeries Lafayette,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u110	So the previous government did a good job!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u111	[[Smile]] Yes, of course, I am very happy to say that, and that is why Olivier Dussopt joined us. It is right to recognize this, while we are in charge. I am particularly pleased to say that the Director General of Customs who is now acting under my authority was my predecessor's. He did a good job with his teams. The dematerialization of procedures renders services to foreigners as well as French, to our industry, in particular to the tourism industry and to the luxury industry, and avoids full-time equivalents. There is no reason why the dematerialization of successful procedures at airports cannot be done in ports, especially for trucks, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u112	It's already started!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u113	This has already begun, even if they are a little late, it must be said, in particular because our friends at the ports of Le Havre, Dunkirk and Calais – tomorrow, the Prime Minister, together with Olivier Dussopt, will meet the interministerial committee of the sea in Dunkirk – have not yet agreed on an automatic exchange of information. They must also take their share of responsibility, but, you are right, it has begun. We must reach an agreement with our English friends on a dematerialized trading system. This will allow customs officers to focus on targeting and stop the trucks that appear to them to be the most suspicious, without having to control all the goods. We really have the impression that Brexit is the restoration of borders, that we should control everything at all times: this is obviously not the way it will be. Second, rather deep, even though the Brexit commission meeting of your honourable senators' friends has shed some light on this point: it is not true that this will create huge lines of trucks, especially in Calais, which is the most important case, even if it can also happen in Le Havre, in some places in Brittany and New Aquitaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u114	To Ouistreham!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u115	A little in Ouistreham, a little in Dieppe but more likely in Calais, which has several problems: the tunnel, the port, very complex migratory difficulties. Brexit is not a problem of flow of people going to England; We are not going to control the French trucks leaving for England: this is the problem of the English. We'll check the English trucks arriving in France. We are not going to set up customs offices at every port entrance to control all trucks going to Britain. The customs problem of Brexit is to know where the border is – this is a very important point, because it may pose other problems for the question of men. Do we accept that the English control in France trucks heading towards their territory from Calais, Dunkirk, Le Havre or Ouistreham? We have to discuss it with them, but the answer is rather no. On the other hand, how do we control trucks coming from England? From this point of view, we can add hundreds of full-time equivalents, but one of the best solutions is to agree with our English friends, in order to make checks from England, to avoid the difficulties you mention. The question therefore does not relate to 10, 15, 20, 100 or 200 additional full-time equivalents: what is the legal link between us and them, what is the transitional period, how to put these controls in place, how to combat smuggling, differences in standards, and drug trafficking? We do not even know, as I speak to you, the exact geographical distribution of the full-time equivalents we have recruited. Will it be in Dunkirk, Calais, where a customs office will be established, as we announced after several visits with the Director General of Customs? At this very moment we are buying a plot of land equidistant from the entrance of the port and the tunnel – it is not true that we do nothing! I would also like to thank the tunnel company, the city of Calais and the department of Pas-de-Calais for providing us with a number of land. Will these full-time equivalents be assigned to Le Havre, whose port is very different from that of Calais for the development, or to Dieppe, where we will go to your fellow Member, Mr Jumel? The fisheries issues, as in Boulogne-sur-Mer, are still different, because they are mainly agricultural problems and not customs problems. So it is more a problem of organization and technological challenge than full-time equivalents: if 50, 100 or 200 FTEs were missing to succeed in Brexit, I would be the first to propose them to you. Today, we do not even know the distribution in ports and airports, because we still do not know the legal link that will unite us with our English friends. We act as if there were none, even if the latest information shows that there might be one. In any case, what is certain, honourable Member, is that we have a transit agreement: it greatly helps customs to function well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u116	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u117	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Faced with the fetishism of some, or with a certain fetishism in terms of expenditure, deficit or increase in the number of officials, I wanted, since you mentioned Brittany, Mr.Minister, to make a comparison with the exploit of Breton Francis Joyon, of which we did not talk enough: on the night of Sunday to Monday, after an extraordinary finish and with a budget three or four times less than that of the big stables, he had the following words concerning the meaning and organization of the team: "The key to success was my little super-sold team. [...] We have a functioning where every gesture made in the year was not there to fill out a salary sheet but for something that made sense in relation to the Route du Rhum. The result is here. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u118	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u119	Minister, I have never said that your action in this area is very inadequate. You suggested that I would have said you didn't do anything: no, I didn't say anything about it! On the contrary, I recalled that over the next three years you wanted to create 700 jobs in the customs department, so it is good that the question of means and the creation, or not, of full-time equivalents is a real subject. I grant you that it is difficult to have a debate today on the additional means that Brexit calls for. Nevertheless, we believe that it should be anticipated. This amendment only restores your initial commitment, because we believe that there is a need for additional staff, and not just for Brexit; But what you are proposing to us today is not up to the needs. That being said, as I understand it, you are prepared to show flexibility in this matter and to come back to this issue in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u120	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u121	The minister sometimes likes to feel attacked: it gives him the energy to defend himself! Even when you don't attack him, he's capable of feeling a little victim!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u122	It's a way to exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u123	Yes, it's true, some of them carbide at it! As far as the guidelines are concerned, I have seen your answer very well. However, what will be the entrances to our country? Will, after Brexit, we consider that all lines with Great Britain remain lines, so entries? Can we come to Roscoff, Ouistreham, Cherbourg, Dieppe with merchandise? Will this remain because it reassures the territories in terms of economy? This means that the territory, including customs, will have to be organised according to this political choice – it is on the political choice that you are being questioned. Or will you end up saying that, given disagreements with Britain, we only choose a few doors? It would be anything else in terms of numbers. To date, no one has given an answer: we remain in the expectation, just like the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u124	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u125	To respond clearly to the honourable Member, it is clear that the current trade and transit doors with Great Britain will remain transit and trade links with Great Britain everywhere. Although summer has been a cause for concern, we are even seeking to recover other ties, particularly from Ireland, and the port of Le Havre,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u126	Don't talk about corridors! I didn't want to victimize you, even if I wanted to.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u127	I can hear you. You and your group may have wanted to say that this summer, in particular in the Netherlands and Belgium, we let go the question of the corridor and the attachment of Ireland; It is true that competition is very harsh with the ports of Dunkirk and Le Havre, in particular. According to the Commission's first statements, it was not in France. We have always said – you have seen Mrs Borne's reaction – that the port of Le Havre could be Ireland's home port because it is it that is concerned – but Dunkirk and Calais could also be. In Roscoff, in Ouistreham, in Cherbourg, nothing will change and we will put the means necessary for customs officers to answer questions. But I repeat, Mr President, the problem, from a customs point of view, is not the departure from Cherbourg to Great Britain, but the arrival of Great Britain to Cherbourg. On the other hand, Brexit is not just a customs issue, even if it is essentially one. It is also a matter of border police. Customs sometimes carries out border police operations: at the airports of Brittany or La Rochelle, for example, customs officers do the work of the border police. As such, it is also a customs matter, but it is mainly a matter of border police. The Minister of the Interior is very mobilised for Dunkirk, Calais and other places where an exchange of people actually takes place. You know that the British are numerous on French soil, not only for tourism but also by the property link they may have, especially in New Aquitaine, Brittany or Normandy. This is also part of the economies of the territories. I would also like to stress the agricultural question, because, whether it is in Ouistreham, Dieppe or Boulogne-sur-Mer, the question is not only customs: it is essentially agricultural. One of the problems that we have to solve with our English friends is the protection of the common market and consumers, and that is without awakening old polemics, because if there is something that reminds the French and Europeans in general of bad memories, it is indeed the problem of importing agricultural products from Britain. There is an administrative and health challenge on the English side – I would remind you that there is almost no health administration on the other side of the English Channel. It's a real problem. We are pretty sure that the goods that will cross the English Channel will not have been controlled in England. This is a very important issue that all ministers have had to face – Didier Guillaume after Stéphane Travert – and which, from Calais to Boulogne-sur-Mer, justifies a very large increase in the number of personnel responsible, alongside customs officers, for controlling the fishing and processing of fishery products. This is why customs officers will now be able to accompany their colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture to Calais and Boulogne-sur-Mer at night, but also to Dieppe and other Norman ports. If, on this point, the most sensitive in reality, the territories and national representation ask legitimate questions, I encourage them to address them to the Minister responsible for customs, but also to the Minister of Agriculture, whose services are likely to face difficulties in implementing them in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u128	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1836.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u129	I assume that, for you, the question of the workforce of the management of large companies, DGE, which comes in support of the direction of national and international audits, DVNI, is not a subject either. In any event, this amendment proposes to increase the human resources of this Directorate by 10%, which is designed to combat tax fraud by large companies. I do not think that this need can be challenged, as the revelations of last year as well as the most recent have shown the massive nature of the optimisation and tax fraud carried out by very large companies and which translate each year into several tens of billions of euros in loss of profits for France. You will answer that this is not a problem of full-time equivalents, that it does not require additional resources but another way of working. We believe, for our part, that the question of human means always becomes an issue. While the bill to strengthen the fight against fraud has just been finally passed, it is clear from the reading of this finance bill that, in 2019, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts will lose 2,314 full-time equivalents. This reinforces our conviction that there is a subject to be addressed and that there is a need to strengthen this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u131	The need to strengthen the fight against tax fraud by large companies is not questionable; What is questionable is that this must involve an increase in the staffing and appropriations of the CEO. Instead, I would refer you to the many recommendations contained in the excellent report by Émilie Cariou on the anti-fraud bill, which proposes to strengthen the legal means available to the tax administration or to improve the exchange of information between administrations. It is by improving these tools and targeting that we will strengthen the effectiveness of the fight against fraud by large companies, much more than by a purely accounting increase in the number of employees of the DGE, even though I understand the call you make through this amendment. For example, a project winning the first call for projects under the Public Action Transformation Fund, the FTAP, which falls within the scope of my special report, values the targeting of tax fraud by improving the exchange of information between administrations, and first of all between the different services in Bercy, in particular between DGFIP and DGDDI. That is the key to the problem, and that is why the Committee on Finance has asked the Court of Auditors for a report on IT investments to improve data mining in this area. Finally, Mr.Member, the annual performance project indicates that the appropriations for Objective 1, which includes the taxation of large companies, are up 3.5 million commitment authorities, 3.8 million payment appropriations and 41 FTEs for 2019, an increase of 3%. Since you yourself referred to the record of the previous mandate, I would remind you that between 2013 and 2017, you voted for a 5% reduction in FTEs under Objective 1. It is therefore you who have taken away from the fight against fraud by large companies the public jobs that we recreate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u133	I will let Mr Dussopt complete my answer, but there are several things that bother me in your amendment, even if the debate is legitimate. It is wrong to say – I know that this is not what you said, but I would like to take this opportunity to correct a common mistake – that large companies would be the ones that would be the least controlled. This is statistically not true: on the contrary, they are 40% more likely to be controlled than an SME. Similarly, the richest people are more often controlled than those who are less controlled. Secondly, many controls do not give anything – about 20%, the Director General of Public Finance tells me. We can regret it, not that control does not give anything, but that we had a lot to bother a company and occupied FTEs who could have controlled people who had things to blame for. This is proof that we need to improve the modalities of tax control, first by reducing the number of general checks and by increasing the number of special checks, on corporate taxes, transfer prices and VAT. Today, 90% of the controls are general. The controlled company does not know why it is and the controller may be less sharpened than when it controls a specific point. One could also define a policy of tax controls, why not in the context of a debate before national representation. The Minister of Public Accounts cannot say that there is a need to do any kind of control, but he can rely on information provided by DGFIP or Tracfin, or on scandals echoed by the press, to decide to launch tax controls on a particular type of business and for a particular type of fraud. Thus, the fraud of energy certificates has led us to control certain companies in order to combat this falsification, which cost taxpayers a few billion euros. The third issue is the technical means available to tax auditors. How to select folders to make control more effective? This may involve strengthening control over coins through the systematization of automatic exchanges of administrative documents, establishing a relationship of trust with the controlled in the context of the right to error – I will shortly discuss this with parliamentarians about the future law enforcement order for a state in the service of a trust society. Finally, the cross-checking of data and artificial intelligence must allow us two very important things: first, to reach the goal almost at each control by controlling only those for which the risk of fraud is statistically established; Secondly, to identify companies at the level of the USSRAF or DGFIP which are at risk of difficulties and to offer them support. Indeed, if not reporting VAT is the most common fraud in companies, it is not necessarily the case of inveterate fraudsters: it is often the case for them to "remake themselves" into cash. There is no doubt that this is a fraud, but it could be prevented by detecting the difficulties of the company and by setting up upstream support. It is therefore the overall strategy of fiscal control that needs to be changed. The excellent government bill, supplemented by your assembly and, I believe, voted almost unanimously by your group, Mr. MP, which provides more means not only for justice, but also for DGFIP, with the creation of a new tax police, as well as Mrs Cariou's very important work, show that we obviously still intend to control the biggest fraudsters and that is exactly what we are doing. I have had the opportunity to say here and elsewhere that, following Panama Papers and Paradise Papers, we have carried out checks, some of which have already proved extremely successful in the public accounts, and that we are continuing, since 90 per cent of these controls are under way. The 120 million euros we have already recovered are probably just a drop in the ocean of what will ultimately be returned to the public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u134	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u135	Despite the arguments of the rapporteur and the minister, I remain dubious, particularly with regard to social fraud. The in-depth dialogue with the courts in charge of these cases has shown us that the creation of some specific posts and the allocation of the corresponding means increased the profit for society in cumulative accounting by three. However, public accounting rarely takes into account the return on investment in human resources and in information technology innovations. This is a suggestion for the continuation of our discussions. Beyond fraud, the biggest scandal is that our country is being deprived of a tax base in search of tax havens beyond our borders. The increase in resources proposed by my colleague could also be devoted to the verification of compliance with the reporting obligation imposed on banks by law and not yet for holding companies, which I deeply regret. I finally wanted to point out a bit of a mess. During the discussion of the draft anti-fraud law, the Socialist Group had tabled an amendment to make it mandatory to keep staff representative bodies transparently informed of the reality of all the activities of the company, whether in terms of its economic activities, banking, tax investments in third countries, etc. Such a declaration obligation would circumvent the constitutional obstacle, which currently prohibits full transparency in the matter. We were then referred to the consideration of the PACTE bill, but in the debate on this bill we were referred to the anti-fraud bill and, ultimately, this amendment was not voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u136	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2508.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u137	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u138	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2506.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u139	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u141	I am very much in favour of this amendment, which reflects a commitment made during the spring of the evaluation: the establishment of a single financial account, CFU. Today, it is difficult to distinguish between administrative and management accounts. According to a joint report of the 2017 General Inspections of Finance and Social Affairs, 55,000 discrepancies were found between the number of administrative accounts and the number of management accounts. The need for simplification of the CFU and the magnitude of the resulting savings are assessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u142	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 2507.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u143	The aim of this amendment is to allow voluntary bodies to experiment with the creation of an accounting agency bringing together the authorising officer and the accounting officer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u145	The separation between authorising officer and accountant is a great totem of public accounting and I think it must remain so without becoming a taboo. That is why, on a personal basis, I am in favour of maintaining it. However, I am also in favour of this experiment aimed at increasing the authorising officer's responsibilities and strengthening the criminal and financial responsibility of public accountants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u146	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u147	The experiment of the scheme provided for in Amendment No 2507 will therefore be carried out on the basis of voluntary work. Are you still considering a minimum level given the number of communities – making a state of affairs and a diagnosis implies that this experiment is significant to organize the follow-up? Have you defined the nature of the territorial authorities selected? Can you tell us a little more?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u148	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u149	One word, Mr. President, to reply to Mrs. Louwagie. There will be no minimum level. The advantage of experimentation is that our services will be able to choose on the basis of opportunities, taking into account, in particular, the ability of candidate communities to set up the accounting agency and the single financial account. Not considering a minimum level will allow us, precisely, to integrate communities of very different sizes, of different nature, only on the basis of their means, into the experimental panel. I would point out that already several local authorities – communes, intercommunalities – have expressed their willingness to participate in this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u151	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1834.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u152	This amendment requires the Government to submit a report to Parliament on the residency allowance for civil servants in order to assess its cost to public finances and, above all, the consistency of geographical zoning with respect to the cost of living in the territories – and the desirability of linking the allowance to the agent's place of residence rather than to his administrative residence. I would point out that the rules governing the allocation of the residence allowance are laid down by a decree dating back more than 30 years – 1985, very precisely – and that the classification of the municipalities has not changed since 2001. As a result, this geographical zoning no longer makes it possible to compensate for differences in the cost of living, particularly in the Île-de-France region and in the most tense areas. We believe it is necessary to have a precise statement of the shortcomings of this compensation, which needs to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u153	Mrs Cendra Motin, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u154	Mr Saulignac, I myself tabled this amendment last year because, like you, I was wondering about the relevance of this compensation as it exists today. In committee, I told Ms. Pires Beaune that, as part of the major salary appointment, the minister had begun to study all of these allowances – indeed, this is not the only one – and to put a number of things down on the pay of public servants. I have proposed a request for withdrawal so that the minister can explain to us how he is conducting this reflection, which we wish to allow time to succeed. Request for withdrawal, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u156	Request for withdrawal also, for the reasons mentioned by the Special Rapporteur, but also because the report you are proposing aims to highlight the shortcomings of the scheme. We know them, and you have recalled them in the summary statement: the inadequacy of geographical zoning with the cost of living, its absence of any revision for years and, sometimes, a discrepancy between the place of residence and the place of administrative residence. The total amount of the single residency allowance is more than $1 billion for the public service as a whole. We need to review this in the context of project 2 which I mentioned earlier and which concerns remuneration policy. We will take a broader measure of the problem, beyond the mere fact of the shortcomings, in order to change the system. I would ask you to withdraw this amendment and join us in the work we will be doing, unless you would prefer us to send you all the elements we have on this issue, independently, therefore, of this supplementary request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u157	I call the appropriations of the "Public Action and Transformation" mission, listed in state B. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1445, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u158	With this amendment, we want to stop the government's technological mismeasurement, which wants to replace all state officials with algorithms, cloud, big data. We want to do this by redeploying the 160 million from the Public Action Transformation Fund, the FTAP, to a new fund whose title would be the Fund for social, environmental transformation, well-being at work and democratisation of the administration. If, contrary to what one might believe, we are absolutely not opposed to change...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u159	It's not always clear...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u160	... including the practices and tasks of the administration, the projects that have been retained seem to us to be archaic or, in any case, false modernity, since it is a question of developing computerisation and using big data. We have other ideas for change: for example, changing the relationship between administration and administration, improving the quality of public service – which is very related to human presence, and not simply to the development of machines. That is the meaning of this amendment. I thank the Special Rapporteur for his statements on the dogma of the increase or decrease in the number of officials. It is true that all the benches of this assembly can have their dogmatics. In this case, when we requested that the appropriations be maintained to ensure the number of agents in the Directorate-General for Public Finance, it was in accordance with the wishes of the agents themselves. Those who work know their needs. We were not simply motivated by dogmatic considerations, as you said. I thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u162	Madam Member, if I understand correctly, you are proposing by this amendment to transfer 360 million payment appropriations from the Public Action Transformation Fund to create your fund. In doing so, you cancel the possibility of financing all the successful projects in the calls for projects and the possibility of improving the targeting against tax fraud – you propose this! You also propose to cancel a project to advance telemedicine or to improve the indicators of the integration of apprentices and high school students or artificial intelligence within Pôle emploi – but you said that, which has the merit of being a little coherent. As for me, I think these successful projects of the two calls for projects of the FTAP are brilliant, that they also come from public officials, as you would say. This is how we innovate in the administration today: by public officials, for public officials and for better service to the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u164	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u165	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 313.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u166	I come to the amendment which I referred briefly to in the rostrum and which aims to create a fund to support or accelerate the financing of state start-ups, which I propose to appoint the Fast Fund. First of all, I would like to commend the effectiveness of the Public Action Transformation Fund. There is no question of replacing it but of bringing a somewhat different logic. The Public Action Transformation Fund finances projects that could be described as "intrapreneurial", i.e. implemented by public officials to improve the efficiency of the public service while achieving savings over three years. I want him to be kept. However, state-owned start-ups or public or private bodies aim at public transformation and should be better accompanied by public authorities, in particular private-capital start-ups; the state could invest in it at the top of the balance sheet, i.e. equity. I therefore make the difference between the Public Action Transformation Fund, which subsidises projects – and it must continue to do so – and the Fund that I propose, aimed at creating a public private equity fund investing at the top of the balance sheet in state start-ups that, themselves, would no longer be part of intrapreneurial projects but would become real private capital structures. This is the subject of my amendment adopted in committee, with a proposal of 50 million in commitment authorisations and 10 million in payment appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u168	Mr. Member of Parliament and rapporteur Saint-Martin, the Government shares the philosophy that inspires you to profoundly transform public action and operate into "projects" mode, and not simply on the usual method of financing operations by administrations. I have had the opportunity several times to welcome your work as a parliamentarian in this House, but also as a inspiration for part of the Public Action Transformation Fund with the 700 million funding provided by the State. Finally, I know that state start-ups are dear to the spirit and politics of the President of the Republic. You will not be surprised, Mr Special Rapporteur, but the vector you are proposing is not the right one. In this second part of the PLF, the Government will propose slightly different amounts with commitment authorizations and payment appropriations around 2 million in order to address the problems. As far as financial participation in companies is concerned, it seems to me that, legally, we must go through a structure different from the one you propose in your amendment. It will be a management company whose establishment by the Government will take a little time, but I promise you that it will be created. While I understand the philosophy of this amendment, I ask you to withdraw it – which will also avoid the pledge you have proposed on programme 148. The Government undertook to table an amendment guaranteeing the 2 million commitment and payment authorizations and to establish the management company allowing the State to intervene directly in private companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u169	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u170	I thank the minister for his response and understanding. My amendment was in fact on programme 148, but I am the first to say that we need its 900 million commitment authorizations for the renovation of the administrative cities. However, you know that Article 40 imposed a pledge on me within the same mission, but so much the better if you have a different source to use these credits! I thank you for having rightly pointed out that it is necessary to go through a management company to make private equity, if only public, as, for example, BpiFrance does brilliantly – it would be an interesting vector to explore. I therefore agree to withdraw this amendment and to support the one you will be presenting, the amounts of which will be higher. This leaves us a year to find the right vehicle, the management company that is right to invest in these state start-ups at the top of the balance sheet. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u171	It's the commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u172	Mrs Pires Beaune is quite right: this is the amendment from the committee that I propose to withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u173	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1446.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u174	As we find the projects of the Public Action Transformation Fund obsolete, we propose to transfer the appropriations of the new interdepartmental human resources support fund – I translate by saying that it is ultimately responsible for liquidating 120,000 civil servants under Cape 2022 – to accompany the end of the precarisation in the public service. As a reminder, the latter includes one in five contract officers – I do not decline the status of each public service, but it is one in five. You want to accentuate and precipitate this precarization: of which act. For our part, we want to use this fund to help these agents of the State who are subjecting you to an increasingly flexible and precarious process of reconversion or dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u176	You propose to abolish the Interministerial Human Resources Support Fund, whose purpose is to support the mobility of public officials. I will therefore give you a bit of the same answer as before: I do not think you are hostile to the idea of promoting the mobility of public officials. Let me remind you of a few figures: today, 4.3% of public officials change employers, of which 3.7% within the state, and only 0.6% towards another side of the public service. I believe that these figures can be improved, and the Interdepartmental Human Resources Support Fund, which has a budget of 50 million, has justly been opened for this purpose. Of course, I don't want to touch that fund. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u178	I am afraid that Mrs Rubin has said the opposite of what she has written. You tell us that you want to remove this fund to allocate the money to the reclassification and conversion of agents whose position would be abolished. This is exactly one of the tasks entrusted to this ministerial support fund. It is a question of allowing staff, either on mobility or as part of a reclassification – as we guarantee the right to the replacement provided for by the Staff Regulations – to have access to training or to a balance sheet of skills. We have put this fund under an interdepartmental authority, to ensure that all the agents concerned will be treated in the same way, regardless of the department to which they belong. As far as contract agents are concerned, as I have already had the opportunity to mention in my reply to Mr Paluszkiewicz earlier, we are currently working on improving their conditions of employment and getting out of the precarious situation. We are seeking to put an end to a number of existing systems, particularly around hourly agents. Contract officers need to be better treated in the public service. I do not understand your amendment, since what you have said does not correspond to what you have written.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u179	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2531.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u180	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u181	The Special Rapporteur has already given a favourable opinion on this amendment. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u182	This amendment brings us back, Minister, to our debate on Monday night. To create this fund for the acceleration of the financing of state start-ups, you take 5 million euros on the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement". However, as I said on Monday evening when we examined the draft law on amending finance, the reality is that you will resume on this mission credits that went to the investment programmes of the future – PIA – 1 and 2, via BpiFrance or the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, and which were specifically used to initiate start-ups.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u183	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u184	You are telling me that this is not the case, but it is still what I fear, because the credits of IAP 1 and 2 are not legible. Although there was no mention of state start-ups, these investment programmes were intended to serve as seed funds for start-ups. The funds of IAPs 1 and 2 being less arrowed and legible than those of IAPs 3, what I fear is that they will be reassigned to inter-ministerial actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u185	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u186	It is two very distinct things, Mrs. Dalloz. The PIA 1 and 2 finance, via BpiFrance, the seed funds, through the fund schemes, and they concern private start-ups. This is absolutely not called into question by the mechanism that is proposed to you. The Government's amendment, for which I withdrew the Commission's amendment and which mobilises 5 million commitment authorizations, has a different purpose, since it concerns start-ups for public transformation purposes. This must be distinguished from the credits for start-up funds, which still exist and are not called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u187	These are actually two different things!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u188	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Unallocated appropriations", entered in statement B. I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1837.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u189	At the salary appointment of 18 June 2018, the Government announced a €10 increase in the amount of the monetized days for the time savings account – CET – together with a reduction in the trigger threshold from 20 to 15 days. This is a good measure, since it is a measure of purchasing power. It was my understanding, however, that this was a topical issue and that the Government was anxious to hear the French, who called for greater consideration. While we can therefore welcome this measure, we regret that the hospital public service is not affected by it. This, in our view, introduces unequal treatment, which is incomprehensible and groundless. I imagine that you will refer this amendment to the Social Security Financing Bill, arguing that it has no place in this budget discussion. However, I want us to have this debate, because I want you to explain to national representation the reasons for introducing some form of discrimination in the public service. Why should nurses and caregivers miss out on this purchasing power measure? I look forward to your answer, for I do not see at all what justifies this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u191	You are right, Mr.Saulignac: we cannot decide, in the context of the review of the finance bill, to apply to the hospital public service the reform of the TEC decided on the occasion of the salary appointment, because it is indeed a matter for the PLFSS. For my part, I had committed myself, with Mrs Pires Beaune, to obtaining more information on this subject. At this point, I was told that this provision was not a priority in the negotiations that are taking place today in the hospital public service. That's what I can tell you right now. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u192	What is the Government's view?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u193	Same opinion. First of all, I am pleased that we find ourselves on this measure, which concerns both the public service of the State and the territorial civil service. It provides for both the revalorisation of the daily redemption amount and the lowering of the threshold of days allowing it to be triggered. It is a way, for agents who have a number of days stored on their TECs, to liquidate them, in the proper sense of the term, by withdrawing income. You wonder why this provision does not apply in the hospital public service. The Special Rapporteur explained this in part. Some measures have already been adopted within the hospital public service, including a decision to focus on the gerontology bonus and to ensure full implementation of the "Professional Paths, Careers and Remuneration" agreement. In particular, a number of trades in the social and medico-social sector are being moved from category B to category A, which is also a burden for employers. In addition, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, continues to carry out consultations specific to the FPH: the issue that you raise is on the agenda, but it has not been retained at the stage of the wage rendezvous. We will continue to work on this issue, including to allow, if possible, access by hospital public officials to this measure. The second reason I ask for your amendment to be withdrawn is the fact that article 39 and state B are managed by an order which can only increase appropriations from the title of State personnel expenditure, according to article 11 of the Organic Law. What you are proposing to us is to take credits that must be spent on the remuneration of government officials to finance the increase in the buy-in of TECs for hospital officials. Your amendment is therefore not legally acceptable. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u194	Is your amendment retained, Mr Saulignac?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u195	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u196	I call the appropriations of the mission "Social and Pension Plans", listed in state B.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u197	I call the appropriations of the trust account "Management of the State's real estate assets", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u198	I have before me an amendment No 143, as corrected, which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 2526 and 2528. Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u199	Amendment No 143, adopted in the Committee on Finance, aims to improve the use of the Duflot haircut and to reduce its dysfunction, in line with my thematic work as Special Rapporteur for more than a year. This amendment is also the result of the adoption by our House of a resolution which I tabled last June in the spring of the budget evaluation. It was intended to ensure a more proportionate use of the discount, a revision of the calculation criteria, as well as of the capping rules and a subsequent financial control of the divestiture operations. Introduced into our law in 2013 with numerical targets, the discount did not achieve its goal. On the balance sheet, out of the 94 properties sold since 2013, amounting to 323 million euros, only 125 are due to the State, for only 8700 units programmed, far from the 110,000 units that were to be built between 2012 and 2016 and the 224 sites that were to be disposed of! However, the discount may affect the taxpayer, particularly in Paris, where its cost is 100,000 euros per social housing, while elsewhere in France it is 16,000 euros. It is also a complex and perverse mechanism of speculation on the part of communities that prefer to use it rather than use their heritage, which they value differently. The Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development – ELAN – has expanded the scope of operations eligible for discount by reducing the requirement for the construction of social housing – mostly, rather than mainly, housing projects and easing the delivery times of development operations of less than 5 hectares – which could lead to additional losses. This amendment proposes the inclusion of two new criteria: the existence of land reserves capable of enabling social housing to be built at a cost equivalent to that resulting from the discount; and the average cost of building social housing in the municipality or agglomeration. These recommendations are intended to address the fragility of revenue financing the State's real estate policy and to safeguard the financial balance of the budget we are looking at tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u200	Mr Mattei, I now call on you to defend sub-amendments Nos 2526 and 2528.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u201	Sub-amendment No 2526, which has not been discussed in committee, seeks to clarify the scope of Amendment No 143 in order to take account not only of existing land rights, but also of property, which may be taken into account in assessing the value of the discount in relation to the own capacity for housing creation of the applicant territorial community. Sub-amendment No 2528, which was also not discussed in committee, is intended to simplify the proposed wording, even if the legislator does not give up its intention to subject the application of the discount to the lack of capacity of the requesting territorial authorities to produce housing under more economical conditions on their own land rights or on their pre-existing immovable property. The new criterion for the existence of land reserves or real property will now be sufficient to assess the appropriateness of issuing the discount to a claimant community. The deletion of the reference, which indicates the intention of the legislator, is superfate in the legislative system, since a decree in the Council of State will specify the procedures for its application. This sub-amendment is intended to be a pedagogic gesture towards the administrative departments which will be responsible for implementing these provisions with greater visibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u203	I welcome the work of the rapporteur Jean-Paul Mattei, with whom we have been working in good intelligence for seventeen months to transform the state's real estate. His amendment reflects the reflection he has been making since last year, which is reflected in his report. The State's real estate policy is, of course, under the authority of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, but it is the result of inter-ministerial work, because it has several objectives, sometimes contradictory, which complicates the task of my ministry, which is responsible for its proper management. Your amendment, which has been amended twice without changing the mind, is interesting and has a commendable objective, but I will not be able to give a favourable opinion, for various reasons. First of all, the practical arrangements for implementing the measure you propose are problematic. The existence of land reserves in the communities should be ensured and the capacity of each community to receive social housing programs and the cost price assessed: if I understood correctly, the ceiling would be the average cost of building social housing in the municipality or agglomeration. The adoption of this amendment would bring about a profound change, which is not without reference to previous cases, which you recalled in your report, in particular, the conclusions that the previous Government drew about the city of Paris. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment, to which I am against, so that a report can be given on this subject and allow us to decide, knowingly, whether it is appropriate to change the criteria for calculating this discount, known as Duflot, set out in the general code of ownership of public persons. My opinion will be the same for the two sub-amendments which do not change the nature of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u204	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u205	I would not like to give the impression of insisting heavily, but this amendment, which was adopted in the Committee on Finance, is important in that it would enable us to draw the consequences of the anomalies in the application of the Duflot haircut. I maintain this amendment and ask the House to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u206	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u207	We have dealt with this subject on various occasions in committee. You have the merit, Mr Special Rapporteur, of clarifying this amendment by two sub-amendments. When you want to produce more, you have to offer land. These discounts are necessary to rebalance the social housing financing model, which was upset by the reforms imposed last year. Without them, it will no longer be possible to carry out operations. We will vote on the amendment and the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u208	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2509 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u209	The Navy Command Hotel, located at Pomare Boulevard in Papeete, is located on the cadastral parcel section AE No. 19. For a long time, several presidents of the Republic have promised French Polynesia that it could carry out, at its own expense, a centre of memory of nuclear experiments in French Polynesia. I visited French Polynesia last July, for various reasons, in particular the action of the customs services. The president of the government of Polynesia has drawn my attention to this place, which belongs to the French state and which was promised to them several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u210	Holding this debate at this late hour of the night has one advantage: Polynesians can follow it live!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u211	No doubt, indeed! On Monday, the president of Polynesia, Édouard Fritch, will be in the metropolis and he will be able to visit us, if he wishes. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the work of Members of Parliament and Polynesian senators, all political tendencies, who have made progress on this issue. I call on the national representative to keep this promise of successive governments by allowing the transfer of this hotel free of charge so that Polynesia can carry out this centre of memory of nuclear experiments and group the related studies there. Of course, this amendment specifies the conditions for this transfer in order to safeguard the interests of the State. It seems to me that the Government must keep this promise made to the Polynesians who have suffered the inconvenience – the word is weak, but I cannot use others in this House – nuclear tests. This amendment deserves to be looked at a few moments before voting, if possible unanimously. It would be just a repair.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u213	This project of a centre for the memory of nuclear tests, already studied under the previous legislature, had been the subject of various exchanges. It is a commitment of the State and I welcome your commitment to it. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u214	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u215	Thank you, Minister, for delivering on the government's commitment. You will no doubt get this unanimous vote, which will bear witness to the Assembly's ability to carry this message. I am a Member of Parliament for the port of Le Havre, where we still suffer from the consequences of the asbestos scandal. I know that the Polynesians are still suffering in their flesh as a result of nuclear tests, or even in their offspring. The State is also expected on this subject. This is, in a way, what the inhabitants of Hiroshima have experienced in their time. Even today, children born in Hiroshima bear the legacy of their parents' experiences. I hope that the State will not be content with a material contribution to this memory, but will be able to meet the expectations, hopes, of the people who have suffered from these nuclear tests and who are asking, not for reparation that would be impossible, but for recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u216	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u217	The IUD Group, acting and independent, on behalf of my Polynesian colleagues, welcomes this decision, which enables our Polynesian friends, fortunately, to close a chapter of suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u218	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u219	Thirty years of nuclear testing, a project over ten years old, an old promise: I believe that your amendment, Mr.Minister, will be adopted unanimously and will give you thanks on all the benches, on behalf of the Polynesians who have been waiting for this decision for a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u220	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u221	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I associate myself with the comments of our colleagues who have spoken. Our group will support this amendment and we thank the Government for having responded to this long-standing request.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u222	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u223	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, in turn, would support the amendment and would like to thank the Government for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u224	The Special Rapporteur, Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, has the floor to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u225	This amendment proposes that the Government submit to Parliament a report on alternative tools that could be considered to enhance the value of the State's real estate assets, avoiding the systematic use of divestiture – emhyteotic leases, consultation with the State's real estate council, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u227	I invite you to withdraw this amendment, because the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, who is also the Minister of Public Accounts, is working to reorganise the governance of the State's real estate policy and to review the functioning of the National Council of the State's real estate strategy. These new forums will allow us to work more precisely. The report you are asking for would concern governance that will not exist in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u228	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u229	To avoid being too stubborn tonight, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u230	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Pension", entered in Statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u231	I call the Mission's appropriations "Reimbursements and Discounts" in statement B.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u232	We have completed the review of appropriations for the missions "Public Finance and Human Resources Management", "Public Action and Transformation", "Unallocated Appropriations", "Social and Pension Plans", "Repayments and Discounts", as well as appropriations for the trust accounts "Government Property Management" and "Pension". The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-14-O1063.u233	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill: Review of Non-attached Items. The meeting is adjourned.
