ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u2	Mr Martial Saddier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 350, concerning the track of the Arve Valley.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u3	Madam Minister responsible for transport, I would like to draw your attention to the urgent need to renovate the track of the Arve Valley in Haute-Savoie. It is a subject on which I have been invested for more than ten years, particularly on the famous Léman Express, which will serve Geneva. You know it well, since we had the opportunity to discuss it in Saint-Pierre-en-Faucigny, when you came with the Minister of State, Minister of the ecological and solidarity transition, Nicolas Hulot. Located in the heart of Haute-Savoie, the Arve Valley is a very attractive area, from a demographic but also economic point of view – décolletage, ski resorts, summer resorts, and the presence of many borderers. In addition, this territory is also located at the railway interconnection of the department, between Chablais, Geneva, Annecy and Mont-Blanc. However, everyone agrees that there is currently a significant delay in railway equipment, both on the La Roche-sur-Foron - Le Fayet line and on the Le Fayet-Vallorcine line. However, the modernization of the railway service in the Arve Valley does not seem to be a major priority. Thus, it is not included in the report entitled "Mobility of the Daily: Responding to Emergencies and Preparing for the Future" presented on February 1 by Philippe Duron. This situation is all the more regrettable since this territory is the subject of an atmospheric protection plan – PPP – and is one of the 16 French geographical areas that do not comply with European air quality regulations. The European Commission has also initiated a dispute on this subject. SNCF, the region, the department and the municipalities have made a strong commitment to the Leman Express. We have an appointment this fall, with the State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – and the opening of the public investigation into the second atmospheric protection plan. Minister, can you reassure us and confirm that, by this fall, the state will make the renovation of this valley's railway a national priority?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u4	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u5	Mr President, you stress the emblematic character of the Arve Valley in terms of air quality issues, and I share this concern. As you recalled, I visited the area last September with Nicolas Hulot and Agnès Buzyn, and we noted the urgency of the situation and the very strong mobilization of the inhabitants. The Government is also fully aware of the importance of railway lines for the daily life of the territories crossed, especially for mountain areas, which are often less well equipped with mobility offers. In this context, the introduction in 2019 of the Léman Express, a true international RER, will be accompanied by a considerable change in the transport offer to Evian, Saint-Gervais and Annecy. Furthermore, the studies carried out by SNCF Réseau have shown the relevance of investments in the modernisation of railway installations throughout the Arve Valley. Thus, the CPER 2015-2020 provides 4 million euros for the realization of studies, which are under way, on the railway axis Bellegarde-Saint-Gervais. The results will be available in the coming weeks and will help to define the investments to be made under the €58 million envelope in the CPER. Finally, the Saint-Gervais-Vallorcine-Martigny section will undergo a new phase of modernisation between 2019 and 2021. Local authorities, first and foremost the region, as well as the State and SNCF Network, must work together to reinvigorate the use of rail transport in the valley. The transfer of ownership of the infrastructure to the region, at its request, is already possible since it is a metric track separate from the national rail network. I know that the region wishes to move in this direction, and I would like to assure you of the Government's support in this endeavour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u6	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your very precise answer. The Léman Express will be commissioned, but we are awaiting the findings of the study on the La Roche-sur-Foron-Chamonix section. Indeed, there are negotiations with the region. You know that I sit on the regional council, alongside Éric Fournier, the mayor of Chamonix, and President Wauquiez. Your announcement is extremely important: beyond the study, part of the €58 million envelope will be devoted to work. We can't wait for the next CPER. The studies must be carried out this summer, and the modernization of the La Roche-sur-Foron - Le Fayet-Chamonix railway must be undertaken very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u8	Mr Michel Herbillon, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No 353, on the noise protection of motorways A4 and A86.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u9	Madam Minister of Transport, I would like to ask you about the programme to strengthen the sound protections in my constituency, which is crossed by the A4 and A86 motorways. In the Maisons-Alfort and Saint-Maurice sector, the state had publicly committed itself, including here, to the National Assembly, to build a wall of sound protections along the South A4 in the fourth quarter of 2017 and to install more efficient screens on the A4/A86 exchangers from the second part of 2018. However, to date, while construction works have been put in place several months ago for the A4 South project, construction work on these walls has not yet begun, even though it appears that workers have appeared on the site very recently. As for the plan to strengthen protections on motorway interchanges, it now seems to be at a standstill. You will understand that for the inhabitants of my constituency, who suffer from this noise pollution on a daily basis, these delays and lack of information are difficult to accept. I would therefore like to know the precise and detailed timetable for the implementation of these two projects, which are absolutely necessary for the protection of residents, and on which the State has repeatedly committed itself. I would also like to have information on the progress of the project to cover or semi-cover the A4 motorway, which has been studied for a long time by the State services, in the Charenton bridge sector, where the residents of Charenton and Saint-Maurice are subjected to the noise of the 260,000 vehicles that run on this motorway every day. Despite the recent installation of a loud surface, which has certainly improved the situation, this section of the highway remains a black spot of noise in Île-de-France. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the State, which has carried out numerous studies on this project, now inform us of what it intends to achieve and within what time frame.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u10	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u11	Mr President, the A4 and A86 motorways are structural axes of the Parisian agglomeration. To deal with nuisances, the State is implementing noise mitigation measures. The project to put in place acoustic protections in Saint-Maurice, Maisons-Alfort and Créteil envisages the construction of new screens or the replacement of existing screens. The operation was cut into two slices. The first was carried out in 2013. With regard to the second phase of work, launched in March 2013, the screens of the sectors concerned in Créteil and Maisons-Alfort have been completed. Work on the South-A4 screen in Saint-Maurice was started at the end of 2017. The preparatory work on the South-A4 screen has recently begun, and the first acoustic panels will be installed this summer. The South-A4 screen is scheduled to be completed in December 2018. With regard to the replacement of screens on the A4/A86 interchange viaducts, studies are under way to validate methods of anchoring on viaducts. In the sense of Paris-Créteil, the studies will be completed next September. Regarding the Créteil-Nogent meaning, the objective is to engage the first tranche of the construction contract in 2019. This calendar is linked to the work of the Nogent Bridge. With regard to the sound protections in Charenton's law, several development variants have been studied, and further studies are under way. Without waiting for their finalization, the Ile-de-France road management put in place, in the summer of 2017, an innovative coating on the terminal part of the A4 motorway, from Saint-Maurice to Paris, in order to reduce noise pollution. This coating solution has been deployed as part of a partnership between the State and the Île-de-France region and should also help to mitigate noise pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u12	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have recalled what has been done, and I do not dispute it. I worked hard as a member of Parliament and as mayor of Maison-Alfort. You announced good news about the construction of the protective wall on A4 South, indicating that work was finally going to begin. It's about time! The issue of exchangers is crucial. The highways are moving upside down. Of course, these are structuring axes, but here we have a black dot of noise. Thank you for your comments and count on your commitment to ensure that the projects concerning the exchangers, which we have been talking about for a very long time, finally emerge. Finally, concerning the houses of Charenton and Saint-Maurice located near the bridge of Charenton, I assure you that we have been talking about studies for many years. They'd have to be successful. Of course, the coating has improved the situation, but you know very well that this is not enough. 260,000 vehicles pass every day. The inhabitants of Charenton and Saint-Maurice suffer extremely severe nuisances. I would like to see these studies on the semi-coverage or the cover in the vicinity of the Charenton bridge finally completed and work started. That is what we are waiting for, and I thank you for taking care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u14	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, to put his question, No. 355 on the national road 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u15	Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the proposed redevelopment of the National Road 21, which connects Limoges to the Pyrenees via Agen, Auch and Tarbes. In rural areas, mobility, more than anywhere else, is an inescapable issue. When population and service density are low and distances are high, the issue of travel is a daily problem. In the countryside, the first means of transport is the road. Road routes are therefore structural infrastructures for the territory: they meet the growing demand for mobility of people and goods; they boost the territories by facilitating the establishment of enterprises and talents; Finally, they are responsible for the task of opening up rural areas. Today, therefore, the road is at the heart of such diverse issues as the social and professional integration of the population, access to public services or business opportunities. Many road projects are currently under consideration. As an elected candidate for a rural area with lower rail, road and air accessibility than the rest of the country, I believe that priority should be given to projects that "open" the territories. One of these projects draws my particular attention – and I hope yours – to the Euro 21 project, the setting up of two RN21 routes between Limoges and Tarbes. It operates on a north-south axis of 385 kilometres linking five departments, three regions and two countries. It defends the idea of a development respectful of the territories crossed and vector of strong dynamics for the South-West. The virtues of this infrastructure for the whole South-West would be numerous: reintegration of underserved areas into regional dynamics; rebalancing the development of the territories, in particular the outlying basins; improving access to health and education services. Moreover, at a time when the European project is being questioned, the Euro 21 project could be integrated into a dynamic of enhanced European cooperation. Thanks to its link with the Pyrénées Central Crossing Project – TCP – it will meet the objectives of international partnership between France and the Iberian peninsula. I would like to know your position on this project, which the State had included in its national transport infrastructure scheme in 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u16	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u17	Mr President, you know that I am committed to the issues of de-enclavement and road development, particularly on the Limoges-Tarbes axis. The RN21 is a regional axis structuring and supporting important traffic, especially in the agglomeration entrances and on the section Agen-Villeneuve. However, socio-economic studies of continuous development of the RN21 at twice two lanes over 400 kilometres show that there would be no significant delayed traffic effect of 1'A10, A20 and RN10. The Euro 21 association, of which I welcome the mobilisation, had also considered a concession solution. This solution, for which the acceptability of the general public would be necessary, has been studied by my services. Tolls to finance the infrastructure would be far too high compared to the user's consent to pay, except for a substantial balance subsidy that would cancel the interest of a concession. However, there is no question of leaving this axis to abandonment. Also, the development of the RN21 is obviously intended to be financed or even accelerated. It is therefore necessary to give priority to improvements in safety, reliability of journey times and improvement of the living conditions of local residents. The modifications in the current CPER, amounting to EUR 51.5 million in the New Aquitaine region and EUR 2.5 million in the Occitanie region, are part of this development strategy. These projects will have to be continued and developed during the next contracts between the State and the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u18	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u19	Thank you for your answer. I know that 400 kilometres represent a long distance, but I count on your support for at least the dangerous parts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u20	Mrs Valérie Oppelt has the floor to put her question, No 341, on the safety of gas cylinders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u21	Minister, the regular explosions of gas bottles on the national territory are a cause for serious concern, both among firefighters, usually the first to be exposed to the danger of their lives, and among consumers. These concerns are all the more justified because the bottles concerned are bottles of liquefied petroleum gas – LPG – which can be found everywhere in France, both in the domestic and the artisanal environment. On Tuesday, January 16, a fire broke out in a recreational vehicle dealership near Nantes. The fire spread to about 30 motorhomes, causing the explosion of the gas cylinders contained in these vehicles. The Government has already drawn the consequences of recent accidents by taking measures regarding the storage conditions of this equipment. It is imperative to make arrangements for the storage of cylinders, but these provisions will not be sufficient, as they do not address the root of the danger, namely the gas cylinder itself. In addition, the installation of a fusible valve would prevent the risk of an explosion of a cylinder. The European standards for the design of bottles, applicable in France since 2009, condition the obligation to install a valve to the volumetric expansion capacity of the bottle – and therefore to the choice of materials used. This is why, in France, the latest-generation bottles of composite materials and certain bottles of thin sheet metal are equipped with valves, whereas steel bottles, whose expansion capacity is considered adequate in the light of European standards, are not equipped with valves – even if, in any case, European standards do not prohibit them. Thus, although nothing precludes the entry into France of a bottle of European origin without a valve, since it complies with the above-mentioned provisions, European legislation does not prohibit the integration of this device on certain bottles, in particular steel, which also constitute the majority of the French fleet. What measures does the Government intend to take to remedy that situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u22	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u23	Madam Member, your question is to Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition: he cannot be present, he asked me to answer you. You draw his attention to the security of the French park of gas bottles, and in particular to the danger of exposure to the flames of these bottles. The departments of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition received in this regard the Chief of Staff of the fire and rescue service of Loire-Atlantique: after carrying out a number of tests on several models of bottles available on the French market, he provided them with data on the behaviour of domestic cylinders of liquefied petroleum gas – LPG – in a fire situation. Following this meeting, the Minister decided to entrust INERIS, the National Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks, with a study on the behaviour of steel LPG cylinders subjected to fire. This study, which will build on the tests already carried out, will develop a theoretical model for predicting the behaviour of a steel LPG cylinder caught in a fire and determine the advantages and disadvantages of the safety devices envisaged. As part of this study, a risk analysis covering the entire life cycle of the cylinder should be carried out, not just taking into account the risk of exposure to fire – for example, external storage and transport at higher or lower temperatures. The results of this study will support a proposal, for which we seek the support of a majority of the Member States of the European Union, in order to amend the international regulations applicable to the design of these cylinders. At present, this regulation does not systematically impose a safety device on steel LPG cylinders placed on the European market – and therefore on the French market.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u24	Mrs Valérie Oppelt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u25	Thank you, Minister. I'm in close contact with Colonel Delaunay. He is very interested in this question because he has lost several colleagues in accidents involving gas cylinders. I support it: it seems to me important to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u26	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to put her question, No 333, on the EuropaCity project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u27	My question is to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. On 6 July 2017, while Nicolas Hulot presented his national plan to combat climate change, a question was asked: "Is the urbanisation of the 300 hectares of the Gonesse triangle, including the EuropaCity shopping and leisure centre project, compatible with the objective of carbon neutrality? Mr. Hulot said very clearly: "The answer is no. This greed that we have to consume agricultural land and to artificialize soils in general is incompatible with our objectives. » Once is not customary, I agree with him! This gigantic shopping centre is an archaic project that does not correspond in any way to the stakes of our time. This is attested by the decision of the Cergy Administrative Court on 6 March, which annulled the prefectural order concerning EuropaCity because of the insufficient impact assessment, particularly in environmental terms. However, your government has decided to appeal this decision so that this project will continue at all costs, despite the opposition of many citizens. While 9.4% of French territory is already artificialized, this decision is unacceptable, especially since this phenomenon is accelerating: it is the equivalent of a department that is concreteized every seven years, mainly to the detriment of agricultural land. This decision is all the more incomprehensible as France emitted 3.6% more greenhouse gases than was planned in 2016, and was referred by the European Commission to the Court of Justice of the European Union on 17 May. Finally, this decision is a lie to the French, since the fifth objective set by the candidate Emmanuel Macron's programme for the environment was to accompany the transitions by putting an end to the artificialisation of the land. Another project was presented by the CARMA group – Cooperation for a rural and metropolitan agricultural ambition, which corresponds to another ideal of society: market gardening, education, training in organic farming, waste sorting, research... Minister, why did your government appeal this common sense decision from the administrative tribunal? Will you put an end to this huge, useless and costly commercial project to give Gonesse's fertile land the unique chance to remain a common good for local market gardening and permaculture?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u28	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u29	Madam Member, as you recalled, a 2016 prefectural order was the first procedural step in the concerted planning area of the Gonesse triangle, between Roissy and Le Bourget. This decision was taken after a phase of pre-regulatory studies and consultations, and after the public debate on the EuropaCity project. On 6 March 2018, the Cergy-Pontoise Administrative Court took up some of the comments made by the environmental authority and annulled this order, considering the impact assessment insufficient. You question Mr. Nicolas Hulot on the Government's decision to appeal the annulment and ask him why. A distinction must be made between the decision to create a CAZ – a cooperative development area – and the decision to develop it. Once the CAZ has been created, projects can be studied, debated, and in particular to verify their compliance with environmental requirements. Between these two stages of the procedure, the studies continue and the project becomes clearer. The creation dossier remains forward-looking and its approval does not preclude the search for changes and improvements to the project. In addition, the environmental assessment contained in the environmental impact assessment defined by the Environmental Code must provide an appropriate description and assessment of the impacts of a project, depending on each particular case. In the present case, the Government considers that the impact assessment produced by the public operator is proportionate and adapted to the stage of the creation of the ZAC. That is why we appealed the decision of the Administrative Court. We wish, more generally, that the acts of creation of ZACs should not be weakened by requirements beyond the regulatory framework or by assessments of elements that cannot be known at this stage of a project. From a legal point of view, we insist on these points without giving a substantive opinion on the content of the ZAC, i.e. on the EuropaCity project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u30	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although it is absolutely not satisfactory! I repeat, Nicolas Hulot himself said at a press conference that we must stop artificializing agricultural land. You answer me: let's create the ZAC, and then we'll see if there are any minor adjustments. I insist: these lands can be used for market gardening, in order to contribute to the food supply of Paris – since we know that big cities have only three days of food autonomy. This is a national issue. I went the other day near Annemasse, where there is a project of ZAC called "Borly II": there too, there is a question of snacking agricultural land. I repeat: we know that the artificialization of land is accelerating, mainly at the expense of agricultural land. However, we need these lands for the agricultural transition that we call for. I therefore consider that the answer you have given me on behalf of Mr Hulot is not commensurate with what he said at the press conference to which I referred, nor with Emmanuel Macron's programme, nor with the challenges of climate change for the most part.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u32	Mr Pierre Dharréville, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 334, on the protection of the Mediterranean forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u33	Minister, the summer season is approaching and I would like to share with you my concern about the risk of forest fires. In 2017, 3,000 fires devastated 24,500 hectares of forests throughout France. Due to its climatic conditions and vegetation, the Mediterranean region is particularly exposed to this risk, and global warming does not help. 7 million hectares of forest are concerned in France, of which 4.2 million in the Mediterranean region. The Prometheus report identified 2320 fires in the Mediterranean area in 2017, including 733 in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region and 637 in Corsica. Haute-Corse, Corse-du-Sud and Bouches-du-Rhône hold the fire records, with 319, 318 and 257 fires respectively. In total, 9687 hectares of forest were destroyed in 2017 in these three departments, out of the 19693 hectares burned throughout the Mediterranean area. Prometheus has already recorded 196 fires and 2111 hectares burned in the same area for the year 2018. While the question arises as to whether civil security has sufficient means to deal with these high risks, the fight against forest fires is also based on the control of natural factors: this requires the mobilization of all public actors involved in the protection of our forests. That is the subject of my question. Since 2000, the NFB – the National Forestry Board – has lost one third of its workforce, and a new reorganization project is making the situation worse. This project involves changing the status of the public institution, further downsizing and reorienting its missions according to the criteria of profitability, to the detriment of the maintenance and sustainable management of forests. On the contrary, we need to strengthen the NFB and rethink forest policy for the benefit of our wood industry, which is rich in know-how and job-creating. I would like to point out to you that Météo-France is also in the throes of shrinkage. I would also like to draw your attention to pastoralism, an activity indispensable to our Mediterranean mountains, which is also threatened by the methods of calculating CAP aid, which do not take account of the specificities of our territories, where grazing routes take place in areas of resinous and thorny, which are little or no mechanized. In these areas, it is particularly useful to support herders and the preventive work of their herds. Finally, we know that we must not relax the effort on prevention: many fires, of involuntary origin, are the result of negligence. There is no fatality, we are not doomed to watch our forests burn with tears in our eyes. Minister, summer is coming soon and our fellow citizens are worried: how does the state intend to rise to the stakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u34	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u35	Mr Travert, your question is for Stéphane Travert. He asks me to convey his apologies: being held in Bulgaria for a meeting of the Council of the European Union "Agriculture and Fisheries", which takes place in Sofia, he cannot answer you himself. Your question concerns the protection of the Mediterranean forest, the specificities of which require appropriate answers. In this plant continuum, characterized by numerous forest-habitat interfaces, urbanization and increasing tourist flows, the risk of fire increases. For the management and protection of the Mediterranean forest, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food acts mainly on two lines: regional forest-wood plans and the defence of forests against fire. The national forest and wood programme launched in 2016 is expected to be implemented in each region by 2019. Based on the analysis of the forest resource, the structure of the forest property, the regional plans for Mediterranean forest-wood will focus on the different issues of management, biodiversity and socio-economic issues. The effort to prevent forest fires must also be maintained and the defence of forests against fire encouraged. To this end, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has strengthened the role of the Delegation for the Protection of the Mediterranean Forest – DPFM. This mission structure, under the authority of the Secretary-General of the Southern Defence and Security Zone, is responsible to the Prefect of the Zone for the protection of the Mediterranean Forest. The territorial competence of the DPFM extends over the fifteen departments of the Mediterranean arc and implements the State's strategy for the protection of the Mediterranean forest. It ensures its link with firefighting and the partnership with local and regional authorities. Beyond governance aspects, DPFM, through its zonal vision, makes it possible to prioritize objectives in the most exposed geographical areas and to improve the evaluation of forest fire defence policy. As the summer season approaches, it must be borne in mind that the majority of fire starts are of human origin. These lights usually start along communication routes or from constructions. Public action to defend forests reduces the risk of fire, but the key to preserving our forest heritage lies in the prudent and responsible behaviour of every citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u36	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u37	Madam Minister, thank you, but the Minister of Agriculture did not provide you with any response to the NFB, and I regret it because it is an important point. Secondly, with regard to urbanization and the growing tourism flows mentioned in your response, they should not be further increased by the provisions of the ELAN bill for the adaptation of the coastal law. I spoke at the meeting to question the Government on this matter. Finally, I will conclude with a proposal: why not organise general states of the Mediterranean forest, bringing together all the actors? This would make it possible to mobilize all available forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u38	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor to raise her question, No. 357 on the enclaving of the western mining basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u39	Minister responsible for transport, it is a wet Member of Parliament who has been working on public transport for six hours this morning, who is speaking before you... It should be noted that the Bethune station is the great sacrifice compared to Valenciennes in the SNCF planning on strike days. In the Hauts-de-France, the former mining basin has certain advantages: at the crossroads of Europe, it concentrates a large population, an important cultural heritage and recognized economic sectors. However, these advantages are undermined by a difficult conversion, following two centuries of mining and a strong closure, which results in an unemployment rate of up to ten points above the national average. With a view to responding to these problems and finally giving the territory a second chance, a commitment to the renewal of the former mining basin has been made between the Government and local actors: this plan, of EUR 100 million over ten years, takes the part of housing, and, as far as its economic aspect is concerned, I welcome the creation of a free zone that will certainly create an environment conducive to entrepreneurship and thus to employment. However, I wonder about the relevance of the scheme in the absence of an adequate mobility strategy. Transport is in fact neglected in the plan to de-enclave the territory, despite work on the RN17 and the A21. The example of the agglomeration of Béthunois, to the west of the former mining basin, is evocative: it is incomprehensible that the 300,000 inhabitants of a living basin located thirty minutes from the metropolis of Lille are under house arrest, for lack of satisfactory service. One of the lessons learned by the Assises de la mobilité on the impact of the territorial divide on social inclusion is that it is time to offer a real policy of planning services and transport infrastructure to the west of the former mining basin, a relay to the rural heart of the department. I am aware of the financial constraint on the transport sector as on any other, but investing in the Hauts-de-Frances is a strategic decision for the future. Madam Minister, what concrete measures are you proposing to connect the west of the former mining basin to Lille, Amiens or Dunkirk, and therefore to the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u40	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u41	Madam Member, as you will recall, the Government is fully aware of the difficulties of this territory, in particular the problems of industrial conversion. As such, a partnership commitment between the state and the communities was signed in March 2017 to reinvigorate the mining basin through a proactive policy, notably in terms of housing, but also in terms of mobility. This commitment includes the implementation of several major road operations to improve the service of the territory to the west of the mining basin, between Bethune and Lens: setting up twice two routes of the RN17 between Vimy and Avion, financed entirely by the State for an amount of 26 million euros, the work having begun last year; twice two A21 tracks at the crossing of the A26, financed by the State to the tune of €8.4 million, and the work also started last year and will be completed in 2020. Moreover, the motorway network of Nord and Pas-de-Calais seems dense enough to provide all services to the north and east of the Hauts-de-France region in good conditions. To the south, on the connection between Bethune and Amiens via the RN25, traffic and traffic conditions do not seem to justify an expansion of this axis to twice two lanes. However, some improvements to security and fluidity are necessary and have been included in the State-region plan contract. The development of the RN25 will therefore continue in the context of the next multi-annual programming exercises.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u42	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u43	Minister, the work you indicate will fluidize the flow to the east of the former mining basin, but in no way to the north. However, there is a lack of a bar between the A25 and the A26, the two motorways being parallel, while their connection would make it possible to unblock the Roquette factory, which has 3000 employees. Roquette must be connected to A25 and A26 in a much more significant way. On the other hand, you did not reply to me on the train, in this case the rail service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u44	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau to put his question, No 352, on the destruction of mills.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u45	Madam Minister responsible for transport, I am sorry to ask you a question that is absolutely not your concern. In the past, each minister concerned came to the oral questions meeting. At the same time, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the very serious problem posed by the planned destruction of the mills in France, and thus that of thousands of thousands of thousands of biotopes... You understand why I wish I had asked Mr. Hulot this question. Today, mills are seen as obstacles to ecological continuity and the good condition of rivers. But sometimes we don't think enough: after churches and castles, the 60,000 mills are France's third heritage and have a real socio-economic usefulness. Do you know, for example, that mills can produce hydropower and that some of them do? Clean and ecological, it can not only allow self-production, but also significant savings! They contribute fully to the economic life of our neighbourhood, but also to the tourist and cultural animation of our rural areas. The existence of mills is directly threatened by a dogmatic and excessive application of the principle of restoration of ecological continuity by the water police. This continuity has always been foreseen during the construction of the mills, but not maintained over the centuries. Minister, what does Mr. Hulot intend to do to protect our heritage?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u46	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u47	Mr President, your question is addressed to Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. But, unable to be present, he asked me to answer you, which I am happy to do given the sensitive issue on which your question relates. Restoring the ecological continuity of rivers, i.e. the free movement of fish and sediments, is an essential component of the good condition of water bodies in accordance with the Water Framework Directive. This continuity is mainly affected by thresholds and dams on streams that prevent, more or less strongly, the movement of fish to their habitats, refuges and spawning grounds, drown some of these elements and store sediments. To reduce these effects, the Act provides for stream classifications that make it mandatory for existing minor bed structures to ensure fish circulation and sediment transport where this is an important issue. This concern is old, since the first law to impose the possibility of crossing the works by fish dates back to 1865, before the major dams and well before the pollution of the 20th century. The implementation of ecological continuity requires the reconciliation of several important issues such as hydropower and heritage. Some stakeholders express strong reactions. However, the restoration of continuity has in no way the objective and consequence of the destruction of the mills, since it concerns only the thresholds in the minor bed of the watercourses and that various development solutions exist. In order to appease these exacerbated oppositions, a working group has been set up within the National Water Council; the federations of defence of the mills and the Association of the riparians of France are fully associated. Composed of representatives of all stakeholders, this working group met five times between October 2017 and the end of May 2018; It has been entrusted by the National Water Council with a mission of listening, analysis and synthesis, formulated in the form of a draft action plan to improve the implementation of ecological continuity on the ground. The National Water Committee will deliver an opinion on the draft plan, which will be sent to the Minister of State shortly. I have no doubt, in view of the work of the working group, that these will enable it to take the necessary steps to facilitate a more smooth implementation of ecological continuity with respect for the different parties, the different issues and the European regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u48	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u49	Above all, it is not a question of destroying the mills, but of destroying what holds water for the mills, and therefore also biotopes. When the mills were built, a ditch was always planned to reach downstream above the water hold, and that ditch allowed the passage of fish – I recall that in the 19th century workers had even gone on strike because they were tired of eating only salmon, the latter being in abundance in all the rivers of France. Ecological continuity existed well, and it would be all the more aberration to destroy the bays if we could no longer use the mills for the production of hydropower.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u50	Mr Taugurdeau, I would not want our colleagues to think that it was the minister in charge who systematically answered the oral questions in previous legislatures. I wish to point out that the Constitutional Council was seized of this matter on 21 January 1964, and that of course it had confirmed that the Government was completely free to appoint the minister it wished.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u51	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to speak on her question, No. 351 on the use of auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u52	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, one of the measures in Bill PACTE – Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation – is to remove the requirement for some companies to have an auditor to certify their annual accounts. Contrary to the arguments put forward by the Government, this measure will, on the one hand, penalise small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for almost 60 per cent of the value added produced in France, and, on the other hand, harm the employment and vitality of the territories. The report of the General Inspectorate of Finance, which recommends raising the threshold to make it mandatory to call an auditor, notes, however, that this measure will mechanically lead to the concentration of the audit market for the benefit of the seven world's largest firms, most of them foreign firms, located in Paris and in the major cities, to the detriment of the local economy. Overall, 153,000 out of 190,000, or 80 per cent, would disappear, resulting in the closure of 50 per cent of the auditors. In the Regional Chamber of Auditors in Grenoble, close to 120 firms are expected to close, resulting in a loss of more than 220 jobs and 17.5 million euros of turnover if this measure were to enter into force. However, you are aware that the auditor is the keystone of trust, thanks to his major role in alerting and preventing defaults in companies. According to a number of recent studies, firms using an auditor's services would have a default rate of 10.9 per cent, compared to 18.4 per cent for those doing so. I would add that the inefficiency of the measure envisaged by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has been proven on several occasions in countries such as Sweden, Denmark and Italy, which are now backtracking. So, Madam Secretary of State, why not reconsider as it stands the issue of mandatory corporate statutory audit thresholds, and consider in a more concerted manner with the profession adjustments that are acceptable and beneficial to the ambitions of Bill PACTE?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u53	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u54	Member of Parliament, in the PACTE bill, the Government wants to ease the obligations imposed on small businesses in order to facilitate their development. In this context, it is envisaged to raise the thresholds for the legal certification of accounts by an auditor to the level provided for by European law, i.e. EUR 8 million in turnover, EUR 4 million in balance sheet and EUR 50 employees. An analysis conducted by the General Finance Inspectorate concluded that the relevance of lower statutory audit thresholds than those set by European law was not established. Our approach is consistent with the Government's objective of eliminating over-transpositions of European law in our national law; It is also fully consistent with the Government's guidelines for establishing a new contract with companies, a contract based on the restoration of mutual trust between the State and economic actors. However, I recognize that raising the audit thresholds is a challenge for the profession of auditor, involving a profound change in its activity. In order to study in detail the consequences of this reform and to consider the necessary accompanying measures, Bruno Le Maire, together with his colleague Nicole Belloubet, Minister of Justice, Keeper of the Seals, requested the support of a mission chaired by Patrick de Cambourg, President of the Accounting Standards Authority, on the future of the profession. The findings of this mission will enable the Government to adopt, by the summer of 2018, an action plan to accompany the implementation of the increase in audit thresholds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u55	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u56	If we are all in favour of simplifying business measures, what you are considering is not in the right direction, Madam Secretary of State. Indeed, your measures will cause terrible damage. As you know, the intervention of the auditors allows the certification of companies' accounts and thus promotes – we must not forget – their transparency. In addition, these measures will cause major social and human damage, which will have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u57	The floor is open to Mr Gérard Cherpion, to put his question, No. 354, concerning the closure of the Intermarché logistics base in Saint-Dié-des-Vosges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u58	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Saint-Dié-des-Vosges employment pool will soon experience an industrial and human tragedy. If these words are strong, they reflect a reality. Currently, Intermarché brings more than 200 employees and their families to Saint-Dié-des-Vosges, thanks to its logistics base for packaging and shipping fresh and cold products. This distribution centre serves the entire region. The group had indicated its intention to group the cold products and dry products on a larger site. Following this announcement, the department of Vosges and the community of agglomeration of Saint-Dié-des-Vosges made a joint proposal allowing the reconstruction of a new equipment located less than three kilometers from the current site and corresponding to the needs of the group. Las, Intermarché announced its intention to relocate this logistics base to the Jura. The group is accustomed to such relocations: about ten centres in France are thus in abeyance. This decision will result in the destruction of 212 direct jobs and more than 300 indirect jobs, particularly in the maintenance and logistics industries. In a letter dated January 17, 2018, I alerted the Minister of Economy and Finance. I have also recently discussed this issue with the Prime Minister, who is very listening. However, the decision of the ITM Group seems irreversible. In an employment pool where the unemployment rate is above the national average, the local development of the enterprise could have created 200 new jobs. Madam Secretary of State, failing to bring the ITM Group back on its decision, and beyond the measures provided for by the law in the event of the closure of a site – which I hope will be applied with the utmost firmness – what specific measures does the Government intend to take to allow the site to be converted and the establishment of new companies? The employees of companies in our territory are workers and have skills, sometimes without their qualifications being recognised. Their future should not be influenced by the unilateral decision of a group that is not experiencing economic difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u59	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u60	As you pointed out, ITM justified its decision to close the Saint-Dié-des-Vosges site by redefining its distribution areas in 2016 with a view to reducing its transport costs. This strategy leads to a rationalisation of logistics activity. It is in this context that during an extraordinary meeting of the central works council, on April 5, 2018, the company confirmed its choice to transfer its fresh product packaging activities from the Saint-Dié-des-Vosges base to Rochefort-sur-Nenon. Indeed, it wishes to consolidate in a single warehouse both the activities of the Saint-Dié base and those of the dry products packaging of the Rochefort-sur-Nenon base. This transfer is expected to take place at the end of 2021. More than 300 employees are involved, of which 206 are currently covered by an open-ended contract. Be assured that public authorities will ensure that employees receive the best possible support. The aim is to improve their employability with appropriate measures taken prior to the introduction of an employment safeguard plan, a PES. The group is committed to investing over the next three years in the reclassification of employees and the revitalization of the territory. Similarly, government departments will be careful to ensure that every effort is made to find a contractor to preserve activity and employment on the site. I will be particularly vigilant about the development of the situation. As the President of the Republic wished during a recent visit to the Vosges, a territorial development contract could also be set up. In addition, the Government is heavily mobilized to support industrial change. One of its priorities is in particular the development of training to accompany the transition to work as part of the Skills Investment Plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u61	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u62	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the words you have just made: they illustrate the strong will of the Government and the President of the Republic. I hope that a working group will soon be set up around the prefect of the Vosges department to monitor, together with the ITM group, the evolution of the situation almost on a day-to-day basis, in order to prepare a smooth transition, with a successful conversion of the site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u63	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, who has raised his question, No. 359, concerning the situation of General Electric in Belfort.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u64	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, my question concerns the General Electric company and its presence in the national territory, mainly on the Belfort site. In 2015, following numerous negotiations led first by the Minister of Economy Arnaud Montebourg, and then by his successor Emmanuel Macron, who is therefore very aware of the subject, an agreement was reached to seal the rapprochement between Alstom and General Electric. This agreement was consistent, as it aimed to create a world leader in the field of energy, capable of confronting other major players in the market. It should lead to the creation of a centre capable of developing employment and activity. Under this agreement, which was mainly aimed at the development of the site of the Territory of Belfort, it was planned to create 1000 jobs by the end of 2018, with each unrealised job creation resulting in a fine of €50000. Since his signature, however, General Electric has had great difficulties, which no one denies. On the ground, the group's employees are very worried because the promises made in 2015 are clearly not being kept. Indeed, it seems that the process of reindustrialization and relocation takes place in favour of the American sites of the group: we learn that the pieces are even identified directly from the United States, not in France! Employees are not the only ones concerned: this is also the case for small and medium-sized subcontractors in the group. In the framework of the agreement, many of them have in fact signed, at the request of General Electric, production agreements providing for commitments in terms of quantity of production or new products. These agreements have often required very strong investment from them. As a result, some 10 SMEs invested heavily, as the agreement guaranteed them a certain volume of activity. However, the activity is not at hand, which General Electric does not deny, since the group has clearly indicated by mail to its subcontractors that it would unfortunately not be able to comply with the agreement. These SMEs are therefore extremely vulnerable; the risk is to lose 200 to 300 jobs on site only from subcontractors. My question is simple: what do the State and the Government intend to do just to enforce the agreement? Will they negotiate with General Electric to maintain the group's presence on French territory? The concerns are great. As I have indicated, some parts references are made directly from the United States and are completely outside local control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u65	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u66	As you said, the Government is very attentive and vigilant about the follow-up to the commitments made by General Electric at the time of Alstom's acquisition of energy activities. If these commitments were not intended to prohibit the undertaking from carrying out restructuring where necessary, they must be offset, over the period concerned, by job creation in growing sectors. I note that General Electric has made significant investments in our territory, in sectors such as renewable energy, particularly in the development of its new generation of wind turbines. The group has also created jobs in the medical and digital sectors. In any event, the State must remain particularly attentive to what is happening on the Belfort site and its ecosystem. The outlook for nuclear power turbines is positive, thanks in particular to the orders obtained in the United Kingdom, Finland and Turkey. On the other hand, the market prospects for gas turbines are more difficult, in a context of energy transition which also affects Alstom-GE's European competitors. With regard to the specific situation in Belfort, the State will be particularly vigilant with regard to the fulfilment of General Electric's commitments and the situation of the subcontracting SMEs you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u67	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u68	Madam Secretary of State, if economic growth is not decreed, which I understand, we will still have to be very vigilant about this agreement, because the major groups sometimes tend to disregard those they have signed. In addition, if there are reductions in orders, which can be conceived, special support must be given to those SMEs that have invested. The State has tools to ensure that they are not overly burdened, that their investments are facilitated or that their loan maturities are spread. This seems essential to me, because the information that General Electric gives you does not correspond at all to what we are living on the ground. Thus, when the group hires an employee in an SME, it considers this to be a job creation. This is not quite the case: by doing so, it deprives SMEs of their best-performing fabric and employees. For the local employment pool, this is obviously not a job creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u69	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to put her question, No. 344, on the sweeping tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u70	My question was to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts. It concerns the modernisation of local taxation in connection with the abolition of the housing tax. I'm counting on you to relay it, Madam Secretary of State. There are many low-used taxes. I would like to draw your attention to one of them: the sweeping tax, which was created in 1873. Only four municipalities cover it, two of which are located in the electoral district that elected me: Levallois-Perret has been applying it since 2009 and Clichy-la-Garenne has been applying it for a few months. I have, moreover, been repeatedly questioned by Clichois and Clichoises who were unpleasantly surprised when they discovered that they were subject to this new tax, far from being negligible and payable very quickly. Pursuant to Article 1528 of the General Tax Code, municipalities may, upon deliberation by the municipal council, introduce this sweeping tax. Regardless of the size of your home, only the length of the façade and the width of the sidewalk are taken into account. These elements can lead to a tax of up to several thousand euros if you have the chance to own a pavilion that makes the corner of a street. At the time of reflections on local taxation, some municipalities might be tempted to use this tax, which is very misunderstood by the inhabitants because perceived as unfair or even inoperative on the cleanliness of the streets. Would it not be wise, then, to rethink this tax, or even to consider abolishing it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u71	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u72	Madam Member, you have pointed out very well the characteristics of this sweeping tax, which is quite special since it is applied in only four communes. Due to the riparian owners of public roads, or by the syndicate of co-owners where the building concerned is subject to the status of co-ownership of built buildings, it is recoverable from the tenant as rental charges. Its amount is calculated according to specific rules. Indeed, it does not take into account the rental value of the buildings or the number of owners concerned: it is seated on the road surfaces facing these properties. With EUR 113 million in 2017, however, it represents a significant financial challenge. Its product, however, is extremely concentrated, since the City of Paris alone receives 92%. The Government therefore shares your legitimate question about the future of this tax, which has not been very successful, even though it is an important resource for some communities. Following the announcement of the abolition of the housing tax by the President of the Republic, you know that a reflection aimed at overhauling the overall local taxation has been initiated. In this context, an evolution of the sweeping tax, its merger with other taxes, or even its abolition, can be envisaged, as proposed in the report by MM. Dominique Bur, former prefect, and Alain Richard, former minister, on the local tax reform presented to the Prime Minister on May 9, 2018. At this stage of reflection, no solution is favoured or ruled out. Of course, the decision will be taken taking into account the financing needs of the communities, and after consultation with local elected representatives, in particular those affected by the tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u73	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u74	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. It is important to recall that a reflection has taken place on local taxation. It is also important that the future of this tax be considered in consultation with local elected representatives, but perhaps also with the populations concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u75	I call Mr. Ugo Bernalicis to put his question, No. 332, on the reform of Public Action 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u76	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, for too long, under the guise of simplifying and rationalizing the system, Liberal governments have devalued public services and public servants. It's a fact. No one is fooled, and for too long, we have been seeking both to discourage the recruitment of civil servants and to force their work: I want to point out that the freezing of the index point, such as the increase in the general social contribution, the CSG, which has a more negative impact for them than for private employees, is still ongoing. Last October, your government commissioned a group of thirty-four "high-level" personalities to imagine the future reform of the state, local authorities and social security. This group is referred to as "Public Action Committee 2022", or "CAP 22". First of all, I wonder about the philosophy that guided the Government in appointing the members of that group. Mr. Ross McInnes is a pure product of the private sector, a member of the Thales Group and now Chairman of the Safran Board of Directors; Ms Véronique Bédague-Hamilius is Secretary General of Nexity and was previously an economist at the International Monetary Fund and former Chief of Staff of Prime Minister Manuel Valls; Mr. Frédéric Mion, a senior French official, is Director of Sciences Po Paris and former Secretary General of Canal Plus. In this group, it is the experts who speak to the experts: plethora of enarques, members of inspection corps, polytechnicians, HEC graduates – obviously, to talk about public service! – a member of the Rothschild group, or Laurent Bigorgne, director of the Institut Montaigne, who, as everyone knows, is a great lover of civil servants. A shock group to dismantle the public service! I note great absences: civil servants and democracy. Indeed, with only one representative from the CFDT, the unions are almost non-existent, there is no representative of officials from the middle of the ropes or the last of the ropes, who are nevertheless at the closest to the realities, nor any representative of the citizens. You've made the choice to have personalities from private companies prevail – perhaps by dogmatism? We see this as a desire for privatisation that is felt from the beginning of the Public Action 2022 programme. Let's get to the bottom. You claim to have conducted a consultation, but less than 10,000 public service employees responded to it, out of the 5.5 million people in the public service who could have done so. Civil servants are attached to their public services and working conditions. However, the quality of service is deteriorating. Whose fault is it? It is the successive austerity policies, which have constantly reduced the budgetary and human resources of public services; It's also campaigns of denigration against civil servants. Here are some specific questions. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, assure us that digital technology will not lead to the closure of physical receptions of the public, which are already under-numbered in the territory. You want to reduce the number of civil servants by 120000, all public functions combined, and at the same time you want to expand the use of contract workers: is this a strategy for the gradual replacement of public officials by private agents? When you talk about increasing the share of contract workers, are they people hired under open-ended contracts? How do you intend to involve citizens, public service users, in your reforms?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u77	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u78	Mr. Member, in the absence of my colleague in charge of the public service, I will provide you with his answers. You're interested in Public Action 2022. CAP 22 is an independent committee of some 40 members, combining economists, private and public sector personalities and elected officials. The aim of this composition was to avoid a double pitfall: that of a completely external look to the administration, disconnected from public problems; and that of the exclusive gaze of the administration on itself. The group was tasked with conducting an in-depth reflection on the missions and expenditures of twenty-one priority public policies, taking into account the scope of all public administrations. The working arrangements were based on group reflections, numerous hearings of qualified personalities, written contributions and workshops, which allowed some of the proposed solutions to be quickly tested. Committee members also worked closely with departments through regular iterations. A consultation was opened, including for staff members. This approach therefore responds to a desire for consultation and consultation, through an extremely broad collection of ideas. It is a strong marker of the originality of the Public Action 2022 approach. Beyond the thematic vision, a cross-cutting vision was provided by the three presidents. The committee has not yet issued its report. While it will include several proposals for sectoral reforms, it will first present a vision for future public action. Contrary to what you seem to fear, its purpose is not to push for a widespread withdrawal from the State, nor to devalue public services and civil servants. It is the core of public action that will be valued, around the values of accountability and trust that the Government stands for, and also by building a new social contract, placing the focus on results at the centre of public action or capitalizing on the opportunities offered by digital technology. Ultimately, it is a question of anchoring the transformational dynamics over time, and of doing so in a dialogue with officials and users.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u79	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u80	I would like to take advantage of the few seconds left to say how disappointed I am with this answer. I understand that we have a concert, a discussion, a dialogue, but, in concrete terms, will the contractors you propose to use be recruited under an open-ended contract or a fixed-term contract? Will 120,000 civil servants be abolished in all public functions? What about the physical reception of users? Unfortunately, I'm still hungry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u81	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for participating in this oral question-and-answer session without debate. The meeting was suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u82	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u83	The next speaker is Mr Pierre Vatin, to put his question, No. 349, on urban rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u84	My question, addressed to the Minister of the Interior, is about violence in certain areas of the national territory. Our fellow citizens are left to the authorities on a daily basis, both in terms of the security of everyday life and of justice. It has become commonplace to suffer from a crime that rots life long, the judicial arsenal does not prevent recidivism. Unfortunately, the considerable financial resources used for many years to find judicial, educational and social solutions to this perpetual crime are of no use. I therefore ask you what innovative means the Government intends to put in place to recover this young person from the drift that the school system is not able to interest and that parents who are demotivated or outdated cannot contain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u85	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u86	Mr President, the state does not stand up to violence, justice is not recidivism, financial resources are not used to buy us a good conscience and our youth is not just a rejection of the school system. What we need is resolute action in all areas. May I remind you that the President of the Republic presented on 22 May the main axes of the national mobilization that the Government intends to lead in favour of the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods. These are safety, housing, accommodation and the place of life, education and health. Security is a fundamental foundation of this plan. First of all, it involves the major reform of the day-to-day security police. This means reconnecting with the presence of internal security forces in the neighbourhoods and with the practice of islanding, as well as bringing about a change in the relationship between the internal security forces and the actors in the neighbourhoods. The daily security police will apply throughout the territory, in a spirit of republican reconquest. Sixty republican reconquest districts will be created in the police zone during the quinquennium, half of which by 2019, and an additional 1300 police officers will be assigned – a high figure. In thirty already selected neighbourhoods, massive reinforcements will be deployed between September 2018 and January 2019. A Commissioner for Police-Population Cohesion will be established in each neighbourhood. Secondly, the ongoing work on the simplification of criminal procedures will speed up the processing of criminal procedures, thus providing faster and more appropriate responses in neighbourhoods. A bill will be introduced in Parliament shortly by my colleague seal keeper, Minister of Justice. This project will propose, inter alia, that certain offences that have so far been poorly punished be subject to lump-sum fines, which will be imposed on offenders in the portfolio. At the same time, the reduction of undue charges that remove police and gendarmes from their priority operational missions will increase their physical presence in the neighbourhoods. Thirdly, the Government is finalizing a plan of general mobilization to combat drug and drug trafficking. Indeed, the networks of traffickers are deconstructing these neighbourhoods. The response to this scourge will be comprehensive and inter-ministerial, and it will combine prevention and repression. Fourthly, we have begun work to build a vigilant society. We must move from a model in which the state alone assumes responsibility for security to a model in which every citizen is an actor in collective protection. This is an important change of philosophy, which will enable everyone in these neighbourhoods to become aware and accountable, in addition to the responsibilities that the State intends to take through the measures I have just listed. Finally, there are all the measures concerning education and training, the implementation of which has already begun. We work there for the future. These different strands – safety, health, training – are all factors of positive change, and I hope we will be able to welcome the effectiveness in a few months or years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u87	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u88	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I associate myself with your wishes and hope that this plan will not be limited to an announcement effect, but will have concrete consequences. Be aware that we will remain vigilant on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u89	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 356 concerning the connection of Buzet-sur-Tarn to an EPCI.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u90	My question was to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for agreeing to represent him. This question concerns the connection of the commune of Buzet-sur-Tarn, located in the department of Haute-Garonne, in my constituency, to the public institution of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – of his wish. Currently, the municipality of Buzet-sur-Tarn is attached to the community of Tarn-Agout communes, established in 1994 and located on the border with the departments of Tarn and Haute-Garonne. This community of communes comprises twenty-two communes, of which twenty are located in the department of Tarn and only two in the department of Haute-Garonne: Buzet-sur-Tarn and the very small municipality of Azas. Since 2015, the elected representatives of Buzet-sur-Tarn, supported by many elected representatives of the Haute-Garonne, have asked to leave the community of Tarn-Agout communes to join an EPCI located exclusively in Haute-Garonne, namely the community of communes of Val'Aïgo. This community of communes consists of eight communes located in the extreme north of the Haute-Garonne department. This coherent will stems from a better economic and geographical logic, and from greater ease in pooling resources and access to certain services and financing. Indeed, the municipality of Buzet-sur-Tarn is naturally oriented towards the Haute-Garonne and towards the community of communes of Val'Aïgo, in particular towards the towns of Bessières and Villemur-sur-Tarn. In fact, there are already many co-operations between the two communities, for example with regard to driving licences, education or cultural activities. Conversely, the Tarn-Agout community is resolutely oriented towards the Tarn and the towns of Albi and Castres. Following the favourable and concordant deliberations held in 2015, both at the Buzet-sur-Tarn City Council and at the community council of the community of communes of Val'Aïgo, a prefectural decree dated November 2016 extended the scope of this community of communes to the municipality of Buzet-sur-Tarn. However, this order was brought before the courts by the communes of the Tarn-Agout community, so that Buzet-sur-Tarn found himself between two fires. As the spokesperson for the local elected representatives, I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to pay particular attention to this matter, so that the municipality of Buzet-sur-Tarn can join the community of communes of its choice as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u91	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u92	Mr. Deputy, you call the attention of the Government to the difficulties encountered by the commune of Buzet-sur-Tarn, located in Haute-Garonne, to join the community of communes Val'Aïgo, which would be that of his choice, and which is located in the same department. As you recalled, the municipality of Buzet-sur-Tarn has expressed its will to withdraw from the community of communes to which it belongs, and which was located in the department of Tarn, to join, therefore, the community of communes Val'Aïgo in 2015, in the context of the implementation of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, called "NOTRe", which redefined the contours of intercommunalities. This will was part of the need to strengthen and rationalise the intercommunal map. In particular, it allowed the EPCIs to meet the obligation to meet minimum population thresholds, but also the criterion of territorial coherence, which is still the basis of the law. On the basis of the agreement of the community of communes Val'Aïgo, its member communes and the departmental commission for intercommunal cooperation of the Haute-Garonne, the representative of the State of this department pronounced the attachment of the commune of Buzet-sur-Tarn to the community of communes Val'Aïgo from 1 January 2017. This order was appealed to the administrative courts. Currently, an appeal in cassation following an interim order is still pending before the Council of State. The Toulouse Administrative Court has not yet given its decision on the merits. As litigation is still ongoing, it is not possible for me to speak further on this matter. However, I would like to inform you that the prefects of Tarn and Haute-Garonne have always accompanied the negotiations undertaken by the various parties since 2016. These negotiations are continuing to date, and I have no doubt that the local authorities concerned will be committed to finding the best solution for their future and, above all, for their inhabitants. For my part, I can assure you, Mr Member, that the representatives of the State in the two departments concerned, such as the central departments of the Ministry of the Interior, will continue to accompany the various stakeholders in this spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u93	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u94	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The mayor of Buzet-sur-Tarn, his elected representatives and residents are looking forward to these decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u95	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor to raise her question, No. 342, on the fight against drugs and addictive behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u96	My question, Madam Secretary of State, is to your colleague Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. Drug use and trafficking are a global challenge to our society as a whole. From health to safety, from education to justice, the fight against drugs and addictive behaviour is a cross-cutting priority. The observation is national: 17 million French people have already used cannabis, and 9% of 17-year-olds are regular smokers. On the other hand, 2.2 million people have already used cocaine. This drug currently has 450,000 users, and 3.2% of young people have already used it. The government is responding strongly: 71 tons of cannabis, 8.5 tons of cocaine and 1.2 million ecstasy tablets were seized in 2016. In Longjumeau, in my constituency, the situation of 900 dwellings in the Rocade and Bel-Air neighbourhoods is both revealing and instructive. A real parallel organisation gnaws the daily life of the inhabitants: control of building halls, constant night cries, body searches, damage to property or intimidation. I know that, contrary to what some people would like us to believe, the state imposes the republican order and respect for the law by committing strong means for this city: in early 2017, a day crime brigade was created, and in January 2018, a mechanism to combat the phenomenon seven days a week was activated. I welcome these interventions with which the municipal police are associated. They lead to almost daily arrests, which disrupt the organization of traffic. Since the beginning of 2018, thirty-two individuals have been arrested, not to mention the even more numerous miners who play the role of watchmen. The new daily security police must step up this proactive action. It will allow a more local, finer and more attentive approach to the French, especially those who live in places affected by traffic. Similarly, the introduction of a flat-rate fine immediately taxable to consumers in place of an inappropriate criminal policy must deter users. This must also abound the funding of a broad policy of prevention of addictions in schools, businesses, students and all our fellow citizens. As vice-president of the addiction study group, I welcome the announcements made in this regard by Édouard Philippe and Agnès Buzyn during the presentation of the national public health plan dedicated to the prevention of addictions. An integrated approach to both law enforcement and the promotion of prevention and health is essential in a comprehensive strategy. By your action, Madam Secretary of State, you are placing the Republic at the heart of our neighbourhoods in order to restore serenity. I know your actions and your determination not to abandon our neighbourhoods. In this fight, repression and prevention must go hand in hand. Can you tell us how the Government intends to synchronize preventive and repressive responses to drugs, addictive behaviour and drug trafficking at the inter-ministerial level?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u97	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u98	As you pointed out, honourable Member, narcotic drugs are a scourge both for public health and social cohesion and for public order. The establishment of networks destructures the neighbourhoods that are victims of it while creating cohorts of dependent people. To this global scourge, the Government responds through a comprehensive, inter-ministerial policy that combines prevention and repression, health and safety, national and local levels. A new national plan to mobilize against addictions is being developed by the Inter-Ministerial Mission to Combat Drugs and Addictive Conduct, which coordinates the prevention and suppression of addictive behaviour at the national level. This new plan will be devolved locally by the prefects, who will lead in each department the action of all government departments by adapting it to local issues and issues. No territory is in fact identical to another. First of all, this plan will allow us to extend the current momentum of the law enforcement agencies, which you have mentioned. In 2017, the dismantling of trafficking increased by 13%, resellers were arrested by 4%, and seizures of cannabis and cocaine increased by 23% and 105%, respectively. Seizures of criminal assets reached a record high of over €62.6 million in 2017. These very encouraging results must be translated into concrete improvements in the lives of the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods affected by drug trafficking. That is why we are making the fight against drugs one of the important aspects of the daily security police, with a significant increase in the presence on the public road, in the very places that traffickers seek to appropriate. Police officers and gendarmes will also be able to punish consumers more effectively, with the creation of a flat-rate fine for the offence of the consumption of narcotics. This measure is included in the proposed 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, which was forwarded to Parliament. The testing of vehicle pipes after the use of narcotics has already been and will continue to be greatly increased. The new salivary sampling confirmation method is beginning to produce very positive results. Finally, the national plan to mobilize against addictions will provide a road map for the 350 anti-drug training police officers and the 400 counter-drug trainers of the gendarmerie, who carry out numerous preventive actions on a daily basis for the public in schools, students and professionals. These police officers and military personnel, the first national actors in the prevention of addictions, raise awareness of the law enforcement and the risks of addictive behaviour every year. Prevention actions, I believe, will also be carried out in the health community: there are indeed messages to be conveyed, especially among the younger ones. This prevention, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed not only at young people but also at adults. The fight against the trivialization of narcotics is of course carried out in schools, businesses, associations or sports halls. It therefore requires genuine mobilization. Wherever we can raise awareness, we will go; Wherever offenders think they can trade, we'll be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u99	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u100	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your very precise answer. The people rely on us and on our determined action. And I know, from this point of view, that I can count on the Government's determination with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u101	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. We will have to suspend the sitting because Mr Castaner, Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, is currently participating in the Conference of Presidents, and I understand that it lasts longer than usual.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u102	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u103	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u104	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferriere spoke of his question, No 338, concerning the "1% artistic" scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u105	My question is for the Minister of Culture. Article 6 of the Act of July 2016 requires the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the implementation of the "1% artistic" scheme, which allows the State and local and regional authorities to allocate 1% of the cost of public works operations to support artistic projects in both urban and rural areas. This measure is largely supported by actors in the sector, including the National Federation of Street Arts. As mayor of the 9th arrondissement of Lyon, for many years I have been able to see the wealth of such a dynamic for a territory. At a time when we need to get the culture out of its walls, the introduction of the "1% artistic" seems to me essential to contribute to better territorial equity, since this time it will affect the entire national territory. The scheme is thus fully integrated into the "Culture near you" plan, which the Government announced on 29 March, as it will allow the arts to develop in the public space at the local level. This is the challenge of this plan, which, in addition to the integration of culture in all territories, aims at the integration of culture in all walks of life. The encounter of culture and public space is represented in an exemplary way by the street arts: the emotion shared by and with all, the gratuitousness, the real accessibility, without condition of resources, nor of social belonging, the participatory dimension, the inventiveness and adaptability of this sector are a valuable accompaniment to our urban policies to live together. As we know, it is more than necessary today to support any initiative that revives membership of the Republic. The arts, especially street arts, are part of this ambition. What follow-up does the Ministry of Culture intend to give to the interministerial report resulting from the 2016 law, submitted on 8 November? Does it intend to put in place a tool and processes to meet the expectations of the communities, which are very motivated by this opportunity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u106	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u107	Mr President, I would like to begin by apologizing to Françoise Nyssen, who is in charge of the day, both because of the situation in the public audiovisual sector and because of the examination in this Chamber on Thursday morning of the proposal for a law on combating false information. You evoke an important subject, that of the place of culture in the city, in public space and in citizen ownership. Very often, as we know, access to culture is hampered by the doors of museums, which appear to be forbidden. This blockage is rarely linked to the price of access to these establishments. We know the importance of these artistic and cultural projects in the urban factory, to take up the title of the report you refer to, and the need to support them. This can be done in different ways, either through a mandatory investment, which has certain limits, which you yourself have mentioned, or by reaffirming that artistic intervention must be part of the very process of transformation of the city. The authors of the report to which you refer recommend not to create a "1% artistic" device, but to give the opportunity to the owners and operators to deliberate freely in order to promote the presence of art in the urban factory. There are two pitfalls: first, that of automatic additional costs; Then, that of the political command. As a local elected candidate, you have had to face the difficulty of judging the quality of certain artistic creations when you were working on your choice. The Department of Culture also wants to focus on this non-regulatory solution, which would not create additional constraints in the development process and would not create a new burden for communities. As I said, it is important to reaffirm the role of artistic intervention. Culture clauses could also be included in the contract specifications for contracts between public authorities and their operators and public works and construction undertakings. They could provide for artistic interventions based on successful experiments. The Société du Grand Paris has now integrated this dynamic. Your experience in Lyon shows that one can actually adopt a state of mind that guides such an approach. It is of course intended to be supported by the Ministry of Culture. Such accompaniment can be achieved through the creation of experimental programmes in order to enhance successful experiences. The Minister of Culture and her services therefore welcome the recommendations of this report, which go in the right direction, that of better inclusion of the inhabitants and cultural projects. These interventions towards territories, particularly urban areas, can be based on homelessness and off-walls to foster cultural practices, discovery and dissemination. The conclusions of this report are in line with the Minister's priorities, in particular the "Culture Near You" plan, to which you referred, which aims to promote access to the culture of those who are now furthest from it. We must constantly pursue this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u108	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferriere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u109	We share the idea that culture really has a role to play in what makes urbanity. Having been mayor of a district comprising three priority districts of city politics, I was able to see how art in public space contributes to adherence to republican values and citizenship. It must be met when, in some communities, culture can act as a variable for fiscal adjustment: at a limited cost, it plays this very important role, in the public space, to contribute to citizenship and adherence to republican values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u110	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor to put his question, No 360, on the economic situation in the Ardennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u111	My question is to Mr Jacques Mézard, Minister for Territorial Cohesion. The department of the Ardennes is one of the territories which have both a strong industrial tradition and an agricultural dynamism. In recent decades, it has suffered from a loss of economic and demographic substance, which has accelerated with the 2008 crisis. It alone has led to the disappearance of 8,000 salaried jobs in the department. On October 27, I had the honour of meeting with you to describe this situation. Since then, I've multiplied my efforts. Today, Minister, through you, this is the state that I call for help for the Ardennes. I hope that the state will mobilize, with all the forces of the department, to build a real strategic plan Ardennes 2022. The Regional Council and the Departmental Council are voluntary to participate in this initiative. The objective is to define concrete priorities for action for the coming years, on which our department will be able to build its economic rebound and break away from the period of decline that it has just passed. I know that the state's resources are limited, but beyond the financial resources mobilized, the general interest requires us to seek out all the regulatory flexibilities that can foster this renewal; mobilising all means of engineering, in particular those of the future National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories and of the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of the Territories; make use of all the tools of the Caisse des dépôts. I therefore call on the Government to mobilize all the energies at the service of the Ardennes department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u112	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u113	Mr President, I know your commitment to this territory, your territory, whose peculiarities and suffering are known to all. The Ardennes department already occupies a singular place because of its geographical positioning. Its border situation with Belgium and its proximity to Luxembourg have consequences. What could be an asset, a force for this territory, leads him to face certain challenges, particularly in terms of attractiveness. If it is not useful to look for those responsible for this situation, which you do not do, it is clear that we have not collectively been able to overcome these difficulties. Much of the department, as we can see, is struggling to benefit from the prosperity of neighbouring territories. At the Ardennes level, the restructuring of the industry, particularly of metallurgy, has been affected by the difficulties of the automobile in recent years. It has had extremely heavy and humanly painful economic and social consequences: a very high poverty rate of 19.4 per cent compared to 14.5 per cent at the national level, and an unemployment rate of 11.3 per cent, well above that of the rest of the Greater East region. In view of this fact, for several years the State has committed itself and, whatever the politicians, special attention has been paid to departmental development. Major investments have been made under the Ardennes economic development contract implemented between 2007 and 2013, in response to the economic difficulties experienced by the department in the wake of its sectoral crises, in particular those of foundry and metallurgy. This strong support, however, did not achieve all the objectives pursued, particularly with regard to economic and residential attractiveness. Thus, the answer has not been commensurate with the signs of economic, social and demographic fragility that you have mentioned and that continue to exist. Don't doubt it, MP: the Government is at your side and with all the elected representatives to make progress on this issue. We must place at the heart of our action State intervention in favour of the most fragile territories. This priority was reaffirmed on 20 April at the Council of Ministers, during which Jacques Mézard spoke of our work to accompany several territories: the Creuse, the mining basin of Pas-de-Calais, but also and especially the Ardennes. The department of the Ardennes is therefore the subject of special attention in the context of the deployment of the various national arrangements which contribute to the cohesion of the territories. The cities of Charleville-Mézières and Sedan benefit from the "Action coeur de ville" programme. As such, they are accompanied in the definition and implementation of actions that can increase the attractiveness and dynamism of the urban centre. In addition, there are other devices that you have mentioned. It is essential that, on the basis of these various mechanisms and existing work, we can support the local and regional authorities and the Ardennes socio-economic actors in the definition and deployment of a concerted and partnership action plan. It is also essential that the determination of the modalities of this action be not decided and driven by the State, but co-built with all the actors, first among whom the elected representatives – those who sit in this Chamber, those of the local authorities – and the economic world that today resists, wants to fight, and on which we must rely. In this way, we will work together to develop an appropriate response to the requirements you have set out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u114	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u115	Thank you, Secretary of State, and the Government, for announcing this morning the launch of what you call a concerted and partnership action plan. This is an opportunity to mobilize, as you said, all the elected representatives, all the living forces, all the economic world. We're going to get to work this afternoon. I hope that we will be able to offer the Government tools that will allow us to bounce back. Thank you for listening and for your decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u116	Mr Didier Baichère has the floor to put his question, No. 336, on the economic inclusion of young people from the least favoured territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u117	As the Government is stepping up the deployment of investment plans in skills, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Labour to the challenge of economic inclusion through the employment of young people from the least privileged territories. Economic inclusion is a link between, on the one hand, the actions of the Government and the presidential majority in favour of enterprises and, on the other hand, the French and French. As the President of the Republic has pointed out, it is a matter of guaranteeing real rights throughout the territory of the Republic. Beyond the framework of the policy to combat discrimination in recruitment, taking over from social inclusion policies, economic inclusion is intended to be more systemic in that it incorporates the idea that a role of intermediation is necessary between recruiting companies and job-ready but potentially discriminated candidates. Thus, a measure as relevant and stimulating as frank jobs can only be successful if we accompany companies, particularly very small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises, to identify the talents they seek in the targeted territories. You will agree that a company does not recruit to receive a bonus, but to meet an acute need for skills. That is why I launched, with the Foundation Agir contre l'exclusion – FACE – and Mozaik RH, the "1000 young people plan: companies commit themselves". The aim is to create in Île-de-France, with the support of the prefect de région, a multi-stakeholder mechanism for intermediation. This experimental device is deployed in four pilot basins: Argenteuil, Plaine commune, Grigny and Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines. Its added value is to put the company at the heart of the process, to help it recruit faster and better by opening up new pool of candidates, and to make lasting changes in its recruitment and non-discrimination practices – I am thinking in particular of the testing campaigns that we plan to conduct. Once it is not customary, companies, through their representatives – MEDEF, CGSMEs, chambers of commerce and industry, youth leaders' centre – are directly integrated into the territorial management of the scheme, alongside the more traditional actors in employment, such as Pôle Emploi, the local mission, the Association pour l'emploi des cadres – APEC – and the regional management of enterprises, competition, consumption, labour and employment – DIRECCTE. Mr Secretary of State, what arrangements are you planning to put in place, particularly for SMEs and SMEs, to ensure that the fight against discrimination in hiring becomes an economic priority as well as corporate social responsibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u118	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u119	I like the phrase "union trait" that you used, Mr. Member of Parliament. On some subjects, we need to know how to link up instead of trying to decide from above and to apply systematically and uniformly, everywhere in France, policies that we believe are the right solution. This is particularly the case with regard to the economic inclusion of people residing in the most fragile territories. It is indeed, as we know, a major lever for growth as well as social cohesion; Moreover, there is not a single territory in difficulty, reproducible to 300 copies: they are all different. This issue is enshrined in Article 215 of the Equality and Citizenship Act of 27 January 2017, which entrusts its implementation to Pôle Emploi and the Association pour l'emploi des cadres – APEC – under the leadership of the State representative at the regional level. On the basis of the territorial diagnosis of the need for labour in the territories, we need to draw up consultation plans with local actors, which will then enable Pôle Emploi and APEC to deploy a range of services throughout the country, facilitating recruitment by enterprises, and drawing on a specific, competency-based approach of job seekers, which is also respectful of diversity. That is how we will be able to respond in practice to the proposals made and ensure the necessary portage. In addition, these two operators have entered into partnerships with certain associations carrying out intermediation missions, in particular to assist young qualified jobseekers. These partnerships are yielding results: the experience is recent, but the effects that it is beginning to produce are very positive, and this formula must continue to be used, from my point of view and from the Minister's point of view. The mobilisation of these associations reinforces the complementarity of action in the accompaniment of enterprises and non-discrimination. The "1000 young people's plan" that you have launched, which you have cited as an example, and which, without actually questioning the Government, you are putting forward – it is always useful to report good practices – illustrates this issue. It is essential, I repeat, not to look for a single scheme of intervention, but to always build, according to the needs of local companies and the specificities of the territories and the public, a suitable response. The representative of the State at the regional level must ensure the proper territorial meshing of this provision of services, and for this purpose is based on the departmental and infra-departmental levels of State services. Like you, I am convinced that Members also have this responsibility: to take the initiative, to propel, to incarnate, to carry – or even to provoke the services of the State if they show themselves to be a little too timid; I know that you will not fail to do so on your territory and, more generally, to serve as an example to all parliamentarians who sit with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u120	Mr Didier Baichère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u121	Thank you, Secretary of State, for stressing the need for an experiment at the territorial level. After a few months of working with the associations, I am firmly convinced that the solutions come from the consultation between the actors under the aegis of the prefect. However, I would like to draw your attention to the need for an approach specific to SMEs, whose teams are reduced and who do not always have the means to seek the explanations necessary to combat discrimination. Field experimentation brings them closer to our projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u122	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to put her question, No 362, on the reform of apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u123	The draft law on freedom to choose one's professional future includes a reform of learning. If I agree with the need for reform, it seems to me, Mr Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, that the provisions envisaged in this framework are not in the right direction and that they undermine the tools essential for preserving access to learning in all our territories. While the youth unemployment rate is still too high, I fear that these measures will worsen it, particularly in rural areas and areas. I am thinking first of all of calling into question the role of the regions. While the region enjoys a close and trusting relationship with companies that makes it easy to conclude apprenticeship contracts and anticipate the needs of businesses by living pool, the end of the regional pilotage of the training map will necessarily affect low-level training. In Occitanie, 6000 apprentices attend understaffed apprenticeship sections. In my department, Tarn-et-Garonne, there are five apprenticeship training centres – CFA – and about 20 training centres, or 29% of them, as well as more than 140 apprentices, or 13% of them. Such a choice represents a major risk from the point of view of spatial planning, which seems particularly worrying to me: your reform will make its impact felt on the CFAs of rural areas or neighbourhoods, which have nevertheless shown their effectiveness in terms of successful integration into the labour market. Your reform will also strengthen social inequalities: only the most affluent families will send their children to cities and territories where there is sufficient supply. You also plan to finance learning at a uniform contract cost, fixed by the branches, which puts an end to the precise and reactive piloting of learning in the territories. And what about the abolition of the apprenticeship tax exemptions, which will increase the tax burden on smaller businesses, a major source of attractiveness and economic development in our territories? How, then, do you intend to take into account the small-scale territorialized training, which is essential in many departments? Finally, why deprive regions of their skills in this area when, together with companies, they are best placed to revive learning? As you know, Secretary of State, many of them have already achieved good results thanks to a proactive policy – I could once again take the example of my territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u124	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u125	I think we agree, honourable Member, on the ambition, the demand and the effectiveness of learning. But we must also agree when it comes to recognizing the failure of our country to support and implement learning. As we all know, a successful apprentice is seven times more likely than others to find a job seven months after training. Yet, for years, we have not looked at reality: the digital failure of entering this path of excellence. We have twice as many apprentices as Germany, a neighbouring country. Why? You know like me, since we sat together in a previous majority, that for a very long time we have locked ourselves in dogmatic positions that have led us, for example, to oppose the age of entry into learning, not without some cartoons to which I have contributed and which I would not resume today. We never wondered whether the system was working or not. On the basis of this observation, and in order to break with this Malthusian system, the Government is carrying out a Copernician revolution, inspired by what works in our European neighbours: a system where young people and businesses are at the centre of the definition of action and the offer of reception. It is not a question of setting aside a particular one, even though one may wonder about certain regions – I do not mention yours – that receive more from the learning tax than they pay for learning, so that some of the endowments can go to other policies, which is quite surprising given the stakes. So we wanted to change the system. We will have the opportunity, as soon as next week, to get to the heart of the matter, when the text comes into discussion in this House and the minister responsible will be present. In any case, we want to change the pilotage. There is no question of excluding the regions, which will have their full place in the scheme, but of ensuring that the professional branches and their relays, the approved joint bodies, are responsible for the development of apprenticeship. The regions will intervene, in terms of their spatial planning skills and economic skills, which are major and need to be further strengthened. But it is important that there are unique pilotage, and therefore unique responsibilities. The tasks of the State will themselves be redefined, and the existing contractual planning arrangements will focus on the contract for a regional plan for the development of vocational training and guidance, the CPRDFOP, which will ensure the coordination of interventions in the territories, in conjunction with the State and the social partners. We also want to provide more transparency to young people and their families in terms of guidance. CFAs and vocational lycées will have to publish their results in terms of integration into the labour market and completion of the diploma. In addition, we are putting in place actions to prepare for learning in the CFAs. The regions will have a major role to play in the organisation of information activities on trades and training for pupils. While guidance is absolutely essential, there is no better actor to work on these topics than the regions themselves. Finally, the funding system will be thoroughly reviewed. We propose a new single contribution to vocational training and apprenticeship. Its collection will be carried out by a single actor, the USSRAF, instead of the current fifty-seven. We also aim to simplify the procedures for the entrepreneur who will host an apprentice. These are all commitments that will allow us to have a simple, readable and transparent system where the actors are responsible. Since it has been approved in the Committee on Social Affairs, you will have an opportunity to discuss it next week.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u126	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u127	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, although I do not fully agree with your direction. I expected clarification of the future of the CFAs in the context of small-scale territorialized formations. With regard to experiments and proactive policies in certain regions, which have produced results, even if I cannot give you the figures for lack of time, we will be able to debate them in the Chamber. I hope that we can improve the text, particularly on the issue of regional pilotage, which I believe is essential in terms of proximity and spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u128	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor to raise her question, No. 346, concerning the professional reintegration of prisoners in sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u129	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, I would like to associate my colleague from the Hérault, Patricia Mirallès, with this speech. My question relates to the possibility of considering the professional reintegration of prisoners in semi-freedom through graduate training in sport. Today, we find that the prison does not always have the means to play its role of social reintegration, which allows the preparation of the prisoner who has served his or her sentence to integrate again into society, both in his or her personal and professional life. It has been established that the social reintegration of the judiciary is a central element in ensuring a more peaceful and secure society by effectively combating recidivism. In many cases, the release of prisoners is not sufficiently anticipated or prepared, mainly for small offenders, who are led, as a result of this lack of supervision, to return to prison. I would like to address the case of prisoners on day parole, who are at large and return to their detention centres in the evening. Even if, when they are detained, they can work through partnerships with companies, once the sentence has been served, they struggle to find a job and cannot promote their experience, since she is not a graduate or recognized. Mr Secretary of State, an angle of action for prisoners has been too neglected to date: that of reintegration through sport. However, today, some university sports clubs, such as the Toulouse University Club – the TUC – in my constituency, or the Montpellier University Club – the MUC – would like to offer these semi-freedom prisoners short training courses in the field of sport, such as the certificate of fitness for the functions of animators – the BAFA – or the certificate of professional qualification – the CQP. They last less than a year and represent a low cost. These associations are voluntary in order to receive prisoners on day parole and to provide them with a degree. They would like to be a vector of strong social ties. This action would make it possible to make two strikes with one stone: to integrate prisoners and to meet the needs of personnel in the sports sector, an area in tension with more than 4,300 posts to be filled for 2018. The benefits of sport are no longer to be demonstrated: in addition to defusing the body and emptying the mind, it is also a vehicle for cohesion and social integration and allows to learn common rules. The idea would be to allow them to train, to work alternately in sports university clubs during the day before returning to their cells in the evening. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to have your opinion on this mechanism which, if I may, could be tested as an experiment in Toulouse and Montpellier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u130	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u131	Madam Member, you are raising a fundamental issue to which the Minister of Justice and all of us are particularly committed: the reintegration of convicted persons and, more broadly, the meaning and effectiveness of the sentence. The sanction must be examined from several points of view: that of the ability to redress, of the power to prohibit, without wishing to make criminal law, but also of the return to civil life. One of the key levers for the social reintegration of convicted persons is access to employment through a continuum of activities: vocational guidance and training; integration through economic activity; social and vocational integration of the disabled; work in detention; teaching; cultural and sports activities. I have just answered a question about the place of the regions. Some regions had put in place vocational training schemes; Others have decided to remove them, which, in my view, is a mistake, because training is essential. Sports practice takes part in the course of the execution of the sentence, preparation for release from detention and successful reintegration. In 2017, the Prison Administration's management spent almost €2 million on sports activities. Several conventions have been signed with sports federations – basketball, weightlifting, boxing, sport for all or table tennis – as well as with some regional Olympic and sports committees and regional leagues to promote the experiments you mention. At the same time, sporting events are held in prisons or outside. The day-to-day action and involvement of prison staff in the support of prisoners should be welcomed. The guard of seals is particularly attentive to these experiments, as well as to the accompaniment of semi-freedom. It is a useful provision, as it is structuring and resocializing. Sport plays a major role. Semi-freedom retains its full place in the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill that will be introduced in Parliament. I have no doubt that your commitment and knowledge of the ground will not allow you to accompany the Government's deliberations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u132	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u133	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. I would like to point out the commitment of the TUC and the MUC, who have made a good proposal to promote the integration of prisoners. We will have an opportunity to discuss this very soon with the seal keeper.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u134	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to put his question, No. 337, concerning the lack of reception places for children with disabilities in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u135	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, my question relates to the difficulties faced by many families in Seine-Saint-Denis in admitting their children with disabilities to a specialized structure, despite the guidance of the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities – the CDAPH. The departmental house for disabled people in Seine-Saint-Denis – the CDMH 93 – is responsible for opening up rights to persons with disabilities. Each year, it receives 37,000 files, 110,000 applications and makes almost 135,000 decisions. However, the disability is plural, multiple and different. No situation is the same. Nearly 300 children with disabilities are said to be without a solution in Seine-Saint-Denis. Unfortunately, this situation has been going on for several years. If it shows the objective delay of the Seine-Saint-Denis concerning the reception of disabled children, this data masks a more serious reality: that of the distress and difficulties of hundreds of Sequano-dionysian parents. In addition to disability, families find facilities in other departments or in Belgium, which is often the case. Unfortunately, these are not isolated examples. The loneliness of day-to-day management of disability in unsuitable homes and the need for one of the parents to give up his or her professional activity add to the consequences of disability. Can you tell me what measures the Government is considering to catch up with this delay and thus help families in distress?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u136	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u137	Mr President, it is enough to be an elected official to see the age gap in the reception centres for disabled children: since there are no places anywhere, those reserved for children are not freed. I know for having been mayor of a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence with a reception centre. On a trip to Eure-et-Loir a few days ago, I was able to make the same observation. Today, the offer of institutions and services for children with disabilities, in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, consists of 1388 places in medical and educational institutes, 105 places in institutions for children or adolescents with disabilities, 140 places in motor education institutes, 40 places in educational and educational therapeutic institutes and 1056 places in special education and home care services – the SESSADs. These accompanying solutions, financed entirely by health insurance, remain insufficient. This territorial offer will be reinforced by the five-year strategy for the development of the medical and social supply for persons with disabilities for the period 2017-2022, presented by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. It is accompanied by an envelope of €180 million, some of which will be reserved for overseas, whose difficulties, similar to those of the metropolis, are sometimes aggravated by their geographical location. It is a plan for a massive transformation of the medico-social supply, which must organize a rapid and wide shift in favour of specialized support, if necessary, in the ordinary environment. After the law of 11 February 2005, the response in the form of places in an establishment or service, if it may prove relevant, does not in itself allow to take into account all the diversity of people's aspirations. That is why the Minister has asked regional health agencies – the RHAs – to pay particular attention, in conjunction with departmental councils, to the development of responses that are better adapted to the needs of people, in particular by reducing the number of adults kept in institutions for children by 20% per year over the duration of the regional health project. That is a very ambitious objective, in view of the situation you have mentioned, Mr President. With regard to the Seine-Saint-Denis, the €180 million envelope must be part of concrete commitments. The Ile-de-France regional health agency has close to €7 million in commitment authorisations for 2018, which will be used for a territorial rebalancing, plus €7.7 million under the third autism plan, and €3.5 million in the prevention of unwanted departures to Belgium, which are not normal and for which we must quickly find a solution. But the delay is such that it is necessary to take the time of construction; As the implementation of an investment programme is not immediate. These, Mr. Member, are the legitimate and logical commitments of the Government in the face of an unacceptable reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u138	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u139	Thank you, Secretary of State. We will also agree that the school must be more inclusive every day in favour of certain forms of disability, which requires an increase in the number of jobs for accompanying students with disabilities – the AESH – and the sustainability of their status in the 2018 Finance Bill. With regard to specialized establishments, there is a large gap, particularly in my department, between the applications and the number of places proposed. I note with great satisfaction the existence of the five-year plan, which gives rise to strong expectations on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u140	Mrs Cloarec has the floor to raise her question, No 340, concerning the fight against the isolation of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u141	Mr President, my question is to Mrs Agnès Buzyn, Minister for Solidarity and Health. Minister, as life expectancy increases, more and more people find themselves excluded from all their networks of sociability – family, friends, neighbours, co-workers or associative partners. Their contacts with members of these networks are episodic – sometimes in the year or less often – or even non-existent. In 2016, the Fondation de France estimated that between 5 and 6.2 million people were affected. In 2013, almost a quarter of this population was made up of people over seventy-five years of age. The exclusion of sociability networks for seniors is an undeniable factor in the gradual loss of autonomy; loneliness is also a catalyst for all other forms of exclusion. In addition to government initiatives, private actors are mobilizing. This is particularly the case in the fifth riding of Ille-et-Vilaine, where an innovative senior services company was established. It is intended for people who refuse to take part in collective activities and, depending on their interests, proposes to accompany them on various trips and activities. However, the economic model of this service is fragile in terms of the costs associated, in particular, with the large number of trips. I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister, whether it is possible to extend the payment facilities offered by the universal employment service cheque, CESU, which allows for the settlement of home-based services, to recreational services which enable elderly people to leave their homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u142	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u143	Thank you for this question, Mrs Cloarec, which allows me to address the loneliness of the elderly. Many associative initiatives exist to break this isolation, and I, like you, would like to pay tribute to them. Solidarity is the business of all of us; It is a marker of our ability to make society, in particular to build a more inclusive society for the most fragile. I recalled in the road map for the elderly that I presented last week the importance of measures to prevent the loss of autonomy; I am thinking in the first place of the identification of frailties by all those involved at home, but also of the prevention of sensory problems – of sight or hearing – which often accelerate the loss of autonomy and especially the isolation of the elderly. Your question deals more specifically with the support activities of the elderly and the possibility of including them in the CESU scheme. Today, the activity of accompaniment to the displacement of an elderly or disabled person is part of the benefits listed in the Social Action and Family Code as well as in the Labour Code, and can benefit from the pre-funded employment service cheque if the benefit is individual, it is part of a more comprehensive service offer including a home benefit, and the move leaves or arrives at home. These conditions reflect the fact that the CESU was first created to finance home-related services, in order to develop the sector and meet growing needs. It was also a means of fighting hidden work. The only accompaniment to travel, if it is useful for people and relevant to combat their isolation, did not enter at the time into this perimeter. Your question raises the problem of new and expanding services, and the growing interest of service companies in the silver economy. All these topics need to be part of a more comprehensive reflection on the needs and expectations of older people. In order to adapt the arrangements and funding, the consultation that I am launching, and the public debate and citizen consultation that we are starting, should enable everyone to express themselves and change the system on these essential issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u144	Mrs Christine Cloarec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u145	Thank you for your answer. Preventing the loss of autonomy is one of the major topics of the day, and all of our future ageing and dependency policies will be very important to our elderly people. As a reference to the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, CNSA, I will gladly participate in the development of these policies and will certainly contribute to the development of the CESU for the benefit of our seniors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u146	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to raise her question, No. 345, on supplementary health care for pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u147	Since 1 January 2016, the participation of private sector employees in a collective health supplement contracted by the employer has become compulsory. However, when many French people retired, they decided not to join a new complementary system of individual health care. Several reasons seem to govern this choice: on the one hand, the contracts offered to them have a much higher cost than the one which they enjoyed when they were employed; on the other hand, whereas it was possible for them as employees to deduct from their taxable income the amount of their contribution to the collective health supplement contracted by their employer, it is impossible for them, once retired, to deduct from those same income the contributions paid to an individual supplementary health system. For these two main reasons, many pensioners in our country therefore give up health coverage, which, however, is recognized as essential in the advanced age. In view of this fact, more and more municipalities and intercommunities have decided to act. In this way, more and more often and everywhere in our territories, we see the creation of mutual communal or intermediation arrangements aimed at enabling poorly protected publics – of whom some pensioners are part – to have access to health coverage not only of quality but also less expensive because, among other things, negotiated in a collective manner with the operators. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to know whether the Government is considering taking steps to protect our elders. Tax incentives could encourage hesitant pensioners to choose to join an individual complementary health care system; support the movement launched by the municipalities to reduce the cost of access of their inhabitants to these communal or intercommunal mutual arrangements; Or put in place any other action aimed at the same objective of extending health coverage to more of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u148	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Brocard, I thank you for your question and would like to assure you that the Government is well aware of the difficulties that pensioners can face in accessing affordable health care. For the most modest pensioners, the aid for the payment of a health supplement now makes it possible to receive aid for financing on selected contracts. This support is important because it allows for the increase in premiums with age to be taken into account. In addition, for former employees in the private sector, the Decree of 21 March 2017 on the application of Article 4 of the Act of 31 December 1989, which strengthens the guarantees offered to insured persons against certain risks, made it possible to smooth, over the first three years after the end of employment in the undertaking, the tariff increase incurred by insured persons at the time of their retirement. For retirees in the public service, referencing, agreement-making or labelling arrangements take into account the criteria of solidarity towards older people, including transfers between generations, thus ensuring genuine mutualisation. A tax deduction scheme, as you propose, would not, however, effectively target the most modest elderly people, as they are generally not taxable. Be assured that the Government pays particular attention to the access of the most modest elderly to complementary health care. The communal mutuals established by certain communes, to which you refer, also facilitate this access for the population within their jurisdiction. Nevertheless, beyond these initiatives, it is a comprehensive action that is necessary to promote access to care for all French people. The Government therefore favours a comprehensive approach to the cost of care and care by health-care providers, in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic to allow access to dental care, hearing aid and optics with a zero-charged remainder. Older people are particularly affected by this measure, in particular – but not only – with regard to hearing aids. This determined action will ensure better access to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u150	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u151	Minister, I know what you are doing to promote access to care for the general public, and I know you are very sensitive to everything that concerns our seniors. However, I would like to add that this would be a strong signal: our pensioners, for some of them, currently feel as if they are the only ones who are demanding efforts. I have often been asked about this problem; That's why I took the liberty of bringing him back to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u152	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor to put his question, No. 348, on the SMUR de Bourges and on emergency doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u153	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health to address the serious crisis facing the mobile emergency and resuscitation service, SMUR, of Bourges. Madam Minister, the process of medical desertification which was already very hard on the Cher department reached a new level last May since on several occasions the SMUR of Bourges was unable to form its crews and had to close due to a lack of emergency doctors. Disqualifications by interim doctors, who sometimes resent accepting the compensation caps introduced by the November 2017 decree, have further aggravated an already complicated situation, characterized by the presence of only eight permanent full-time equivalents for a theoretical workforce of twenty-five. The SMUR de Bourges closed, it is the SMURs of the sub-prefectures of Vierzon and Saint-Amand, based more than thirty kilometers away and which already cover very important areas of intervention, which must further widen their scope of action. This is obviously not without consequences for all the inhabitants of the department: longer response times, increased waiting times in emergency services, accumulation of stress and fatigue for the teams over-solicited... The loss of opportunity for patients, due to the length of time taken to take care of them, or even the lack of availability of medical emergency relief, cannot be ignored either. Needless to mention, this situation does not help to strengthen the attractiveness of the territory and the quality of care, and it is therefore inconceivable to allow it to continue at the dawn of the summer season, marked by a structural revival of difficulties in emergencies. Beyond the closure of the SMUR de Bourges, the problems of recruiting doctors, and in particular emergency workers, are real throughout the region. Since the creation of the diploma of complementary specialized studies, DESC, emergency medicine, too few students make the choice of this field and then work as emergency specialists. Moreover, we must not forget to emphasize the lack of interns in medicine in the department and in the region Centre-Val de Loire. The causes of the shortage of doctors therefore seem structural and the case of SMUR de Bourges is only one of the visible manifestations of a deeper crisis. It is therefore necessary to act quickly so as not to allow this harmful situation to develop. That is why I would like to know what the Government and the State services can do to resolve the crisis in the SMUR of Bourges and to enable the people of the Cher, as well as all those who have chosen to live in rural areas and in medium-sized towns, to continue to benefit from an emergency service that works in good conditions, without endangering their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u154	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u155	Mr Kervran, before I answer your question, I would like to point out that the strategy of transforming the health system, which we have launched with the Prime Minister and which must lead, on the horizon of this summer, to a change in the organisation of care – the President of the Republic will then set the course – should largely address your general concerns about the provision of care. I will therefore confine myself to your question about the emergency in Bourges. The difficulties encountered by the SMUR of the hospital in Bourges, which you describe, are indeed worrying; They weaken the system of care and emergency. The services of the State and the regional health agency, ARS, Centre-Val de Loire are very attentive to the evolution of the situation, and their links have been constant during the various episodes of tension observed since last May. Many means have been mobilised, in particular to find reinforcements within the hospital group of the territories, GHT, with the help of private structures, the military health service and, as a last resort, via the health reserve. The hospital in Bourges also continues to seek, in a very active way, emergency workers who would like to be recruited on a permanent basis. The difficulties in the organization and anticipation of the watchboards have been accentuated by the fact that, as you indicate, several health facilities, including the one in Bourges, have tense or even conflicting relationships with acting societies. More structurally, the episodes of tension in the emergency services make it necessary the profound changes that I was talking about, and in particular, upstream, the reform of the permanence of care in the city. A decree was issued on Friday to introduce more flexibility and give institutions and THGs the opportunity to better adapt the medical resource to the flow of activity. The text thus introduces, under certain conditions, the possibility of resorting to a medical penalty in case of low activity of the emergency structure and the SMUR. Beyond the emergency situation, I know the particularly worrying situation of the Cher and more generally of the region Centre-Val de Loire in terms of medical demography. We have already taken steps for your region, so that it is at the level, in particular through a more favourable zoning for the installation of general practitioners or in terms of numerus clausus. Finally, I know that the professionals of first resort are actively working on the creation on Bourges of a territorial health professional community, one of the objectives of which is a better organization in daytime of unscheduled care, a project that can alleviate the pressure on the emergency department. Be sure, honourable Member, that I will ensure that the actors are mobilized to provide the people of the Cher department with access to effective, sustainable and secure care, whether for city medicine or for the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u156	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u157	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed response. I commend the recent efforts of the Government and all State agencies to remedy this situation. We appreciated the exceptional mobilization of the health reserve and the emergency preparedness and response facility – EPRUS. However, we remain concerned about this development. We know this: after the closure of the secondary SMUR, then that of the primary SMUR, the emergency reception service itself is threatened. We will remain engaged with you to find all possible solutions to this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u158	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor to put her question, No. 335, on the health system in Martinique.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u159	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, in a few days you will receive a delegation of hospital staff from Martinique. Similarly, the administrator appointed at the head of the structure must report to you on the situation of the university hospital centre – CHU – in Martinique. It is catastrophic, and staff are worried, despite the support of the state and your ministry. What are the objectives you have set? What is the financial support you are considering in terms of both cash and investment in terms of local epidemiology, institutional debt and regional and Caribbean dynamics that require its support? In short, how can you ensure in good conditions the sustainable hospital reorganization of Martinique, within the framework of the West Indies plan, to regain a quality of care indispensable? And it is this last point that worries me the most, Madam Minister. Today, hospital providers no longer make available the necessary equipment, and emergency operations are often cancelled due to a lack of medical equipment. There are therefore lasting questions about the future of health in Martinique, but especially about the present working conditions of staff on a daily basis, as well as about the quality and dignity of access to care to which patients must be entitled in the immediate future. How can you respond to these two challenges?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u160	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u161	Madam Member, thank you for your question, which highlights Martinique's offer of care. Like you, I am very committed to ensuring that all citizens, wherever they live in the territory, especially in the overseas departments, receive quality care. It is a subject that I am personally with great attention. Today, the situation of the CHU of Fort-de-France is particularly sensitive. It justifies exceptional monitoring and support of the institution. In 2017, the structure had a deficit of 26.7 million euros, 12.8 million more than in 2016, despite a very substantial level of cash support by the State, to the tune of 104 million euros, in the framework of the Interministerial Committee on the Performance and Modernisation of the Care Supply – COPERMO – and of the supplementary aid, paid at the end of the year to avoid the supply disruptions that you just mentioned. However, this financial support is limited since, despite the non-standard means granted each year to this institution, the situation remains deteriorated: it paid its suppliers to 340 days at the end of 2017, obviously far too long. On the other hand, the financial situation of Martinique's CHU does not allow him to identify the ability to invest, and these difficulties obviate the daily functioning of the services. More than a lack of resources, the institution suffered from a management deficit which justified that at the end of 2017 I made the decision to put it under provisional administration. The team's arrival in January 2018 allowed us to control the slippage of spending, and to engage in reflections on deeply structuring actions essential to the recovery. This must be continued, so that the provision of care can be adapted to the needs of the Martinique. This is all at stake in the deployment of the West Indies plan, which includes the National Performance Support Agency – ANAP – and the UNIHA Group Procurement Network. The aim of these accompaniments is to support the institution in this approach, which must incorporate both an organisational axis and a qualitative axis. The procurement process must be streamlined so that the institution is no longer faced with supply disruptions. Finally, the structure of supply must be better adapted to meet the changing health needs of the population. The reforms that I intend to carry out are aimed at substantially changing the provision of care in all territories, particularly in the overseas departments, so as to be as close as possible to the needs of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u162	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor to put his question, No. 363, on the situation of the Corsican language and bilingual schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u163	Every day about twenty people from mainland France and all walks of life settle in Corsica. Corsica has always made Corsicans and, more than ever, needs its strong language to integrate the new populations that join it. To do this, it is necessary to encourage immersion in the Corsican language from an early age and to develop the network of bilingual classes. You know this: by its proximity to the Romanesque languages, Corsican language promotes, especially among children, the taste of learning and an intellectual proximity to Spanish and Italian, two strong cultural and economic partners of France. On 2 November 2016, the State and the Community of Corsica signed an ambitious plan for the development of the Corsican language for 2016-2021. Article 11 provides for the establishment of a territorial academic council – CAT – which is responsible for the joint and regular monitoring of the implementation of the plan. In this context, the WCB is responsible for drafting the terms of reference for bilingual education, identifying monitoring tools, developing qualitative and quantitative indicators, and preparing an annual status report. However, not only has this CAT never been brought together to date, but it has not even been mentioned by academic bodies. I therefore ask you, Mr Minister, whether the state is prepared to honour its signature, by acting as soon as possible on the establishment of the Territorial Academic Council, and I would like to know the timetable for this implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u164	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u165	Mr President, we are particularly committed to the preservation and transmission of the various forms of the linguistic and cultural heritage of France, and of Corsica in particular, which is the subject of the greatest attention. First of all, I would like to reassure you of the commitment of the school institution to the teaching of the Corsican language and culture, as reflected in the convention on the plan for the development of the teaching of the Corsican language signed on 2 November 2016 between the territorial community of Corsica, the prefect and the rector. In fact, the Academy of Corsica has already made very important efforts to develop the teaching of Corsican in recent years, and even more so since the signing of this convention, from the small classes. At primary school, almost all pupils are taught the Corsican language and, among them, more than 10,000 in the form of bilingual education, an increase in bilingual enrolment by more than 25 per cent in five years. The rate of primary schools offering bilingual education is growing steadily: it is now 55 per cent, and more than a third of the teachers in the schools of the Academy are entitled to teach Corsican and Corsican. The effort to develop bilingual classes in primary education requires, in order to be continued and amplified, more teachers from competent schools, able to provide quality language education. The Academy therefore implements a proactive training policy as part of the major training plan in Corsican language launched in 2016. It is the continuing training of teachers in schools that is preferred. The allocation of funds under the State-region plan contract allows 20 replacements to be paid over the period 2015-2020. The Corsican community, for its part, supports the organisation of these internships through the provision of operating costs: travel, meals and accommodation. This major training plan covers all categories of teachers in schools, from non-corsophones to bilinguals to be further developed. The priority displayed, however, is the generalization of bilingualism with the training in bilingual teaching of teachers already familiar with the language. Concerning the establishment of the Territorial Monitoring Committee for the Corsican Language provided for in Article 11 of the Convention of November 2016, I inform you that a first preparatory meeting was held in July 2017 between the two parties. The context of the elections at the end of the calendar year, followed by discussions between the new executive of the territorial community and the State, has led to a temporary postponement of the work, but it is expected that it will resume very soon. As you can see, honourable Member, it is a particularly proactive policy that we are leading in favour of learning the Corsican language, in connection with the territorial community and in compliance with the commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u166	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u167	Minister, thank you for your answer. We hope that the CTU will be able to carry out the tasks assigned to it. Language is one of the major challenges facing Corsica today, with the fight against speculation and economic development. You know better than I do: a language is not necessary. It is a means of communication that must be natural. The Corsican language is unfortunately disappearing, due to the combined game of cultural erosion, the media and the extent of migration in Corsica. But this language is our soul. She's part of our life. She has forged the relationships we have had with all of us. In any case, it is our very small contribution to the heritage of humanity, and we are committed to it above all. We want it to be a means not of segregation but of integration, as it has been for centuries. You know how much we care about this common sense of belonging, experienced by people from all walks of life in Corsica. We want to give this language a future, by acting without constraint, naturally, through transmission from an early age. That is the subject of my intervention. Mr Minister, we ask the State to participate as well as possible in this safeguard which is indispensable to Corsica, of course, but also to France and humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u168	Mr Philippe Chassating, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 339, concerning the teaching of economic and social sciences.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u169	Mr Minister of National Education, I would like to draw your attention to the teaching of the economic and social sciences, and more specifically to the place which will be reserved for this subject in the reform of the high school which you intend to carry out. The economic and social sciences, introduced fifty years ago in high school, allowed the entry of a third culture alongside humanity and science. They have thus contributed to the enrichment of the intellectual and civic training of the students. Over the past 50 years, this discipline has played its full part in participating in the democratization of education, welcoming one third of the bachelor's degrees, promoting social mix in its recruitment and offering various opportunities to students. Every day, the news reminds us of the need to have analytical tools offered by the economy, sociology or political sciences in order to better understand the contemporary democratic issues of our world: economic growth, social mobility, the challenges of globalisation and European integration. Therefore, in view of the reform that you want to carry out, would it not be necessary to integrate this subject into the common core of a second in order to allow a better orientation of the students? Moreover, do you not consider that this teaching, because it allows everyone to question the economic and social stakes of our world, constitutes a necessary passage for each student during his or her schooling?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u170	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u171	The Ministry of National Education obviously attaches great importance to the preservation and consolidation of economic and social science education as part of the new reform of the baccalaureate and high school. A number of new measures are contributing to this objective. In the general and technological second class, this teaching is already introduced into the common core of teachings, at a rate of one hour and thirty per week. This measure is a step forward in relation to the current situation, since it will allow all students to benefit from the second class of this education from the start of the 2019 school year, whereas it was only followed in 2016 by 85% of them. In the first and final grades, the economic and social sciences can be chosen by the students as a four-hour, first- and six-hour specialty education in the final grades. This choice can be supplemented according to the profile and projects of the student with other teachings. For example, it should be noted that "history-geography, geopolitics and political science" can be included in this category. Similarly, the optional teachings "in-depth mathematics" or "right and great issues of the contemporary world", lasting three hours weekly each, in terminal class, obviously have an impact on this issue of understanding the world to which you referred. Teachers of economic and social sciences will be involved in all these teachings, with the exception of mathematics. But mathematics, in their new configuration, will be very useful, in addition to the economic and social sciences. Thus, a student choosing, for example, to follow the special education in SES and the option of law and major issues of the contemporary world will be able to follow thirteen hours of courses in the field of law and economics over the entire terminal cycle, compared to eleven and a half hours at most today. Finally, it should be added that these changes in the structure of the lessons will also be accompanied by a renovation of the content of the programmes, for which the Higher Council of Programmes delivered its first recommendations in early May. In view of the developments described above, the economic and social sciences will be upgraded and strengthened by the new reform of the baccalaureate and high school. We also go beyond a divide that some sometimes establish between economy and society. We need to understand and the economy and society, society through the economy and the economy through society. There is nothing to oppose in this regard. On the contrary, there are only complements to be provided, in a scientific approach, objectivating and enabling citizens to be trained for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u172	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u173	Thank you for your answer. My question was essentially about the second. So far, only 86% of students were involved in this subject, which meant that some of them could make default choices by never having had contact with the knowledge of economics. I think that's a step forward. It is regrettable that the hourly volume is one and a half hours, not two hours. Nevertheless, I welcome the introduction of this subject from the common core for a better training of all our students.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u174	I greet our young audience. Minister of National Education, you will be pleased to see that schools are now widely present in the fora. Mr Loïc Dombreval has the floor to put his question, No 343, on information and guidance centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u175	Minister of National Education, my question concerns the transfer of information and guidance centres – IOC – to the regions. In particular, the draft law on vocational training and apprenticeship provides for the transfer of guidance-related information to the regions and the transfer of the regional directorates of ONISEP – National Information Office on Education and Occupations. As part of this transfer, the closure of the information and guidance centres would also be foreseen. The department of which I am elected, the Alpes-Maritimes, has five IOCs. As information for school audiences becomes a competence of the region, the question arises of equal access to information throughout the national territory. In the context of this transfer to the region, can the Government give assurances as to the maintenance of a minimum territorial network within each department, including that of the Alpes-Maritimes, regarding information on the orientation of young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u176	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u177	I also greet our young audience. I'm always happy to talk about national education in front of the students. Member, the bill on freedom to choose one's professional future, to which you referred, does not directly concern information and guidance centres; Article 10 does not imply the closure of these services. We are at the beginning of the discussions. On the other hand, in the face of a recurring finding of an orientation that does not work as desired, the Government wants to transform the orientation, so that each student succeeds and fits into the professional world and society. You will grant me that we have room for progress in this area. This requires addressing the specific needs of students throughout their schooling. My reasoning comes from the student, to know what information about the orientation reaches him in an effective and egalitarian way. This new approach to guidance requires a new division of competences between the state and the regions for better guidance education from college onwards. Tomorrow, the regions, which are in contact with the economic fabric and opportunities for the future, will have a clear responsibility for information on trades and training. Schools will be the place of the process of orientation as close as possible to the aspirations and needs of the pupils to advise them, to accompany them in the construction of their orientation project and to formulate their training choices. The State will naturally retain the role of assigning pupils. In this context, the aim is for the State to concentrate its efforts in schools to strengthen the outreach of pupils by educational teams, and to achieve a more effective territorial network. This is why teachers and psychologists in national education are expected to see their role in providing guidance strengthened. In addition to the law-making process, an evolution of the IOC's territorial network is envisaged. A reflection is under way on the evolution of the IOC map, which will be carried out with the regions, the local authorities. It will be deeply pragmatic. It will be carried out with the support of national education inspections. It will take into account the needs of different audiences, including non-school audiences hosted by the IOC. Our goal is that the evolution of the IOC will allow for close proximity to the students. As far as your department, the Alpes-Maritimes, is concerned, following the financial disengagement of the departmental council, the state has taken over two of the three IOCs that were previously funded by the territorial community, which, as you have pointed out, brings the total number of IOCs to five. This example, which concerns you directly, demonstrates the Government's willingness to maintain a balanced territorial network, responding to educational challenges and taking into account the local context in order to ensure a high-quality public service. If we were to position these IOCs in institutions, it would not be a loss of territorial mesh, but rather the result of a reflection on a more egalitarian, fairer mesh in your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u178	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to raise her question, No. 347, concerning Wednesday's plan and extracurricular activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u179	Minister of National Education, I would like to draw your attention to the expectation of the "Wednesday Plan". In a decree issued almost a year ago, the Government authorized the municipalities to adapt the organization of the school week, allowing the return to the week of four days. At the 100th Congress of the Mayors of France, held last November, you announced the creation of this famous financing plan, known as "plan on Wednesday". Its objective is to give the municipalities who wish to return to the four-day week the means to ensure the activities and the reception of children. Several months after this announcement, and as the September 2018 start-up progresses, the municipalities and EPCI are waiting for details on the measures of this plan. Minister, your announcement has raised great expectations. This is the case, for example, in my territory. The municipality of Bellerive-sur-Allier, which has two primary schools and two nursery schools, has made the choice of returning to the four-day week. Due to the timing, that is, given the need to vote in due time in the municipal council future rates, and for the good information of parents before the summer holidays, the municipality has already organized itself. The projections it has drawn up, without the possible financial support of the plan on Wednesday, to create its leisure accommodation structure without accommodation, show that it is more financially advantageous for it not to enter into an agreement with the National Fund of Family Allowances – CNAF. However, according to some recent statements, funding for the plan on Wednesday seems to be conditional on an agreement with the CNAF. Therefore, Minister, I would have liked to know the intentions of the Government regarding the modalities of the plan on Wednesday in terms of human and financial resources. For example, is the agreement of the municipalities with the CNAF a sine qua non for obtaining funding from the plan on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u180	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u181	Madam Member, the decision to give local players some freedom in terms of school rhythms at primary school has resulted in a consequent return to the four-day week by a number of municipalities. This has the effect of the Wednesday shift in the extracurricular perimeter. This day now offers a long time during which, in connection with the territories, more extracurricular activities can be organized offering a strong educational added value, consistent with school and family times. At the same time, a number of communities, regardless of their organisation of four-day or four-and-a-half-day school time, wish to retain their territorial educational project – PedT – which has produced interesting effects on the territories, particularly in terms of educational complementarity. Sometimes, these PEDTs were purely formal. We wanted, through the plan on Wednesday, that we prepare, to move on to something more substantial. This contractual framework may indeed be relevant if it is led, at the initiative of the mayor or the President of the EPCI, in a spirit of consultation with all the educational actors of the territory and with the cooperation of the State services. That is why I hope that, through the plan on Wednesday, we will give an ambition to these projects on the basis of the existing ones and taking into account the state of progress of the territories in terms of educational policy. In the search for the best level of safety, and in the service of the quality of the extracurricular activities proposed, the communities are already encouraged to organize their Wednesday receptions under the regime of collective receptions of minors, as you explained in your example. In order to support the communities in setting up a collective reception of minors on Wednesday and in a deeply renewed contractual approach, the regulation could be relaxed with regard to supervisory rates. In addition, Wednesday's receptions will be eligible for financial support from the CNAF as part of the 2018-2022 Management and Objectives Agreement, which is currently under discussion. To answer your question more precisely, I will be able to announce the plan on Wednesday in a few days. It will provide additional funding, to a extent that I will specify at a later stage. But the plan on Wednesday is not limited to the financial support of the state, in connection with the CNAF. It is also a state of mind, the pooling of resources, a greater visibility vis-à-vis families on what is offered on Wednesday, an increased mobilization, as your example shows, as well as a capacity to re-establish the links between national education and extracurricular actors, who had dissipated somewhat through the previous reform. What we want today is a joint, contractual involvement between national education and local authorities, also involving other ministries, such as the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Sport. That is why the announcement that I will make over the next few days will, I think, meet the expectations that you have expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u182	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to put her question, No. 361, on school attendance at three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u183	Minister, you have decided to make the education of children compulsory from the age of three, starting in 2019. This measure recognizes the role of kindergarten in the acquisition of language and the development of the child. These years before six years are decisive for learning and the fight against inequalities, especially language. I therefore fully endorse this measure. Beyond that, I remain convinced that schooling from the age of two, with facilities, is an asset for children. We'll have to think about it. However, we must be vigilant on several points. In fact, the premises of some municipalities are not suitable for the reception of additional staff; new equipment will have to be acquired – I am thinking in particular of beds for afternoon naps – and recruitment of staff will sometimes have to be carried out. Some municipalities, which already bear heavy burdens, will not be able to finance them. Finally, I wonder about the impact of this measure on the financing of private nursery schools under an association contract. Article 4 of Act No. 59-1557 of 31 December 1959 on relations between the State and private educational institutions provides that "The operating costs of the classes under contract shall be borne under the same conditions as those of the corresponding classes of public education". Will the municipalities have to pay the flat rate indexed to the expenditure for the public school if the private schools so request? Will the principle of parity lead to a new allocation of the operating costs of nursery schools under an association contract? Your first statements seem to exclude it, but mayors must be reassured quickly on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u184	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u185	Ms.Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, President of the Republic, on the occasion of the foundation of kindergarten, announced the lowering of the age of compulsory education to three years from the beginning of 2019. Thank you for highlighting the virtues of this choice. This decision, which enshrines the place of kindergarten in the French education system, has a threefold scope. It has a historical significance, because the lowering of the age of compulsory education has been unprecedented since 1882. This decision affirms the fundamental nature of schooling before the age of six and recognizes the importance of the missions carried out by staff, teachers of schools and specialized territorial agents of nursery schools – ATSEM – who welcome children to kindergarten. Many countries around the world are looking at this decision, which is part of the current international reflection on this decisive development of kindergarten. It has a social significance, because scientific studies show that early cognitive stimulation, between the ages of zero and five, promotes academic success, educational attainment and integration. The Government's will is therefore to act as soon as possible, with constant attention to the most fragile students in the most fragile territories. After the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1 in priority education, this decision reflects the desire of the President of the Republic and the Government to make the school the place of real equality, that which fights against social determinism, by ensuring everyone the mastery of the basic knowledge: reading, writing, counting, respecting others. It also has an educational scope, because lowering the age of compulsory education is an opportunity to affirm the specific identity of kindergarten. A true school, it must be more oriented towards the acquisition of language and the development of the child. With regard to the financial consequences, the national education services are working closely with the Directorate-General for Local Government on the practical implementation of the three-year reduction in compulsory education, both for municipalities and for national education services. A broad consultation work is about to begin with all associations representing elected representatives. Several parameters need to be taken into account, including territorial disparities. The three-year school enrolment rate is very different in different geographical areas, and sometimes within the same department, and the share of first-level public and private education also varies considerably between regions. Demography will also be taken into account, as the continuing decline in the number of students in the first degree, confirmed by INSEE for the next few years, gives communities and the state room for manoeuvre to take over. Finally, we will also have to take into account the legal and financial consequences. The bill lowering the age of compulsory education will be introduced in early 2019. All impacts, both legal and financial, will be assessed in the context of this text, which will be based on the double imperative of compliance with article 72-2 of the Constitution – which is likely to reassure the communities – and the interest of the students, which requires the very existence of this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u186	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u187	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very sensitive to your willingness to take action to ensure that kindergarten is considered to be in its right place and to its right extent, particularly in view of the social role that schooling of children aged two or three can have. Your answer may reassure the mayors, but we will patiently wait for January 2019 and the bill that you will propose to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u188	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, speaking on question No. 358 by Mrs Marietta Karamanli, concerning the situation of accompanying students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u189	Minister of National Education, I will address the issue of accompanying children with disabilities in inclusive schools – and I know you share our concern. The accompanying students have two different statutes, that of school life assistants – AVS – and that of accompanying students with disabilities – AESH. They have become indispensable staff in schools, and their absence rightly worries the parents, but also the teachers, who come to talk to the MPs about it. Unlike the long-term function of AESH, the status of AVS, in assisted contracts, does not give rise to vocations, because it is precarious, unprofessionalized and paid below what we consider, undoubtedly together, as the poverty line. Normally, all current VSAs should be called upon to become AESHs. If the needs of the aid or accompaniment of the vast majority of children had been taken into account in the 2017 school year, between 3000 and 4000 disabled pupils have returned without this healthy accompaniment, and I wish your intervention on this subject. I have been asked by families in my territory, and I fear that I will not be able to provide them with the comforting answers they expect from the Republic. When an AVS resigns, it is no longer replaced by an aided contract, or it is difficult. What is the number of children who do not have one or more accompanying children in France? What measures are being taken and envisaged to better define the status and occupation of AESH? It seems to me that the promotion of the evolution of a trade and a sector shows the interest that is being carried on and arouses vocations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u190	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u191	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, thank you for this extremely important issue, which is one of our top priorities. As you have said, human assistance staff working with students with disabilities are responsible for promoting their autonomy. Two categories of personnel fulfil this mission: AESH, staff under public law contracts, recruited on the basis of professional qualification criteria, and staff engaged by assisted contract, who have a contract of private law, governed by the Labour Code, and who are, as you said, more precarious than the previous ones. To ensure the best possible support for students with disabilities, article L. 917-1 of the Education Code created the status of AESH. These are professionals with recognized skills, who hold the State Diploma of Educational and Social Accompaniment – DEAES. The Ministry of National Education makes significant efforts each year to create more jobs in this category, in order to generalize the use of AESH's contracts and thus provide a stable status for the human aid function. In order to sustain these jobs, a share of the aided contracts was also converted into AESH in the fall of 2017. In addition, a draft amendment to the decree dated 27 June 2014 will reduce the period of experience required under the contract to nine months, which will be assisted in order to be subsequently recruited as AESH. In 2018, the transformation of 11,200 assisted contracts into 6400 AESH jobs is planned, as well as the direct creation of an additional 4,500 AESH jobs, i.e. 10,900 new AESH jobs. For example, more than 61400 full-time equivalents are mobilised to support students with disabilities, an increase of about 8000 jobs compared to the 2016 school year. Let me remind you that we also mobilized 8,000 additional jobs in the fall of 2017. In addition, in order to ensure a solid training base and to harmonise academic practices, the minimum duration of training for adaptation to employment during recruitment will be increased to 60 hours. In a department such as the Sarthe, 1495 students receive a notification of human aid. Currently, following late notifications in the course of the year, the recruitment pool has not been able to respond to the notifications for 79 students. Recruitment services are currently fully mobilized to conduct recruitment as soon as possible. Faced with these difficulties, a recruitment campaign at the national level has just been launched, the title of which is "Becoming accompanied by students with disabilities". A specific page on the Ministry's website is dedicated to it and provides an interactive map of the recruitment services of the academies throughout the territory. The Ministry of National Education is fully engaged in the upgrading of the profession of human aid and the sustainability of the function of AESH – I met with them last week during my two-day visit to Normandy, and I can only share some of your comments, Madam Member. As part of their commitment to make disability a quinquennium priority and to allow the school of the Republic to be fully inclusive, the Ministry of National Education and the State Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities are currently conducting a major renovation of the support of pupils with disabilities. France can be considered to be making significant efforts for the 300,000 students with disabilities, such as the 800,000 materials intended for adults to help them in their schooling. We can see that other countries do better than we do qualitatively with comparable means. This refers to the question of the status of staff, and it seems to me that we are moving in the right direction, even if we would like to speed up the pace. It also refers to the training of these personnel and to the training of our teachers. Finally, this refers to the management of these issues as close as possible to the institution, and there will be developments in our action, so that our qualitative results reach our quantitative capacities. I join you in the need to make the progress you have called for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u192	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u193	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I stress the importance of the stability and readability of this policy. These agents are absolutely essential for children, but they are also essential for the teaching community. Indeed, the absence of an AESH can disrupt or even upset a class. I thank you for the efforts that will be made in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u194	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-05-O1253.u195	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
