ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u1	The President of the National Assembly received yesterday a communication from the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, informing him that, on 25 March 2018, he was re-elected deputies of the first Mayotte riding, Mrs Ramlati Ali, and of the fourth Loiret riding, Mr Jean-Pierre Door.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u2	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u3	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor to put her question, No 223, concerning the provision of care to Toulon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u4	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to draw your attention to the worrying situation in the emergency department of the intercommunal hospital in Toulon - La Seyne-sur-Mer. The organisation of this service, in particular the dimensioning of the premises and the availability of follow-up and rehabilitation care, together with the provision of hospital care in the region and of city medicine, has adverse consequences for patients and hospital staff, which prompted the deposit, on Thursday 22 February, of an unlimited notice of strike for all the staff of the hospital centre. The situation of CHITS, particularly affected by the ageing of the population, together with an expansionist demography, must encourage the public authorities to think about a better organisation of care, in particular a more rational articulation between city medicine – which could be the subject of a watchdog picture – and at the hospital, whose emergencies drain 65% of hospitalizations, when some of the care should be taken care of otherwise. What measures does the Government intend to take to better structure and coordinate the provision of hospital and liberal care, particularly in the metropolitan area of Toulon?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u5	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u6	Madam Member, like many hospitals in France, the emergency department of the intercommunal hospital in Toulon - La Seyne-sur-Mer has been in overwork for several months. This is in line with a national trend that is due to seasonal phenomena – particularly the severe influenza, whose epidemic lasts for a long time this year – and to a decline in the demographics of city medicine, but also to a societal evolution that sees many citizens favour the use of hospital emergency services to benefit from comprehensive care. It is estimated that about 20 per cent of the transitions to emergency care could be avoided by a comprehensive restructuring of the health care system. In view of this, we must provide suitable and lasting solutions that are not short-term. This is the whole stake of the construction project undertaken by my ministry through the strategy of transformation of the health system. At the local level, the CHITS management, with the support of the regional health agency, has already provided concrete answers: six job creations have been proposed, respecting the control of the wage bill, to strengthen the stretcher and the function of guidance and reception nurse. Important work will be completed by the end of the year to improve patient reception areas and staff working conditions. The preparatory work has been carried out in close consultation with all stakeholders for several months. A specific organisation dedicated to bed management – known as bed management – in support of the needs of the emergency department has been in place and functioning for several years. It provides daily support to the emergency responders, under the authority of a senior executive. In accordance with the request of the Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee, an independent expertise on the situation of the emergency department at Sainte Musse Hospital will be launched in the coming days. This approach, entrusted to a recognized firm, will, where appropriate, complement the measures already proposed. Madam Member, I hope I have answered your question and raised your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u7	Mr Dino Cinieri, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 202, concerning the situation of EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u8	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, together with my alternate, Sylvie Bonnet, we would like to draw your attention to the dramatic situation in residential institutions for the dependent elderly. Indeed, the increase in the level of dependency of residents in EHPAD increases the workload of caregivers. The understaffing weighs heavily on working conditions and the sharp decline in aided contracts, voted by your majority during the review of the 2018 finance bill, will contribute to further weakening a large number of institutions. While, in the face of an ageing population, Germans have an average of 1.2 agents per resident, France has barely 0.6 agents per resident. The professionals – including the members of the management bodies, which is a first – mobilized massively on January 30th, and again on March 15th, to explain their suffering and that of the residents, because these professions are difficult. The deterioration of working conditions in the EHPADs is exhausting the staff, who suffer a real suffering at work, resulting in a rate of absenteeism well above the national average. Despite the dedication of our staff, the care of our dependent seniors is severely degraded. In addition, ternary pricing is a source of complexity for all players in the sector, and public institutions will have to compensate for the loss of resources in the expenditure section through health insurance credits, whereas these appropriations were intended to create posts. On the other hand, families are greatly concerned about rumours of increases in daily rates, which already represent an expenditure of more than 1,800 euros per month, 500 euros more than the average pension. Minister, how do you respond to the concerns of staff and families of EHPAD residents? Do you intend to undertake an urgent funding reform in order to maintain a public service for the reception of elderly people worthy of a great democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u9	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u10	Mr Cinieri, let me begin by reminding you that the overall budget voted in law for the financing of social security is up by 3.6% for the medical and social ONDAM. I cannot let you say that this budget is falling as we accompany the reform of the EHPAD pricing by more than EUR 100 million today, voted in the Social Security Financing Act. You've been asking me about something that's been one of my priorities since I got here. We face a real societal challenge: the aging of the population and the worsening level of dependency of our seniors. We must, in fact, fundamentally change the EHPAD model by making the most of what is already being done in the territories, but also at the international level. I also believe that the increase in the number of temporary accommodation places is necessary. We have voted on a number of them this year, but we need to make better use of them financially. One of my priorities will also be to value the people who work with the elderly by directing in particular the new job-path contracts skills towards EHPADs. Finally, we will work on the issue of social assistance for housing by reflecting on the overall management of this policy, in close connection with the departments, since it is not only dependent on the state – it is also one of the difficulties that arise today. With regard to the rate of supervision and the objective of a caregiver's ratio for a resident, it should be borne in mind that it has no theoretical or scientific basis and cannot be regarded as a norm. It is not widespread at European level, contrary to what is sometimes said. It makes no sense if it is disconnected from any connection with the degree of dependency of people. For example, in some units where people are highly dependent, there are already cases where one for one is located, particularly for the management of Alzheimer's disease. We must, as far as possible, improve the level of supervision, in particular for the care of dependency and care. This is what the Government is already doing, by allocating a specific envelope to recruit nurses and caregivers, including night nurses, for EHPADs, this year. We must therefore work together on ways and means of advancing the human environment with dependent people, in order to make this framework as effective as possible. This is the road map that the Government is developing today to better support the ageing of our population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u11	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u12	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. Of course, the budget has been increased by 3.6%, but it is very inadequate in relation to the needs of EHPADs, particularly those of their staff, who are in arrears.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u13	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to put her question, No 208, on the overexposure of young children on screens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u14	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, Emmanuel Macron's presidential programme had specifically mentioned the subject of prevention in the field of health, since it read that the expenditure of our health system was "focusing on curative care", while it was essential to invest in preventive care and to lead a "revolutionary of prevention". It is in this spirit that I would like to address the issue of overexposure to the screens of young children. If the generalization of digital access is a useful technological advance that we do not question, its use may be problematic. The multiplication of screens and their intensive use would have consequences for the development of the young child: language retardation, disorders of interactions, problems of attention, learning disorders, hyperactivity, de-schooling, problems of sleep, eating, behaviour, according to a study by the American Academy of Paediatrics. The abuse of tablets and smartphones would thus delay the normal development of a child, who is expected to develop his/her intellectual abilities, sensory abilities and physical abilities at the same time. To date, in France, there is no specific study on the impact of overexposure on screens, but many health professionals, child psychiatrists, paediatricians, speech therapists, regularly alert the public authorities on this subject, and call for more prevention and information measures for the general public, in particular. Minister, what is your position on this? How does the Government intend to act?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u15	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u16	Mrs Petit, you are raising what has become a major public health problem in recent years. As you know, the Government has made the strengthening of prevention a major focus of its policy, particularly in the context of the National Health Strategy 2018-2022: the Prime Minister released yesterday a prevention plan. The treatment of the important problem of overexposure to the screens of young children and its negative effects on their development is fully in line with this approach. Mounir Mahjoubi, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and I discuss this regularly. The use of screens from an early age is intended to create an early dependence on television. The consequences of this danger in infants are developmental disorders and risks of hyperactivity – as you pointed out. The Government pays close attention to this issue; It has already taken action and will take further action. The Conseil Supérieur de l'audiovisuel, based on an expert opinion published by the Ministry of Health on the impact of television channels on the very young child from 0 to 3 years of age, will develop and disseminate information campaigns relayed by all television channels aimed at reminding that all television programmes are not suitable for children under three years of age. In addition, my ministry has just published the new children's health book, which will be distributed from April: in several places, it sends parents a prevention message about screens. Many countries are adopting a preventive communication strategy for children for parents: we will also use this approach, with a view to making it a real issue for children's education. We must also make further progress in our knowledge of this issue: that is why we will conduct specific studies and, of course, remain very attentive to the publication of any new and evidence-based data that will enable us to base our public health policy and further strengthen the prevention and information of families. I am thinking in particular of the measures we will put in place to ensure better support for parenting. The debate is just beginning. Priority will be given to the prevention and safety of our children. You can count on me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u17	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u18	Minister, to communicate with parents, it would be useful to also use day-care centres, day-care centres and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u19	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to raise her question, No. 226, on medical demography in Le Havre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u20	Unfortunately, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, medical desertification is worsening. If all the territories are concerned, I see that the hauvre, urban and rural territory has become a real medical desert, and I regret that. I would like to give you a few examples. While the shortage of ophthalmologists in France is acute, it is particularly acute in Le Havre with a little more than six ophthalmologists per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to nine in the rest of France. The waiting period for an appointment is 153 days on average in Le Havre compared to 100 days at the national level. Such a delay obviously poses problems in view of the increase in eye diseases, particularly related to age – I am thinking of our elders, but also of the younger ones, who spend a lot of time in front of the screens. Psychiatry isn't much better off. The number of psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants in the health-care territory of Le Havre is twice as high as the national average. There are 6.48 employed psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with 13 nationally, and 5.55 liberal psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with 10.2 nationally. In addition, the number of staff in these services is calculated in relation to a theoretical capacity, which is regularly exceeded in the hospital of Le Havre, which causes work overload, fatigue and therefore work stoppages, which are themselves insufficiently replaced – when they are. This vicious circle is exhausting staff. The private hospitals are also experiencing difficulties: the private hospital of Estuaire, located in Le Havre, no longer has a pneumonologist, and therefore a pneumonology service. It is also in great difficulty because of the problems of recruiting an obstetrician gynaecologist, problems which jeopardize the future of her motherhood and could eventually unbalance the organization of the maternity service in our territory. In view of this, however, the medical community, the regional health agency and local and regional authorities have not remained inactive. Thus, the hospital group of Le Havre continues its approach of universalisation in partnership with the university hospital centre – CHU – Rouen, the University of Rouen and the community of agglomeration of Le Havre. However, the problems remain. Last October, you and the Prime Minister presented the Government's proposals to combat medical desertification and increase access to care for all French people. However, given the extreme urgency of medical desertification in our territory, could you tell me what immediate measures you intend to take?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u21	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u22	Mrs Firmin Le Bodo, you are asking me about the question of medical demography, particularly in the Havre region. One of the first levers we want to use is the training of medical professionals. The regional health agency and the University of Rouen want to promote tensioned specialties in your territory, offering more intern positions after the national exam. We also want to promote the offer of internships outside the university hospital, so that future doctors discover the territories, especially in areas where there is a lack of care, during their training. The regional health agency also contributes strongly to the financing of posts of assistant specialists regional: seventy and eleven posts were financed in Normandy last year, including fourteen at the hospital group of Le Havre. In the region, three regional specialist assistants were selected in psychiatry and two in ophthalmology. The Agency also invests in the region to develop telemedicine, especially for fragile audiences such as residents in residential institutions for dependent elderly people: ten EHPADs received financial support in 2017 that enabled them to equip themselves. The Agency is also working to strengthen the attractiveness of hospital practitioner positions, through the recruitment bonus in the hospital career, and to promote shared time between institutions in the most intense specialties, through the territorial exercise bonus. Developing access to care also means considering innovative organizations to free up medical time. I am thinking in particular of strengthening the position of orthoptists vis-à-vis ophthalmologists in order to promote and facilitate access to the renewal of prescriptions for glasses. The recent zoning of doctors recognizes the territory of Le Havre as a complementary area of action, making it eligible for ARS aid linked to a medical subdensity criterion. Recently, the ARS proposed to the prefect of Seine-Maritime to authorize the president of the council of the order of doctors to use a contract of assistant doctor on the agglomeration, which the prefect authorized by decree of 2 March 2018, for a period of one year. Finally, the ARS has entered into a local health contract with the community of agglomeration to support joint actions and funding in the area of prevention and care. As you can see, Member, we are making every effort to be present on the territory, alongside elected officials and Havaris, in order to meet their health expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u23	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u24	I thank you, Madam Minister, for all these details: indeed, all the levers are activated, some, however, in the medium term or even in the long term. In the short term, with regard to ophthalmology, national negotiations are moving in the right direction and will help alleviate problems. It should be noted, however, that there were thirty-five ophthalmologists in Le Havre, and that there are only six. You can easily imagine the difficulties that Havarais encounter in getting an appointment and getting prescribed glasses. Psychiatry and maternity are the two emergencies that worry me the most. If the maternity of the HPE were unfortunately to close, we would find ourselves facing 700 births that the maternity of the hospital of Le Havre would not be able to assume. It is a real problem of territorial organization. As for the Pierre Janet Psychiatric Hospital, he's really in tension. The relatively rapid establishment of a university post would be welcome. The same applies to HPE in the Gynecology Department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u25	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to put his question, No 229, on the situation in the health sector in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u26	My question, Minister of Solidarity and Health, echoes the concerns of Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo. I would like to alert you to the worrying situation in the health sector in Corsica. Persistent and serious problems affect both hospitals for lack of resources and liberal medicine in rural areas due to medical desertification. It must be noted that the public authorities are in the process of losing the fight against medical desertification, particularly in Corsica, a mountain island that is increasingly facing isolation from the rural world from the interior. Micro-regions such as Alta Rocca, Niolu and Cap Corse find themselves or may end up without a doctor. This fact alarms me not only as a doctor but above all as an elected member of Corsica. It calls for bold implementation of innovative tools, so that the inhabitants of the villages no longer have to give up their care. Of course, tools already exist on paper: they aim in particular to increase the number of multidisciplinary health homes, to facilitate the opening of secondary medical offices, to develop the division of tasks between professionals or to promote telemedicine. While all these tools are relevant, their implementation is difficult, due to administrative and regulatory constraints, oversized strategies for our region or slow implementation in the face of sometimes very rapid and numerous shifts, resulting in the exhaustion of elected officials and health professionals. Moreover, the absence of a university hospital prevents us from mastering the flow of students who could settle in our region. The CNAM – Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie –, in its conventional negotiations, is not up to the challenges we face. We could multiply examples, such as the quotations proposed for telemedicine acts, indigent and incompatible with its development. Finally, all the financial measures to support the facility that are proposed are not very attractive to young doctors, and even less restrictive measures. It seems urgent to propose a real upgrading of medical procedures in these areas which want to support all healthcare professionals, both those who are engaged in the front line of the fight and those who would like to settle there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u27	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u28	Mr Colombani, I would like to reaffirm the strong commitment of the State to the hospitals in Corsica, whether it is the hospital centre in Ajaccio, whose state has financed the entire reconstruction, for an amount of 130 million euros, or the hospital centre in Bastia, whose President committed himself, during his visit on 7 February, to finance the second tranche of work. In addition to accompaniment to investment, Corsican health institutions received close to €40 million in exceptional cash aid in 2017. This considerable effort demonstrates our desire to guarantee, alongside the regional health agency of Corsica, access to hospital and outpatient care for the entire population of the island. This is why, with the territorial plan for access to care that we implemented in October, we have favoured hospital and outpatient internships in Corsica, which are now accessible to the interns of Marseilles and Nice throughout the island. Furthermore, the new zoning of doctors, based on the potential localized accessibility indicator – APL – takes into account the access times to the doctor, which is a specificity of mountain areas. This makes it possible to extend the scope of the territories eligible for aid for the installation or maintenance of doctors in Corsica. With regard to the organisation of care in isolated rural areas – Niolu, Alta Rocca or Cap Corse – the primary care team allows professionals to work together. Three multi-professional health-care home projects are under development and are expected to open in the next few months, as I am specifically seeking to facilitate the installation of these professionals. With regard to the support of healthcare professionals, let us consider two strong initiatives. The first is a partnership agreement, currently being signed, between the community of Corsica, the faculties of medicine of Marseille and Nice, the University of Corsica, the URPS – regional unions of health professionals – of liberal doctors and the ARS of Corsica, to develop and improve the reception of general medicine interns and other specialties in ambulatory, as well as the installation of practitioners in Corsica. The second is the establishment of a one-stop-shop for information, guidance and support for the exercise of health professionals who wish to settle in Corsica. Finally, telemedicine is a very suitable tool to promote better access to care: it is therefore necessary to develop it. However, the conventional negotiations with health insurance are in the process of being concluded. So telemedicine will be deployed by the end of 2018 in all territories. The experiment of teleexpertise in dermatology, deployed in Corsica and funded by the ARS, which you mentioned, was certainly underfunded. However, as this experiment has demonstrated the interest of telemedicine, the financing of the acts covered by telemedicine will now become part of the common law, which will facilitate its deployment. As you can see, honourable Member, I really want to offer equal access to care to the people of Corsica. We will do everything we can to achieve this. I will travel to Corsica before the summer to discuss the situation with elected officials and professional communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u29	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u30	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Our concerns on the ground are about the operational nature of the measures you are taking. This is proof of the master's degree, which you mentioned: we have been looking for almost two years to renew these agreements between the University of Corsica, located in Corte, and the region, but we are not succeeding in doing so – many have exhausted themselves. As far as teledermatology experimentation is concerned, it is carried out by the Corsican URPS. For two years, Dr. Florence Ottavy spent crazy time convincing the public authorities of the interest of the scheme. This measure, supported by the entire profession, works as it has made it possible to detect more than eighty-five skin cancers in Corsica and to ensure the follow-up of chronic wounds. The quotations proposed today by the health insurance are not adapted to this experiment: with regard to the follow-up of chronic wounds, for example, we are proposed to make only two photos per year and per patient, which is largely insufficient. In these circumstances, I fear that experimentation will have to be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u31	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 220, concerning the care of unaccompanied foreign minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u32	My question was initially addressed to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, since it deals with the care of isolated minors. However, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, it concerns you just as much. While we will soon be examining the bill for controlled immigration and an effective right of asylum, the departmental councils highlight another issue: the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors. Let me turn a little bit of an eye to my colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, who is facing the same issues and co-chairs a study group on this subject. These young people, considered minors before being seen as foreigners, are subject to the protection of children and therefore to the competence of the departments. Their numbers have been increasing for several years, and departments are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with this challenge. For example, my department of Eure, which hosted 12 young people in 2012, was responsible for 294 in 2017. Since the circular of 31 May 2013, efforts have been made to care for these minors. However, several aspects remain problematic: the financial cost of assessing the age and isolation of these young people, the manner in which they are sheltered by the departments, the saturation of accommodation facilities, the consideration of their state of health, the practical difficulties involved in assessing their situation, or the anticipation of their integration by the majority. Of course, a protocol between the State and the departments covers all these issues, but in view of the increase in this population, it is difficult to establish it. In the face of the humanitarian, social, educational and health challenges we face, much remains to be done. How does the Government intend to give departments the means to improve the assessment of the situation and the care of these young unaccompanied minors in dignity, if these subjects still fall within the competence of the same communities? What new provisions does the Government envisage in the face of the arrival of these young people in distress?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u33	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u34	As you know, Madam Member, the Government is paying particular attention to the issue of unaccompanied minors. Most of the time, it is particularly vulnerable people who have had traumatic life experiences and who need to be protected, as the international convention on the rights of the child obliges us to do: they therefore benefit from the protection of children. A bipartite mission made up of representatives of the Assemblée des départements de France – ADF –, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, the General Inspectorate of Administration and the General Inspectorate of Justice issued a substantiated report on 15 February 2018. This report does indeed show an increase, since the summer of 2017, in the number of persons – mainly boys – who apply for recognition as minors and in the number of unaccompanied minors cared for by the child welfare system. The mission also notes a decrease in the age of these minors. Many departments are now faced with housing difficulties prior to the assessment of minorities, but also with accompanying them once they have reached the age of 18. The mission's findings are shared by the State and the departments. The solutions to deal with this issue of reception and protection of people are of several kinds. First of all, we must fight energetically and decisively, within a European framework, against the channels of smugglers, who are instrumentalizing children and subjecting them to inhuman and degrading treatment. There is a need to harmonize the procedures for assessing the minority, which are now too disparate. In particular, there is no need to use the bone age test. Similarly, the deadlines for these procedures are too heterogeneous in our territory. The State is committed to supporting departments in this evaluation phase: more attention will have to be paid to the health aspects of the procedure. There is also a need to increase housing capacity prior to the assessment of minorities and to provide more support to departments in the financing of such accommodation and associated social support. The President of the Republic has undertaken to do so. There is also a difficulty: the arrival of minors is concentrated in a few departments, namely the border departments and those with large agglomerations. The question of the distribution of persons prior to the evaluation phase and prior to the social assistance for children must therefore be asked. The scenarios proposed by the mission are now under review and are being exchanged between the Government and the departments. Whatever the scenario, the State will play its full part in the conduct of this public policy for the protection of minors, in liaison with the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u35	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u36	Thank you, Minister. Of course, we look forward to the implementation of the proposals of this successful mission. The young people we are talking about are French, since they are entitled to French nationality when they reach the age of majority. The improvement of the conditions for their reception in France will therefore depend on their way of being French tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u37	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to put his question, No 196, concerning the social plan of the company Gemalto.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u38	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to alert you to the particular situation of Gemalto, whose activity is itself very special and of national interest since it concerns digital security. This company, present in France at the sites of Meudon, La Ciotat and Gémenos, next to Marseille, seems to be doing quite well since it paid its CEO an annual salary of 1.5 million euros and made a profit of 370 million euros last year. However, she decided to dismiss 288 people, mostly engineers. However, the State is present in the capital of this company through Bpifrance, the public investment bank. Moreover, it has the possibility of opposing such dismissals by means of normal administrative procedures. If we propose to start these proceedings, it is simply because Thales, itself directly linked to the national interest, has made the decision to buy Gemalto. For us, this is very good news: in this way, a strategic sector remains in our hands. But it would be absurd for a Crown corporation to buy another company of public interest after the dismissal of 288 engineers, which will make it lose an essential part of the grey matter which, in this area, is decisive. These engineers are those who have been asked to train their own competitors in Asia. That's why I'm launching this alert, Madam Secretary of State. Does the State intend to oppose this plan of redundancies, so that the purchase of Gemalto by Thales can save jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u40	Mr President Mélenchon, you are asking the Government about the situation of the employees of the Gemalto Group following the company's announcement of its willingness to conclude a plan to safeguard employment in France – a justified plan, according to the company, because of the need to restore its competitiveness in a competitive market. Be assured that the deconcentrated services of the State have done and continue to exercise constant vigilance in this case to ensure that Gemalto's legal obligations are respected. The capital participation of Bpifrance, which you mentioned, cannot also call into question the need for the Gemalto Group to adapt to external economic constraints. You referred in particular to the current context and the consequences of the merger of the Gemalto Group with Thales. The agreement reached between Thales and Gemalto for the rapprochement of the two companies will enable the combined combination of these two companies, with 90,000 employees and 18 billion euros of turnover, to position themselves as a world leader in cybersecurity, the Internet of Things and authentication solutions. In a high-tech and fast-growing sector, it is a world-wide group strongly rooted in France that will form, subject, of course, to the regulatory authorizations associated with this type of transaction and the membership of Gemalto's shareholders. Like you, Mr. President Mélenchon, I think that is very good news. This project is first of all a project of growth and development: it must allow to strengthen investment and innovation in France, while securing the preservation of our sovereignty over sensitive technological activities. Thales has made clear commitments. No termination of employment will result directly from the reconciliation with Gemalto. In addition, Thales is committed to preserving employment in Gemalto's French activities at least until the end of 2019. Furthermore, if Thales does not intend to put an end to the social plan under way at Gemalto aimed at restoring the company's competitiveness, it has offered the employees concerned access to Thales' labour exchanges and internal mobility programmes, under the same conditions as Thales' employees, in order to maximise the chances of each employee finding a solution adapted to his or her situation. In any event, the Government will pay close attention to compliance with the legal obligations and commitments of both companies. He remains fully engaged on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u41	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u42	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. However, if Thales actually intends to buy out Gemalto and offer Gemalto's employees a positive outcome in the new company, why should they be terminated before? Could we not interrupt the layoff plan, since we are told that these people will not be laid off? This solution was possible, but the prefect refused to implement it when he received the company's unions on March 7. Moreover, the loss of 288 specialists in a sector of this nature does not improve the competitiveness of a company; rather, it decreases it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u43	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor to put his question, No 204, on the purchasing power of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u44	If there is a subject that is of particular concern to the French today, it is that of their purchasing power and their ability to meet their daily needs while participating, through their consumption, in the return of economic growth in our country – a growth which I hope we see some initials that remain to be confirmed. However, the purchasing power of the French depends closely on the level of social and tax levies of all kinds which weigh on their income. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to ask you about a specific and real case that I have met in my constituency. Josette, who lives alone and has worked her whole life as a home helper, receives in all and for all 1190 euros of net monthly income. The problem is that its revenues are above the threshold above which the CSG increases – in other words, its benchmark tax income is too high. The problem is that Josette is a tenant of her apartment and pays a rent of 683 euros per month. The problem is that its energy costs – heating and electricity – average 150 euros per month. The problem is that Josette drives a small diesel car – home, the distances are great – and she wants to be able to do her children a favor and see her grandchildren. However, each month, its gas oil supply has increased: the increase has reached 10 euros in just over a year. The problem is that, since January, the increase in the CSG deprives it every month of 22.10 euros. The problem is that the announced reduction in housing tax will only occur for one third, at the end of the year, and will therefore not compensate for its loss of income. The problem is that Josette is not easy and she needed those 22.10 euros each month to live modestly. Madam Secretary of State, can you answer Josette and the hundreds of thousands of other Josettes that exist in France? They need to know how to continue to assume their daily lives despite this new puncture on their modest incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u45	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u46	Mr Viala, in order to ensure the balance of unprecedented measures for the distribution of purchasing power in favour of assets voted last autumn, the rate of the generalised social contribution increased by 1.7 percentage points as of 1 January 2018 on activity income, replacement income and capital income, with the exception of unemployment benefits and daily allowances. Since 1 January 2018, part of the beneficiaries of a retirement pension therefore contribute more, in the name of intergenerational solidarity: they are pensioners whose incomes are above the threshold allowing the application of a full CSG rate – it is estimated that 60% of pensioners affected by the increase in CSG. The rest, 40 per cent of pensioners, are therefore not concerned: they are the most modest pensioners, including the beneficiaries of the solidarity allowance for the elderly, and remain exempt from social contributions. They are also excluded from the scope of the CSG increase, with some pensioners remaining subject to the CSG at a rate reduced to 3.8% because their resources justify it. While the levy system is progressive in reducing levies for the most modest, it creates threshold effects: for an additional EUR 1 of income, some pensioners change rates from year to year. The Prime Minister thus expressed his wish that the scheme should be corrected for the 100,000 pensioners liable to the CSG at the rate of 8.3% and living in a couple who are subject when the accumulation of their two incomes exceeds the threshold, even if the two pensions are each slightly below 1289 euros. Work will be carried out to propose this corrective action to ensure fair treatment for individual pensions below EUR 1289. In addition to the increase in the CSG rate, the Government's fiscal policy should be broadly assessed. Retired households will benefit from purchasing power measures proposed by the Government. In particular, and as you mentioned, pensioners benefit from the phasing out of the housing tax, which will allow 80% of households to be exempted by 2020 when their net monthly income is less than €2400 net. This tax, which constitutes a particularly heavy tax burden in the budget of middle class households, particularly in municipalities with the least economic activity in their territory. The amount of the tax will decrease by 30 % as of 2018 and the households concerned will cease to pay it in 2020. In the long term, each beneficiary household will save an average of 550 euros per year. Overall, two-thirds of pensioners will not see their purchasing power decline – either for the most modest 40 per cent of pensioners, because they are not affected by the increase in CSG or because they benefit from the progressive exemption from the housing tax. The person you mention, Mr. Member, does not enjoy a favourable combination that allows him to maintain his purchasing power, unlike a large majority of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u47	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u48	I regret, Madam Secretary of State, that, on a specific question, you are making a general and circular answer. I also regret that there is confusion, in your remarks, between the net and gross amounts, because the French must not be misled. Finally, I regret that, when we talk about tax relief, particularly through the housing tax, you did not also explain to retired French citizens that their commune will probably be obliged to increase the rate of other taxes in order to continue to provide for the needs they express in terms of services and equipment, since local public finances will also suffer the impact of the decision to abolish the housing tax, even if there is a reduction, because in the long run there will be a need for substitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u49	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor to put his question, No 214, on the rear margins in the motor vehicle industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u50	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance. Our companies, particularly SMEs and PMIs, face considerable challenges: the need for internationalisation, modernization of the means of production, digitisation and training of employees. The factory of the future will require heavy investment, both in men and in the production apparatus. In order to finance themselves, companies need to achieve sufficient margins. However, in subcontracting, price pressures are considerable and customers, who are often the major groups, demand discounts on productivity gains achieved by SMEs, which can range from up to 1 % of the customer's turnover, while these companies have performance levels in the range of 2 % to 3 %. In Germany, the major groups organize their sector, allowing all companies in the sector to pull their pins out of the game. The National Industry Council seized this issue, expressed by the Prime Minister on November 20, 2017. In order to build the champions of tomorrow, we must strengthen our logic of channels and spread the culture of innovation there. To achieve this, we need a much better balance between major groups and subcontractors. So what measures does the Government intend to take, particularly in the context of the future action plan for enterprise growth and transformation – the so-called "CAPTE" – to ensure that the sectors operate in a more collective and inclusive manner?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u51	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u52	Mr. Sommer, the Government is very attentive to the balance of trade relations, particularly when they involve a large group and a network of small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2011 and 2012, the services of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – conducted surveys on trade relations within the automotive sector. These investigations revealed unbalanced contractual commitments to the benefit of manufacturers and to the detriment of their subcontractors. On this occasion, the practices of quick cash and quick saving were actually identified as likely to contravene the provisions of the 2008 Economic Modernization Act. It is a matter of obtaining additional benefits from its subcontractor, either in the form of an effort in value – it is the quick cash –, usually through the granting of an asset, or in the form of a demand for a fall in the price of the current market – that is what is called the quick saving. These benefits, which often make it necessary to obtain a new market, are supposed to anticipate future and, as such, uncertain productivity gains. Between 2013 and 2015, the administration undertook with the professionals a commitment approach to remedy the breaches found by a modification of the contractual clauses, which resulted in satisfactory modifications of the contracts for certain companies. The Government remains vigilant about the situation of professionals in these sectors and of all sectors in which restrictive competition practices are likely to be observed. This ensures that trade relations between professionals are not clearly unbalanced. The current provisions of the Commercial Code make it possible to characterize these practices and, where appropriate, to have them punished by a judge. The draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and healthy and sustainable food, currently under consideration by Parliament, contains an article which empowers the Government to make by order various amendments and clarifications to the provisions of Title IV of Book IV of the Commercial Code – on transparency, restrictive practices of competition and other prohibited practices – made necessary by the evolution of the texts and the contributions of the case law. It is therefore, honourable Member, in this bill rather than in the PACTE Act that there would be opportunities for clarification. Economic actors will, of course, be consulted in the preparation of this order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u53	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u54	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I shall make two points. First of all, the major groups I mention are not necessarily the major car manufacturers: they are very often large equipment manufacturers, who have quite questionable commercial attitudes. As for legal remedies, acknowledge with me that it is very difficult for an SME-IMP to face one of its clients in court, because what is at stake is market losses. The National Industry Council should therefore conduct a wide-ranging public debate on the subject, in order to raise awareness among all stakeholders and, above all, to enable channels to be better organized. I repeat: there is, not very far away, a model that has shown many virtues. We would have every reason to draw inspiration from what is being done in Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u55	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to put her question, No 206, concerning the postponement of the "The Link" project in La Défense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u56	My question is for the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. Is France really back? The majority of us in this House are convinced that this is not the case for all investors. As negotiations around Brexit elongate, some are beginning to wonder about the attractiveness of our territory. A number of decisions were able to appear to them as negative signals. The recent postponement of the award of the corporate real estate licence required for the installation of the Total Group's headquarters on the La Défense site is part of this question. The Prefect of the Île-de-France region indicated, in a press release dated 19 February, that he wanted "to define a plan for balanced urban development with the city of Puteaux". He also recalled the need to "appreciate the modalities taken into account in the development of the housing and transport business district". If I can fully understand the merits of these reasons, I am astonished at the process, even though last fall we allowed the creation of a new public institution. Indeed, Parliament passed the bill, of which I was a rapporteur, ratifying the order establishing the Paris La Défense public institution. However, this new territorial public facility – EPT – must be able to carry out the renovation and development work necessary to strengthen the attractiveness of the site. I would therefore like to understand this decision, which comes at a time when a truly efficient tool has just been installed. It is necessary to be able to strike a balance between the construction of offices and the construction of nearby dwellings. This is the will of the communities involved in this new public territorial establishment. However, we must be careful about the signals sent by the various partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u57	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u58	Mrs Florennes, I will reply on behalf of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. Your question is an opportunity to recall some of the main features of the attractiveness of Île-de-France in terms of tertiary activities. I want to reassure you: our capacity is important and fits perfectly into the Brexit calendar. A report published in April 2017 by the Chambre de commerce et d'industrie de Paris Île-de-France estimates between 10000 and 30000 the number of jobs in the financial sector that are expected to reach Île-de-France following the Brexit, scheduled for the end of March 2019, which represents a need of 450,000 to 500,000 square meters of offices. However, Ile-de-France now has all the capacity to welcome new jobs in new or restructured tertiary premises according to the latest international standards. Indeed, the real estate market is very dynamic, with a latest generation offer of 2.4 million square meters currently under construction, which will therefore be delivered on the horizon of Brexit. A zoom on the poles with high international visibility shows that La Défense, the Paris Central Business District, Issy-Boulogne and Neuilly-Levallois offer a potential of 1.1 million square metres, including 422000 in Paris and 350,000 in La Défense. This dynamic is expected to continue until 2022, given the operations already approved by the regional prefect. Finally, the approvals under discussion concern offices that will be available well after Brexit, as they relate to operations whose delivery is after 2022. We can therefore be reassured as to the capacity of the Grand Paris as a whole and according to the correct timetable. Projects under investigation in the defence sector could house up to 20,000 additional jobs. They will therefore have significant impacts on the demand for housing and transportation, particularly in the area of La Défense Esplanade station, which is directly served by line 1 of the metro. This additional density in jobs requires a minimum of accompaniment by an additional housing offer, the proportion of which would be adapted and in continuity with the strategic orientations of the business district, the latter having evolved in 2015 towards a greater mix of uses. It is therefore the general interest and the guarantee of the proper functioning of the business district, whose attractiveness depends, that presided over the various decisions taken by the prefect of the region. The postponement of certain applications for approval is thus part of the consultation necessary to resolve upstream the problems posed by a further significant increase in the number of square metres of offices in La Défense by 2023. The action of the State is therefore not in full lag with the Brexit. Ile-de-France is currently Europe's most attractive region for investors. It has many assets to welcome companies and employees. However, in order to ensure the attractiveness of the various neighbourhoods over the long term, it is necessary to work on accessibility issues while ensuring a housing offer that meets the needs of the neighbourhood. From this perspective, the State uses the regulatory tools at its disposal in Île-de-France. The aim is to support the necessary renovation of the business district by ensuring that, with a view to the delivery of new towers, companies and employees can live and work in an accessible and open area. In fact, the La Défense sector is currently benefiting from considerable investments by the State and its partners in transport infrastructure, with the security of the underground motorway complex and the extension of the RER E, the tram line 1 and the West line 15. Member of Parliament, be assured that the Government shares the community's desire for a balance between office and housing construction. I am therefore confident that an agreement will be reached between the State, represented by the Prefect, and the communities involved in the new establishment. This agreement will support the construction of new office capacity and an adapted housing supply, while continuing the development of transport infrastructure. He will thus participate in the attractiveness of the whole of Greater Paris, beyond Brexit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u59	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u60	I thank you for this very comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary of State, and I would like to assure you that the communities are also very much in favour of this consultation, and that they are already involved in it, in addition to housing issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u61	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor to put his question, No 213, on the territorial responsibility and social purpose of undertakings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u62	Reducing territorial inequalities is one of the major challenges of the century. We already see the electoral consequences of these inequalities in other countries: the voters of Donald Trump and the British who voted for Brexit are not the inhabitants of the big cities. Conversely, some territories, because they are richer, such as Catalonia in Spain, or Lombardy and Veneto in Italy, want to secede so as not to finance the country's poorest territories anymore. Inequality, as we can see, undermines the cohesion of countries. I would therefore like to propose a mechanism for measuring the territorial responsibility of companies – TEN – based on social and environmental responsibility – CSR – which has worked very well, since the majority of large companies have played the game and agree to measure the social and environmental dimension of their activities. We would like to measure a number of data: the impact of these companies on employment outside metropolitan areas; their share of telework, in particular collective telework in third places; Finally, the mechanisms they implement to find employment for the spouses of their employees – because this is a problem that often arises. The aim of this scheme is to go further in the deconcentration of the economy. It can be considered that the last decades have rather deconcentrated the economy from the national capitals to the regional metropolises. In France, we have created small Paris in our regions, which centralize both competence and public and private investment. Now we need to think about real economic deconcentration, and not just decentralization of skills to the benefit of communities. I would like to know whether the Minister for Territorial Cohesion would be in favour of such a mechanism. In the 20th century, the deconcentration of the economy created metropolises, and metropolization can be seen as a consequence of the last industrial revolution of the 19th century. Today, the digital industrial revolution allows another form of deconcentration of the economy in non-metropolitan territories. Metropolization was a fact of the twentieth century; Wouldn't it be time to move on to the 21st century?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u63	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u64	Mr President, I should like to apologize to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, who could not be present today and who asked me to read you his answer. As you know, the delegation of the National Assembly to local authorities and decentralization, as part of its work on the preparation of a new stage of decentralization, envisages adding a territorial dimension to the societal responsibility of companies. Nicole Notat's and Jean-Dominique Senard's report also confirms companies' interest in CSR. However, the concept of CSR remains insufficiently shared: according to a report by France Stratégie, "Just over a quarter of French companies with more than 9 employees say they are really involved in responsible actions. They are even 60.4% not aware of the concept of CSR. The larger a company is, the more likely it is that it will be aware of CSR and put it into practice. The knowledge and ownership of CSR therefore struggles to materialize on the ground, especially in small structures and in some regions, despite numerous regulatory or voluntary initiatives. » Nevertheless, it is noted that the concept of territorial responsibility is increasingly needed in the public debate. As a result, an increasing number of companies show a desire to engage in territorial CSR, beyond a question of image and reputation. Indeed, their activity is subject not only to economic judgements or to technical-scientific efficiency, but also to a requirement of sustainable development. Moreover, entrepreneurs understand the need to participate in the development of the territories in order to benefit from the externalities their businesses need, including a climate of confidence and the long-term commitment of local actors to their activities. Finally, proximity and locally rooted cooperation foster the economic performance and construction of "specific assets" by these companies. The prospects for corporate territorial responsibility are therefore positive. The State and companies can join together on matters of common interest. We believe that the territorial footprint of a company or group should be taken into account. To this end, we propose the introduction of a list of indicators in the Code of Business Governance of AFEP – Association française des entreprises privés – and MEDEF. These indicators may reflect, for example, companies' commitment to local employment. They will also be able to measure the evolution of a territory's economic dynamics and local innovation. Finally, it will also be a matter of assessing the improvement in the quality of life that these companies have allowed. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion also wishes to support companies that wish to contribute directly to the attractiveness and cohesion of the territories through specific programmes such as the deployment of coworking spaces or through a digital inclusion programme for people far from the Internet. In this regard, we consider cooperation between public and private actors to be paramount. Thus, we would like to see experiments carried out by companies and territories, whether they are intercommunal or territorial and rural centres of balance – PETR. These experiments may include the development of a TEN reference framework and the development of tools for innovative governance. Mr President, the TEN makes the company an actress in its own right in the territories. It corresponds to a win-win logic involving the company, its territory of activity, its employees and citizens. The Government, in particular the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, was therefore in favour of it and would support initiatives to develop it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u65	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u66	Companies have now realized that their societal, environmental and territorial responsibility is not only a matter of communication, which can give them greater visibility, but that involving their employees around a joint project is also a way to increase their productivity. Attitudes are changing within AFEP: entrepreneurs have understood how our territories are new places of growth for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u67	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor to put his question, No 215, on the use of sewage treatment plants for irrigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u68	My question was to the Minister for Agriculture. "Water is the blood of the earth. By this quote, you will have understood that I would like to draw his attention to irrigation. In recent years, droughts have increased, particularly around the Mediterranean, which has affected agricultural production, particularly wine-growing. He is an elected member of the Western Herault, essentially a winemaker, who talks to you. For several years, wine production has been declining and wine growers have been terrified because they do not see a solution. They are being offered irrigation through lakes, holding ponds or colline reservoirs, but this is not enough and cannot be a lasting solution. In addition, some climatologists are announcing, in the short term, an increase in temperature that could reach 4 degrees in the Mediterranean. Under these conditions, if we do not irrigate these lands, if we do not give them life, it is all the viticulture that will disappear. I therefore wanted to ask the Minister of Agriculture about the issue of waste water. Some countries are already using used water to irrigate their land, such as California or Israel, which have taken up this problem with arms. In my region, an experiment was carried out, particularly in Sigean, on 80 hectares, and it gave very positive results: thanks to a technical process, the water was perfectly treated and neither the soil nor the plants nor the fruits were subjected to any pollution. The agglomeration of Béziers Méditerranée is trying, and I take part, the same type of experimentation on dozens of hectares, and I think that the extension of this process would be useful for viticulture. I was mayor of Adissan, and the sewage treatment plant in my municipality treated 130 cubic metres of water a day. I think it would have been better to direct this large amount of water to the vineyards, which was going into the ditches. It is not just a matter of irrigating, but of compensating for the lack of rain. My question is simple: do you think it is possible to relax the current rules, in order to use used water, which can save viticulture in the Midi de la France, especially in this part of the Hérault of which I am a member?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u70	Mr Huppé, you call the attention of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who sincerely regrets that he cannot be present this morning, to the unequal distribution of water resources in time and space, which may explain local situations of scarcity or overexploitation of the water table. The farmers in my constituency, alas, are also experiencing this. These elements may justify the value of reuse of wastewater treated as an additional or alternative water resource. In any case, this is an alternative solution that we are seriously studying. Nevertheless, as you know, the principles of French regulation are mainly based on the expertise that has been carried out by the Agence française de sécurité sanitaire des alimentaires – AFSSA – and the Agence nationale de sécurité sanitaire de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail – ANSES – in recent years. It is these agencies that decide on the use of wastewater and we therefore have an obligation to work closely with them. The Order of 2 August 2010, as amended by the Order of 4 July 2014, applies to urban wastewater treatment plants. Only irrigation of crops or green areas is permitted. In accordance with the opinions and reports of ANSES, the Order defines usage, distance and terrain constraints, depending on the level of sanitary quality of treated wastewater. It requires the establishment of a programme to monitor the quality of treated wastewater and soil quality, as well as the traceability of irrigation operations. The ministries responsible for this matter – namely the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food – have agreed on the need to amend certain requirements of this Order. Work has therefore been initiated since 2014 with stakeholders to amend the requirements of the Order. The draft decree resulting from this work will have to be the subject of an opinion from ANSES – as I have already said, but I insist on it. In December 2015, the European Commission launched work under the circular economy package to define, through a directive or regulation, minimum quality criteria for reuse of treated wastewater, irrigation and recharging. All this is very framed, you see. The Commission plans to make a proposal for a regulation that will have to be discussed with the Member States and the European Parliament – all this will take time. A national working group was addressing these issues, but for reasons of coordination between different levels of governance, it was forced to suspend the dialogue it had initiated. In any case, be aware that the question of the quantitative management of the water resource is the subject of special attention by our departments and that a unit of expertise on the management of the water resource in the agricultural field, led by Prefect Pierre-Étienne Bisch, was set up in November 2017. Placed under the joint authority of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, its mission is to examine the projects under way, in particular on the storage of water, but also to identify solutions which can improve the general arrangements, the quality of the projects and above all to speed up their implementation. I therefore invite you – although I am sure you have already done so – to come closer to the ministries concerned, to see how to work together and speed up the implementation of solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u71	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u72	I thank the Secretary of State for her clear answer, which will reassure the wine growers. However, the procedure must be speeded up. On the other hand, I repeat, there are other solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u73	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor to put her question, No 221, on hunting-related accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u74	I take this oral question-and-answer session without debate to alert the Government to hunting-related accidents and to the need to provide our fellow citizens with the safety to which they are entitled. As every year in the same season, gunshots resonate in our forests and plains, and cohabitation becomes perilous between hunters and those who do not practice this leisure. During the 2017-2018 hunting season, no fewer than 12 fatalities directly related to this activity were identified. Of these, three concerned non-hunters, namely a walker, a 13-year-old child, a hunting escort killed by his grandfather with a bullet in his head and a woman shot in his own garden, taken for a deer by a hunter on the other side of the hedge. In addition, twenty-eight hunters were shot, as well as seven people, who were not involved in this activity, who were also hit by random fire. They were spectators of beatings but also injured motorists driving their cars, a citizen hit in the greenhouse of his garden, a child accompanying his father to the hunt, also injured, and walkers. There are no more domestic animals, dogs, cows, horses, donkeys, mistakenly slaughtered or material damage. Each weekend brought with it a lot of incidents and even fatal accidents. This sad count is indeed a reality. The regional press has reported on all the cases I have just mentioned and a media watch conducted by an association, the Association for the Protection of Wild Animals – the ASPAS – has made it possible to count them. However, this is a provisional assessment because not all incidents are reported in local newspapers. The National Hunting and Wildlife Board will likely publish its balance sheet in the second quarter of 2018, as had been the case for the 2016-17 hunting season, during which 143 incidents were reported. It is simply inconceivable that this ancestral practice, which affects only 2 per cent of the population, can cause as many deaths, even less audible as non-participating citizens and not spectators of this activity leave their lives there. Our fellow citizens have the right to enjoy their place of residence and natural spaces calmly. They all have the right to garden, pick up mushrooms, ride a bike, ride a horse or simply take their dog out or move around by any means of locomotion without feeling in danger. The State must be the guarantor of the security of all. The use of firearms by non-professionals is far from trivial. In the wake of all these accidents and incidents, a major reform of the safety hunt seems urgent. What do you intend to do to protect the entire population, hunters and non-hunters, and to allow the peaceful coexistence of all activities of full nature?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u76	Madam Member of Parliament, you interviewed Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The safety of residents and walkers, like hunters, hunting days is a priority for our ministry. The terrible accidents that you have mentioned raise a fundamental question about the sharing of space among the various users of the natural environment, which are increasingly numerous. In general, hunting is already prohibited on days of high attendance in the territories whose vocation is to welcome the public and walkers. The National Office for Hunting and Wildlife, a public establishment under the supervision of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, carries out an annual survey of hunting accidents. In recent years their number has decreased, with 110 to 150 accidents recorded each year for 1 million practitioners. There were an average of 200 in the 2000s. There is also a decrease in the number of fatal accidents, from 30 to 40 per season in the early 2000s to less than 20 today. These accidents affect hunters in the majority of cases. Nevertheless, the fact that 20 people die each year under such conditions is absolutely intolerable and dramatic. Training and practical testing of hunting permits have been strengthened in recent years to place a strong emphasis on safety. On this subject, the wrong answers are playoff. The 2008 Act also made it mandatory to lay down rules guaranteeing the safety of hunters and third parties in the departmental plan for cynegetic management. These provisions are binding on hunters and their associations, and their violation is subject to sanctions, including the suspension or withdrawal of the hunting permit by the judicial authority. In addition, offences relating to offences against domestic animals fall under the Penal Code. The penalty for causing the death or injury of a domestic animal is the fine for third-class violations. The voluntary killing of a domestic animal, without necessity, is punishable by the fine prescribed for violations of the fifth class. As you can see, Madam, the public authorities are mobilized and the number of deaths is decreasing significantly from year to year. There are still too many of them and there is a need to continue to mobilize and raise awareness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u77	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u78	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, but thirteen fatal accidents in one year of hunting are still far too much. I wouldn't like my daughter to be one of them next year. In addition, how can we share the natural spaces, while hunting is mainly done on weekends and they are then monopolized by hunters?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u79	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to speak on his question, No. 201, concerning the fight against the proliferation of muskrats.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u80	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The muskrat, a harmful invasive species, has been proliferating for several years in the wateringues of northern France, undermining the roads, destroying the banks, ravaging the crops. In my constituency, it no longer confines itself to the water bodies of the rural environment, but travels to the most urbanized areas. A vector of extremely serious diseases, such as leptospirosis, the muskrat has no natural predator and in reality only man as an adversary. Unfortunately, since the ban almost ten years ago on chemical trapping, we can no longer cope with the proliferation of muskrats. Farmers, inter-communal groups to defend against harmful organisms – GIDON –, municipalities, public institutions for inter-communal cooperation – EPCI –, departments and the Hauts-de-France region have since strongly mobilized to combat this scourge. Financing of training and vaccines, purchases of X-traps and nuggets, distribution of premiums of up to 2 euros per line for voluntary trappers, or even hiring professional trappers: nothing does there, the mechanical fight against the proliferation of the muskrat is now lost. In the only community of communes in the Audruicq region, more than 20,000 muskrats were trapped in 2017, an increase of 50% since 2009, for a historic record. I extend my sincere congratulations to the hundreds of trappers, volunteers and professionals, for their decisive action but which is no longer sufficient. Today I draw the alarm: our small communes and our volunteers can no longer face the scourge alone. Also, I ask you to allow again, even temporarily, the chemical trapping of the muskrat in the Nord and Pas-de-Calais, so that we can regulate the populations that proliferate in our wateringues. I also ask you to put in place an action plan to financially support our communes and enable them to stabilize the banks of the wateringues destroyed by muskrat burrows, to repair the roads mined by the rodent's galleries and to continue to subsidise the voluntary trappers. The situation has lasted too long, and local elected officials refuse to have to wait for a road to collapse under the passage of a bus and the latter to fall into a gulf so that the state finally decides to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u81	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u82	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u83	Mr Dumont, you interviewed Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The muskrat has been on the EU list of invasive alien species of concern since July 2017 and on the national list since last month.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u84	That's a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u85	At the same time, it is listed as a species likely to cause damage and is listed as a second category health hazard. In view of the problems caused by the species, its introduction into the natural environment, its detention, its transport and its marketing are prohibited. The regulations also allow for the initiation of management and control operations on the ground. The species is also chassable game, including in snow. Moreover, it can be regulated by shooting, trapping and digging, all year round and anywhere in metropolitan France. The destruction can be complemented by targeted administrative regulations, including shooting and trapping, all year round, ordered by mayors such as the prefect. You see, honourable Member, that this regulatory pressure is potentially very high and that there are many mechanisms for regulating overpopulation. However, the use of chemical poisons is not a solution – it will not surprise you as long as you think about it in practice. It is prohibited in wetlands because these environments are fragile. Because of their toxicity, their use is a threat not only to fauna and flora but also to public health. The difficulties encountered in the Calaisis marshes cannot be a sufficient reason to call into question the protection of the environment and of our fellow citizens. On the other hand, the diversity of existing arrangements can provide concrete solutions. Under no circumstances, under the pretext of targeting a species, can a process be used that could cause dramatic damage to the entire biodiversity. You will not have escaped that the reduction of biodiversity has entered a phase of dramatic acceleration, in France and all over the world. Our duty is to think about our children and grandchildren. The existing devices are enough and I know you will understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u86	And what are we doing against the current damage?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u87	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u88	I'm sorry, but mechanical trapping is no longer working with the proliferation of muskrats. The number of catches has increased by 50 per cent in less than 10 years, as has the number of professional and volunteer trappers. Small EPCIs with a population of 20,000 are forced to recruit professional trappers in addition to volunteer trappers. The region had to pay each rat tail 50 cents more so the problem is acute. If you propose a solution that does not involve the use of poison, we will have no problem working with you but I assure you that, for the moment, the simple mechanical trapping of the muskrat no longer works: the rat has won the game because as an invasive and exotic species it has no predator. I invite you to come and see the phenomenon in my constituency. Above all, I ask you to find a way to help the communes whose operating budget has to bear the cost of training, vaccines, traps and the purchase of rat tails from the voluntary trappers because the state does not contribute to these costs, nor does it help us to cope with the destruction of roads and banks. I ask you to finally take the bull by the horns because your answer is really disappointing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u89	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u90	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor to put his question, No 216, on the rate of incorporation of bioethanol.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u91	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The energy transition is increasingly concrete and France's place is central, but recent decisions taken by the European Commission on agrofuels call into question agricultural sectors. Why? Because there has been a change of course, without the channels being associated with it. The rate of incorporation of bioethanol into gasoline is 7% today. It is essential that it remains attributed to the first generation of biofuels. The main problem is that French and European oil tankers will only put their own products into oil if this rate is denatured by including palm oil, which, in the latest news, is less virtuous than beets – and that does not make the sectors present on national soil work. In addition, the 7 million hectolitres expected to arrive on the European market under the agreements with Mercosur currently under discussion. I therefore call you to vigilance. It is a subject which does not make the headlines of the media but which is fundamental for France to maintain coherence in its role with regard to the energy transition. Moreover, not reserving this 7% rate to bioethanol poses a temporal problem: second-generation biofuels are not ready, so reducing the share of bioethanol in this rate of incorporation is tantamount to replacing biofuel with oil. From a global perspective, the European Union must be ambitious in order to achieve its targets of 27% renewable energy and 40% greenhouse gas reductions by 2030. It needs second-generation ligno-cellulosic fuels but in addition to first-generation fuels. Can we imagine agreements between countries that want to incorporate more or less biofuels? That question must be asked. Yes, French biofuel chains support the development of second-generation biofuels. They have invested in research and development on second generation technologies, notably through projects such as Futurol or Bio-T-Fuel. In addition, first-generation fuels from European raw materials – beet, cereals, rapeseed, sunflower – provide both human food, energy and protein- or fibre-rich co-products for animal feed, thereby reducing Europe's dependence on South American GMO soybean meal, which contributes to deforestation. It is therefore not necessary to seek to replace the first generation with the second, whereas it is the addition of the two that will achieve the objectives. By giving economic actors the current channels a very negative signal, this proposal does not encourage new investments and takes the risk of setting a theoretical roadmap, with all the associated consequences in terms of economic activity and climate. It therefore needs to be radically reshaped. So what is France's position and what action do you intend to take to make our industry heard?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u92	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u93	Mr Besson-Moreau, you interviewed Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He can't be here today, so I'm answering in his place. As you pointed out, France has set ambitious targets – among the highest in Europe – for the incorporation of biofuels: 7.5% for petrol and 7.7% for diesel. Two categories of biofuels should be distinguished: on the one hand conventional biofuels of food origin, known as first-generation biofuels, whose consumption leads to a conflict of land use and, on the other hand, biofuels from non-food biomass, known as advanced biomass, waste or residues. Bioethanol, which can only be incorporated into gasoline, belongs to any of these categories depending on the raw material used for its manufacture. The rate of incorporation of first-generation biofuels is now set at a maximum of 7%. The Government is working to ensure that the share of biofuels from food products is not increased so as not to unbalance the economic model of existing plants. In the context of discussions on the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive – known as "RED II" – to take account of the decline in fuel consumption by 2030, France has not opposed maintaining the cap on the incorporation of first-generation biofuels into fuels at 7%. However, it called for a mid-term review of this objective. This level was endorsed at last December's Council of Energy Ministers – I was there myself – and must now be discussed in a trialogue between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission. The Government is also supporting the development of so-called advanced biofuels using biomass resources that do not compete with food. This is our priority. Therefore, bioethanol produced from wine marcs and lees is not included in the 7% ceiling but is included as advanced biofuels. France has also achieved a target of 3% for the development of advanced biofuels. The aim is also to develop processes for the production of second-generation biofuels. The Futurol and Bio-T-fuel projects, which you mention, are part of this dynamic and use biomass resources that are not competitive with the food sector. The Government is also implementing an ambitious policy to combat imported deforestation with requirements on the characteristics of raw materials. You know that this is a priority for us – the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition recently launched an initiative on this issue. The aim is to ensure that the materials used in France, including palm oil, have not been produced on deforested land. So we want demanding certifications. This policy is being pursued at the national level – with the development of a national strategy on imported deforestation – and at the European level. I have discussed this myself many times recently with my European counterparts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u94	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u95	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You have answered part of my question, although I do not believe that you have reassured the actors in the sugar and beef sector about the non-use of palm oil as a biofuel. I would remind you of one thing: the Betteravier sector needs us when it has been completely excluded from the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector, known as "EGALIM". Today, she really feels left out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u96	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to raise her question, No 228, concerning the financing of public service obligation lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u97	My question was to the Minister responsible for transport, but I will ask you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for Transport, opened the air transportation base on Tuesday, March 20th, to be held until July this year in order to define the measures to be taken to improve the performance of French air transport. Bringing together the various players in this sector, these foundations have the objective of improving the competitiveness of the French flag, but they also foster more global ambitions by addressing, in particular, the issues of spatial planning. In an interview published on 2 March in the newspaper La Tribune, Élisabeth Borne spoke about the importance of air transport for the opening up of our territories and territorial continuity and called for a strengthening of budgets on public service compulsory routes – OSP. However, it must be noted that, since 2010, the State has been withdrawing from the financing of land-use planning lines. In 2018, the State will only contribute to the financing of five metropolitan lines, after having stopped subsidising six metropolitan lines, including the Tarbes-Paris line in 2016. If the Hautes-Pyrénées have benefited from a public service obligation since 2004, it appears that the monopolistic situation of Air France on the radial routes leads the company to claim compensation in excess of 60% in comparison with the previous agreement, even though the use of this line is currently at the highest level. Thus, as a result of the government's disengagement, the cost of the PSO is borne entirely by the communities, which alone bear the entire deficit of this link. It is an equalization backwards for the most fragile territories. So, Madam Secretary of State, my question will be simple: will the State review its position and contribute to the financing of the deficit on this line, so that the cost of maintaining this service is shared between it and the local authorities? This is, I believe, the sense of balanced land use.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u98	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u99	Mrs Dubie, I will reply instead of the Minister responsible for transport, who could not be here today. As you indicate, given the budgetary constraints of recent years, the State's participation in the financing of metropolitan land use air routes has gradually decreased. The state has thus had to limit its commitment by favouring the service of the most landlocked territories – you will easily understand this choice, Member. The proximity of Pau airport led the State to consider that its participation in the financing of the Tarbes-Paris route was not a priority, since the existence of an alternative airport was part of the criteria taken into account by regulation in its decision. The air transportation bases, which were opened on 20 March by the Minister of Transport and which will end in September, will provide an opportunity to rethink the issue of air service to the territories, taking into account the complementarity of platforms and modes of transport. The aim is to overhaul and rethink the air transport system as a whole. The aim will therefore be to identify the issues and priorities for the future based on an assessment of the situation and to define, together with local and regional authorities, a new policy in this field. I have no doubt, Madam Member, that you will contribute assiduously.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u100	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u101	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. However, I would like to emphasize the territory served by Tarbes-Lourdes-Pyrénées airport. If the latter covers the Hautes-Pyrénées, it is also the case of Comminges and the southern Gers. You also know that, in the Hautes-Pyrénées, the service by plane of Lourdes, a cult city, is all the more important as rail transport has been affected in recent years by the abolition of pilgrimage trains. I therefore insist, Madam Secretary of State, on the need to maintain the same level of service: three rotations a week and two rotations on weekends, with the same contribution as the previous convention, which was already very important. I hope that the foundations will allow the Government to reconsider its position a little and to consider that this Tarbes-Paris line – and the very existence of the airport I mentioned – are essential for the economic development of the territory and its businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u102	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor to put her question, No 218, on the TER Lille-Comines line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u103	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. I would like to refer to an essential dossier for the Lille agglomeration: the maintenance of the TER Lille-Comines line, serving eight stations. Due to insufficient maintenance, this line, in a rapidly changing population pool, is threatened by 2019. However, this option is unreasonable and could lead the entire territory to new economic difficulties and, above all, social isolation. How did we get there? In recent years, maintenance has not been a priority. The ecological aspect of this transport has been ignored and the work on the services has been left out. There are currently three round-trips on weekdays and two on Saturdays, at really unattractive times. You'll agree: it's very little. However, since 2010, the attendance of this link has increased, as can be seen from local studies. Why, then, should we deprive ourselves of this line, unless, of course, we put forward the argument of the difficulties in finding financing to bring it up to level? The challenges of maintaining this local transport of the day-to-day necessary for the mobility and cohesion of the territories are therefore essential. As Mrs Borne pointed out, more than one Frenchman in four refused employment because of lack of means of transport. If this is the case, this line helps to reduce the place of the car in urban transport, which in addition meets the demand for clean public transport in the Lille agglomeration. On this issue, the elected representatives – MP, senator and mayors, of course – who are in direct contact with the reality of the field, speak with the same voice: we must maintain this line. To date, the competence of the regions in the operation of the TERs does not exempt the SNCF, therefore the State, from the maintenance of the network. It is the role of the State to expel and intervene in such cases. That is why I would ask you to support the plan to modernise this line, the only sustainable, realistic and non-polluting solution, and to clarify your intentions in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u104	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u105	Mrs Liso, you have asked Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. You are right, rail links are real levers of social cohesion and play a fundamental role for the economy of our territories, in that they allow the mobility of inhabitants, goods and services, while being an alternative to the car. In this way, the Lille-Comines railway line offers a relevant connection to some 200 users of the Lys valley, who use it daily to go to the Lille metropolis. The situation of this axis, in particular that of the section La Madeleine-Comines, whose upgrading work requires 20 million euros, is representative and emblematic of the delay affecting the maintenance of this type of line, both at regional and national level. The funding needed to upgrade existing lines is important – this will not have escaped you – for the Hauts-de-France region, since nearly 500 million euros are needed to ensure the sustainability of all regional lines for thirty years. You also know that there are particularly strong constraints on the budget of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF. The difficulty is not to demonstrate the relevance of the Lille-Comines line, but to mobilise the funding necessary for its rehabilitation. After decades of underinvestment, it seems necessary for the Minister responsible for transportation to collectively identify new solutions that can respond to difficult situations. To this end, the State-region plan contracts – CPER – currently constitute the only financial framework for the State to intervene in favour of the regeneration of the grid lines. With regard to the Hauts-de-France region, the current CPER, which covers the period 2015-2020, does not foresee any State contribution to this infrastructure; It is therefore up to local and regional authorities to invest to ensure the future of this line. It is in this context that the commitment of the Hauts-de-France region and the local authorities of the Lille metropolis, which finance studies on the opportunity to circulate tram trains on the Lille-Comines line, is involved. The results of this study will enable communities to decide on the directions to be followed for the railway line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u106	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u107	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. This file, which I know well, contains a funding issue, but I would like to go beyond it. All parties agree that this line is not only a rail line, but also a political one. It is very important that the entire agglomeration be reasonably served. The Hauts-de-France region is taking part in this effort; I would like the State to give its impetus as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u108	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to raise her question, No. 203, concerning the section of national road 12 between Verneuil-sur-Avre and Alençon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u109	My question, which was addressed to the Minister responsible for transport, concerns the national road 12, which connects the Paris region with Brittany. This route allows access to the Orne via Paris. This axis offers twice two tracks between Paris and Verneuil-sur-Avre, except on a few portions, notably the deviations of Dreux and Acon. After Verneuil-sur-Avre, the two-way connection between the future deviation of Verneuil-sur-Avre, the link between Saint-Maurice-lès-Charencey – now Charencey, a new commune – and La Ventrouze, and the link between Autheuil and Mortagne-au-Perche is missing. This road route, which unites our region – Normandy – with Île-de-France, is strategic and indispensable for the development of the regional territory. The design of the RN12 for double-tracking of this route is crucial for this structuring axis. A project entitled "AXE 12", at the instigation of local elected officials and consular chambers, proposed in 2013 a public-private arrangement under a partnership contract with the State; It aimed to set up twice two lanes on the RN12 between Alençon and Nonancourt. The State has not supported this project. At a time when mobility is essential for our rural areas and allows us to implement new energies, the development of this road network within it is vital and essential for the Orne. On the other hand, the improvement of conditions promotes road safety – a challenge dear to the Government – and the well-being of the inhabitants, which is an additional argument to be taken into account. Indeed, crossing villages by a national road where traffic in heavy goods vehicles is therefore not an optimal solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u111	What are the intentions of the State with regard to the development of the national road 12, the bypass of Saint-Rémy-sur-Avre, and above all – this is the main object of my question – the part between Verneuil-sur-Avre and Alençon, for a double-tracking on the entire route?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u112	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u113	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u114	Madam Member, you have asked Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. National Route 12 is particularly important for the service of the department of Orne; It is the direct link between its prefecture, Alençon, its industrial basins and Île-de-France. I will not describe its importance further, since you have just done so. The section between Dreux and Nonancourt is intended to be two-tracked as part of the road concession project between RN154 and RN12. The public inquiry prior to the declaration of public utility was completed in early 2017. The committee of inquiry delivered a favourable opinion, with two reservations, one of which concerns the development party to the right of Chartres. The objective is to obtain the signature of the public utility order before July 2018, so that a concessionaire is chosen and the development is carried out within the framework of the schedule that will flow from the programming component of the mobility policy bill, which will be presented to Parliament shortly, and that you will have the opportunity to discuss. The development of the section of the RN12 between Nonancourt and Alençon is intended to be implemented progressively in the framework of State-region planning contracts. For these two sections, a consultation with the public was held at the end of 2017 to identify preferential variants. The public inquiry prior to the declaration of public utility is expected to take place in 2019. For the Euro sections west of Nonancourt, unfortunately, the available studies are too old. The studies and consultations will have to be resumed in order to enable them to be carried out in the context of the next multi-annual programming exercise with the Normandy region. Other arrangements for the development of the section between Nonancourt and Alençon could be considered. You are thus referring to the "AXE 12" initiative, which proposed the setting up of two lanes of the section of the RN12 in question in the framework of a partnership contract providing for the setting up of a toll on the route. As you said, the state has decided not to proceed with this project. Indeed, the financial robustness of the proposed installation was not guaranteed. The traffic assumptions taken into account were visibly too optimistic and were not consistent with the traffic recorded in the sector in previous years. In this context, the porting arrangements currently preferred by the departments of the Ministry of Transport to develop the RN12 currently appear to be the most suitable to meet the mobility needs of the territory you represent, Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u115	Very well, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u116	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u117	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I am pleased that you have provided us with a timetable for a number of commitments. You have mentioned different sections of this road, which are covered separately. I noted that the concessionaire's choice of the part of Saint-Rémy-sur-Avre was to be made before July 2018, and that, with regard to the neighbouring section of Orne, the situation would gradually change from 2019 onwards. You also referred to the State-region plan contract; I will be very attentive to respect for the word of the State. You also mentioned the existence of too old studies concerning the Eure: the mayor of Tourouvre-au-Perche told me that this file had been in the pipes for thirty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u118	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u119	I will be very attentive to the State's compliance with its commitments and to the progress of this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u121	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 205, concerning the rail link at Basel-Mulhouse International Airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u122	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, in the absence of the Minister responsible for Transport, I submit to you my question concerning the railway link of the Basel-Mulhouse International Airport, known as "Euroairport". While the Greater East region and the Swiss cantons of Basel-Ville, Basel-Campagne and Solothurn have signed a memorandum of understanding for the realization of the new railway link at Basel-Mulhouse-Fribourg International Airport, the Duron report – "the famous Duron report," I was going to say – states that there is "not, at this stage, [...] a need to mobilise French national funding under this project". While our Swiss neighbours are ready to invest by recognizing the importance of the development of cross-border rail supply, France, for its part, recommends waiting for the conclusions of an umpteenth socio-economic study for – I quote the report again – "appreciate the usefulness of this project for the community". Madam Secretary of State, my arms are falling! Indeed, this link will make it possible to connect Basel-Mulhouse airport to the TGV East, in the direction of Strasbourg, but also to the TGV Rhine-Rhône, in the direction of Franche-Comté and Burgundy. Do I have to remind here – unfortunately this seems necessary – that the Euroairport is the third Swiss airport, the fifth French airport, the only binational airport in the world, and that it hosts some 120 companies, generates nearly 7,000 direct jobs and more than 20,000 indirect jobs, and this year will reach 8 million passengers? Therefore, I do not think there is a need for further studies to capture this reality. Moreover, just a few kilometres from Euroairport is the largest international road transport customs platform, designed in 1989 to accommodate 400 trucks; However, it accommodates nearly 3000 people a day, which, you may know, causes considerable traffic jams. The reconfiguration of this platform has been included in the 2015-2020 State-Region Plan contract, but again we wonder if the state will keep its word. Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm to me, on the one hand, that the work on the development of this TIR platform will start well this year, as announced, and, on the other hand and above all, that the platform will be carried out under the technical conditions that we wish and that France will also recognise the priority - object, I would remind you, of agreements with Switzerland - of the Euroairport rail link? These are the questions that, through you, I would like to ask the Minister responsible for transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u123	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u124	Mr Reitzer, as you have said, the Basel-Mulhouse airport is an exemplary infrastructure, both in terms of its international governance and in terms of its economic dynamics in the Greater East region. Although it is served by road, with efficient public transport, a regional rail connection project was envisaged in 2010. Following the opportunity studies carried out in collaboration with the Grand Est region, Germany and Switzerland, the French Government renewed its commitment to this project by proposing the inclusion of EUR 5 million in the current State-region plan contract to finance studies prior to the public utility survey. These are currently taking place and will allow us to better appreciate the usefulness of this project to the community in a few months' time. In parallel with these studies, a working group has been set up under the auspices of the Regional Directorate for Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – to prepare the elements to be included in a future international agreement. This working group brings together representatives of the region and other communities involved in the project, SNCF Réseau and SNCF Mobilitys, Euroairport, the Swiss Federal Transport Office, the canton of Basel, the Swiss Federal Railways and German stakeholders. In addition, as you pointed out, the Infrastructure Guidance Board recently submitted its proposals for the financing of transport infrastructure over the next 20 years; the financial contribution of the French State to the Euroairport rail link project is only in the most ambitious scenario. As a result of this report, the Minister of Transport has initiated a series of consultations with all regional presidents, major community associations and users to prepare the programming component of the mobility policy bill, which will be tabled in Parliament in the near future and which you will have an opportunity to discuss. These consultations will help to chart the prospects of the Euroairport rail link project, in particular as regards the participation of the State and its financing. With regard to the customs platform located in Saint-Louis on the A35 motorway, this is a priority operation for the State in view of the stakes involved. As you know, this operation is included in the 2015-2020 State-Region Plan contract, for an overall amount of €8 million, and the financial commitment of the State, the Grand Est region and the Haut-Rhin department was translated into a financing agreement on 22 May 2017. However, given the significant cost of this operation, a steering committee will soon be organised with the local and regional authorities concerned. In addition, a meeting is scheduled on 27 March with the Swiss side to discuss the conditions under which the Swiss side could participate in the financing of the operation – since it is important for it to participate. The objective remains, of course, the commitment of the construction market by the end of the year: this remains our focus. Under these conditions, the first work could start in the spring of 2019, which, I am sure, will please you, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u125	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u126	I take note of the Government's willingness to resolve the rail link problem, and then assure you that all stakeholders – French, Swiss and German, as well as the business community – are in favour of it. All of these partners met yesterday in Mulhouse. As far as the TIR platform is concerned, the "but" are not appropriate, Madam Secretary of State: this infrastructure, included in the plan contract, must be carried out. The work must therefore start as planned, as the traffic jams that are created every day are considerable. Please remove the "but" from your speech, and ensure that the State's commitments are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u127	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No 210, on rail transport in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u128	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. The recent publication of the Duron and Spinetta reports has raised many concerns in the territories. Despite the nuances brought by the Prime Minister, many people still feel that the policy of infrastructure and spatial planning will now be based solely on the profitability of the projects rather than on their public utility. In Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, the possible questioning of the work of the Lyon railway bypass and of the French access to the Lyon-Turin link project, but also the absence of mention and perspective of the very "ill" railway line Grenoble-Lyon, are neither understood nor accepted. Similarly, the programmed death of the "small lines", the very ones on which the Spinetta report proclaims that it is "unthinkable to spend nearly 2 billion euros on just 2% of travellers", provokes the anger of users, residents and local elected officials. At the heart of the constituency of which I am elected, the Grenoble-Veynes-Gap line, for example, is threatened. However, it plays a role as a link within the metropolis of Grenoble but also with the south of Isère, with the mountain villages – little or not well served elsewhere – and between the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes regions. While commitments have been made with regard to road projects such as the RN85, A480 and Rondeau in Grenoble, there are still serious concerns about their implementation and the means devoted to them, to date very insufficient. The inhabitants of our region, especially of Isère, have the feeling of being forgotten and even sacrificed. While the Duron report is designed around the priorities given to everyday mobility, the improvement and security of existing networks and the links between the metropolises, none of them seems to be retained in the south of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, particularly in Isère around the Grenobloise metropolis. Can you reassure elected officials and citizens, and assure us of your commitment and that of the State? We are talking here about strategic issues for mobility, but also for employment and equitable development in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u129	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u130	By launching the foundations of mobility in September 2017, the government has embarked on a recasting of transport policy, with the aim of improving the mobility of the daily lives of all French people. In particular, the foundations have brought together the contributions of many actors, in order to feed into the future mobility policy bill. In addition to this approach, the Government has sought to put in place a specific approach to inform the future of rail transport. After a four-month mission entrusted to him by the Prime Minister, Mr Spinetta made a comprehensive diagnosis and demonstrated the need for a reform of the public rail service in order to reinvent a successful model. I will not detail the content of this report here – I am sure you know it. The report of the Infrastructural Guidance Board has, for its part, followed a series of consultations, which are still under way. These consultations will inform the development of the mobility policy bill, which will be presented to Parliament by this summer. The regional line between Grenoble and Gap is the link between the north and south of the French Alps. It links the prefectures of the departments of Isère and Hautes-Alpes, thus participating in exchanges between the different regions. The state of this line has indeed forced the introduction of slowdowns. Preliminary studies are under way at the Veynes star level in order to establish a complete diagnosis of the condition of the railway installations and the renewal deadlines for the next ten years. These studies will give multi-year visibility, from 2018 to 2026, on the extent of the amounts to be invested, but also to know the future operating conditions and establish priorities in the use of the funding available under the current and future CPER – state-region plan contracts. Indeed, the investments made for the renovation of lines classified 7 to 9 in the nomenclature of the International Union of Railways – the UIC – are intended to be financed under the State-region plan contracts. It is therefore for local and regional authorities, in particular, to identify the investment priorities on the fine service network of the territories according to the mobility needs of our citizens. You have recently had an opportunity to discuss this matter with Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Transport, and you know how much she pays attention to it on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u131	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u132	Thank you for the details and for the information, Madam Secretary of State. On this subject, I had an exchange with the Minister responsible for transport, who informed me of her attention to the mountain lines. Your answer, on the other hand, does not reassure me as you refer the question of funding to the CPER. As you know, the regions today do not have the financial basis to support such projects. The envelope of the CPERs is obviously not sufficient; The State must therefore complete it by its own abundance. I hope that we will be able to discuss this as part of the mobility policy bill. In any case, you should be aware that the regions alone will not be able to provide adequate services to the territories concerned. The commitment of the State is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u133	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No 209, on the maintenance of railway lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u134	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. A recent report raised the question of maintaining non-high-speed lines – LGV. Three elements should be taken into account: the potential of the lines, the rail service policy of the regions and the forthcoming competition. Some of these links are primarily the responsibility of the regions, in particular because of their potential to link two or more regions. Thus, the line Caen-Le Mans-Tours irrigates Argentan, Alençon and above all, of course, Le Mans. Some call it the "railway of the two seas" since it connects the Channel to the Atlantic Arc. It also has the advantage of offering two points of connection to the TGV network, to Le Mans on the Paris-Bretagne-Nantes axis and to Saint Pierre-des-Corps on the Paris-Aquitaine axis, with the obvious interest of ensuring provincial-provincial connections to Lille, Strasbourg, Lyon and the Arc Méditerranée. Although its potential is obvious, its removal is mentioned. The service itself is poorly calibrated and sometimes poorly insured, which, of course, contributes to the little appeal it has for passengers. Thus, in 2017, the offer was very poorly distributed from end to end since, from Caen, two of the three return trips followed less than two hours apart and, from Tours, two departures spaced less than one hour followed a vacuum of more than seven hours. At the same time, the Pays de la Loire region has concluded, with SNCF, an agreement under which the compensation of users, if it were to be improved, would be at the cost of a sharp reduction in the opening hours of the window, estimated for the whole region at 99000 hours over three years – almost 12,000 working days of eight hours. As early as 2019, the regions will have to make tenders, and the deficit lines could disappear, with no private operator wishing to take over such lines a priori, unless the state takes over and promotes the cohesion of the territories. So my question is twofold. Does the Government intend to make the choice to mobilize the potential of our railway lines and to give strong direction to community transport by accompanying the renewal of these lines? Does he also intend to verify that the agreements between the regions and SNCF – and tomorrow's private operators – will guarantee a service that does not call into question access to the trains of the inhabitants outside the densest areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u136	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u137	You are wondering, Madam Member, about the role that the Government intends to play in the articulation of rail services on the national territory, and call in particular Elizabeth Borne's attention to the direct services between Caen and Tours and to the distribution services at the stations in the Pays de la Loire region. As regards these distribution services within the region, the TER agreement concluded between the region and SNCF Mobilitys envisages a gradual reduction in the opening hours of the windows over the period 2018-2020. The State, in view of the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, does not intervene in the choices of the region embodied in this Convention. However, I would like to make it clear that the reduction is not automatic, since the Convention provides that any change must be subject, in advance, to a close consultation process involving the region, the local actors concerned and SNCF Mobilitys and that, following this consultation, the region can oppose it. The convention also provides for the implementation of innovative and diversified solutions according to the needs of customers. With regard to rail services between Caen and Tours, their abolition is not envisaged. The state has decided to maintain this line whose Normandy region will resume governance in 2020. This recovery is likely to improve the overall organisation of the service for the inhabitants of the territories concerned. Furthermore, there is a TER offer able to meet the mobility needs on the line, with trains operating between Caen and Le Mans and between Le Mans and Tours, as well as a direct TER train with more intermediate stops than Intercités trains. These services are operated by SNCF Mobilitys under the agreements signed with the Normandy, Pays de la Loire and Centre-Val de Loire regions. As organising authorities, the three regions are therefore the only ones competent to define this rail offer, based on their analysis of the mobility needs of users and their budgetary priorities. In general, the regions will be able, as part of the opening up to competition, to gradually allocate rail services. This does not mean that only profitable services will be provided: services of national interest will remain funded by the regions or by the state. This is already the case at present, through contracts between the State or regions and SNCF. Finally, in order to meet the objectives of planning and cohesion of the territories and to ensure equal access to public services, it will always be the responsibility of the State to ensure, in dialogue with the regions, the complementarity between services of national and regional interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u138	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u139	I raised this issue last week with the Prime Minister, who was on a trip to Le Mans. He said the opposite of what you just said, Madam Secretary of State, since he announced that the State would intervene to examine closely the agreements he had made with SNCF and the regions. We must therefore pay attention to what is announced, especially since, when three regions discuss, their interests are not necessarily the same. I therefore call on the Government to be vigilant on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u140	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No 211, concerning the road service to the north of the Ardèche and the north of the Drôme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u141	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Transport to the road service in northern Ardèche and northern Drôme. These territories have been facing mobility problems for forty years. In September 2016, the Government launched a motorway recovery plan. Thanks to the mobilization of local elected representatives, the creation of two new exchangers on the A7 in the north of Drôme and the north of Ardèche was one of the selected dossiers. A real development factor for this territory, particularly in terms of economic and tourist attractiveness, these motorway interchanges will facilitate the local service and greatly improve the daily lives of the inhabitants. Unfortunately, however, they will not be enough to cope with the heavy road traffic and population growth in these territories. For example, 20,000 vehicles cross the motorway bridge across the Rhône in Tournon-sur-Rhône, a city of 11,000 inhabitants located in Ardèche. For the inhabitants who work in the Drôme, this 5% increase in traffic compared to less than ten years ago extends by 30 minutes their already long journeys from the plateau ardéchois to the Rhône valley. The opening of the interchange, which is expected to take place in 2020 or 2021, will lead to an increase in traffic on bridges crossing the Rhône and connecting the Ardèche to the Drôme, a problem all the more significant for our inhabitants since the railway line on the right bank of the Rhône, which crosses the Ardèche, has been closed to passenger transport since 1972. L'Ardèche is thus the only French department which, while not benefiting from a rail passenger service, remains affected by the nuisances of increasing freight traffic. I would therefore like to know the Government's position on the desirability of launching a study, so that the construction of these interchanges can be accompanied by a reflection on all the road infrastructure of the north of the Ardèche and on a third bridge on the Rhône, which we wish. Several crossings are possible between the south and the north of the electoral district, but the one between Andance and Serrières seems the fairest. In this reflection, which we are carrying out with all the actors in the local and regional authorities concerned, it is essential to integrate the necessary mobility patterns, in order to find intelligent public transport solutions for our inhabitants. The communities have always expressed interest in this type of development and their willingness to work there, but the construction of an additional bridge over the Rhône obviously requires co-financing by the State. So what are the Government's intentions to open up the north of the Drôme and the Ardèche?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u142	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u143	Madam Member, you are asking Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, about the road service to the Ardèche and the Drôme. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. These two departments, as well as those of Isère, Loire and Rhône, have recently been the subject of a partnership study, entitled Multimodal study of the displacement of the Rhône-Median space, which is part of the territorial part of the current contract for a State-region plan – CPER – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. In fact, the local authorities in this territory carry numerous projects and requests for development, most often in connection with the national road 7, which is in fact its structuring axis. This is why the Rhône-Median study, led by the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, was based on the construction of a multimodal model of travel taking into account current and future motorised and rail movements of freight and passengers. The integration of economic growth forecasts into this model, in a collaborative manner with communities, allowed for the construction and evaluation of a projection by 2040. The partners identified many projects in 2016. A so-called consensus scenario was finally chosen with thirteen projects, including the creation of a new bridge on the Rhône south of Andance and the development of the departmental road 82, in connection with the creation of the Drôme Nord interchange, at an estimated cost of around 200 million euros. In order to refine this scenario, the Government wishes to continue this reflection by conducting a route study on the national road 7 for which a study office will soon be recruited. This study should make it possible to link spatial development projects and the proper functioning of transport infrastructure in a meaningful way. It will serve as a basis for discussion during the next contract for the National Highway 7 projects. Finally, with regard to the two half-exchangers on the A7 motorway in the north of the Drôme and the north of the Ardèche that you mentioned, Member, they are maintained in the draft motorway investment plan launched in July 2016, on which the Autorité de régulation des activités rails et routes delivered its opinions in June 2017. It is now up to the Council of State to consider draft decrees approving draft amendments to concession agreements relating to this investment plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u144	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor to put his question, No 198, on the maintenance of railway lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u145	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. The question of renovating the 9000 kilometres of SNCF lines that are considered unprofitable is now being asked. The Government says that it does not want to close these lines, but who will finance their maintenance, even though they are mainly in rural areas and have not been maintained by SNCF in the last 30 years? The managing director of SNCF Réseau recently stated in La Voix du Nord, our regional newspaper, that "the role of SNCF Réseau cannot be the funding of important work on small lines." In my region of Hauts-de-France, these are the lines linking Lourches to Valenciennes, Cambrai to Douai, Lille to Comines, Saint-Pol to Arras or Saint-Pol and Etaples. Yes, we are concerned, especially as the worst assumptions are circulating, that either the region should decide to take over these lines and maintain the tracks, or the latter would be completely replaced by buses or carsharing. So, what about info or intoxication? We need to be clear about this, especially since the President of the Hauts-de-France wants to go quickly in opening up to competition, which also worries us. If your project is to leave it to the regions to renovate these lines within the framework of the State-region plan contracts – CPER – it is a market for dupes, because it is a new expenditure, including in these plan contracts. Communities will not be able to finance the work at all, especially as the Government plans to reduce its funding. In the Hauts-de-France, the amount has already been estimated at 400 million euros. These lines, which are so useful to workers or school children living in rural areas, are treasures of life in our countryside. Even modestly, they contribute to the climate challenge, avoiding coach transport. Finally, this project will oppose rich regions to poor regions, those that will have the means to invest in track maintenance, in regional express trains – TER – and those that will not, including in the framework of CPER. We are far from the principle of our Republic, aimed at providing equality of public service in all parts of the territory, from north to south, from the city to the countryside. Thus, can the Government provide us with details on the future management of these ill-named "small lines" as well as on the means that the State must urgently release for their maintenance and modernization?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u146	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u147	Mr President, you are questioning Élisabeth Borne, Minister for Transport. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. First of all, I would like to reiterate that the Government is fully aware of the importance of the so-called mesh railway lines for the vitality of the territories crossed. Contrary to what you have suggested in your question, we do not want to let them down. As you yourself are well aware, after decades of underinvestment, the state of the network of these lines is indeed worrying. The need to upgrade the 9000 km of lines concerned thus amounts to almost EUR 5 billion for the next decade. At the same time, the needs on the structuring network are also considerable. The Government has already pledged €3.6 billion per year over the next 10 years for the renovation of the structural network, which is 50 per cent more than in the last 10 years. In this context, I would like to reiterate that the Government does not wish to stop investing in the least-circulated lines of the network. In his speech of February 26, 2018, the Prime Minister made it very clear: "It is not a reform of the small lines. I will not follow the Spinetta report on this point." Low-traffic lines are necessary for the daily transport of a large number of French people, an area which, as you know, the Government has made a priority. These lines serve a wide range of territories, including rural areas with often little supply, for which the Government is particularly mobilized, as part of its efforts to promote mobility for all. Funding for the regeneration of these lines is provided both by the State and by the regions in the State-region plan contracts. The State's commitment to invest EUR 1.5 billion for the upgrading of these lines under the State-region plan contracts will therefore be maintained. As you know, honourable Member, future developments in the network should not be made unilaterally. They must take place with the regions, co-financers of the CPER and organising authorities of the railway services, in the context of the revision of the CPERs, and in a responsible and balanced discussion. On this point, I repeat, we have not followed the recommendation of the Spinetta report. For us, more than ever, small lines are of fundamental importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u148	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u149	This response does not reassure us because the Government intends to refer the maintenance, renovation and modernization of these lines to the regions, including under the State-region plan contracts. These expenditures, which were not planned, will worsen the difficulties of the communities, including the fiscal difficulties of the regions, in a period of declining endowments. We are therefore deeply concerned about this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u150	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, to put his question, No 199, on State participation in Aéroports de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u151	My question is for the Minister of Transport. Revenue of €3.6 billion in 2017, up 22.7% from 2016. An economic giant weighing 570860 direct and indirect jobs, i.e. 2.2% of employment in France and 8% of that in Ile-de-France, which also accounts for 1.4% of France's GDP and 42% of the Seine-Saint-Denis's gross domestic product. I assume, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, that you know that these very sound economic data are those of Paris Airports. To complete the picture, I would add that the future is even brighter, considering that global air traffic must double in the next twenty years. The dividends paid to the shareholders of ADP amount to EUR 261 million, and the State holds 50.6 % of that amount, up to the capital it holds. The company is the fifth source of dividends for the State. ADP is a remarkable heritage and know-how, which the state has decided to brade. You want not only to reduce the share of the state, as François Hollande did in 2013 when he had already sold 13% of ADP to Vinci and a subsidiary of Crédit agricole, but also to disengage you in full. If there is no industrial justification for this, there are, on the other hand, several dangers. The first is geostrategic, since Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle is the first frontier of France. We must maintain public control of our airports when they have this border dimension. The second concerns Air France, since our national airline can be fully linked. Being in a monopoly situation, ADP will be able to impose conditions and tariffs that will put the company in the greatest difficulties, without it being able to escape. More than 30 years after the process of privatisation of the motorways, which ended in 2006 with a big racket, offering a real cash machine to Vinci, you want to repaint its big appetite again in 2018. The airport unions, in particular the CGT, by the voice of its secretary Daniel Bertone, warn about a situation of quasi-monopoly, which would give Vinci the possibility to dictate to the State its choices in terms of air transport, without the latter no longer being able to regulate. Of course, the Communist Members are totally against these plans for privatisation, as we were already doing in the early 2000s, notably through the voice of my predecessor, François Asensi. Privatization is harmful for five major reasons. It is detrimental to the employment and social model of ADP; for airport investments, which would be sacrificed on the altar of short-term profitability; for the unity and complementarity of the Parisian airport system, with a possible dismantling of ADP; for the control of land, with the risk of harmful speculation for the surrounding municipalities and their inhabitants; for the control of national security, with the control of the first French border under private pilotage. In conclusion, Madam Minister of Transport – pardon: Madam Secretary of State, not the Minister of Transport, unfortunately (Sorry) – I would like to ask you a two-way question. Are you about to give up completely ADP to leave it all in the private basket, in order to comfort large groups like Vinci? Is this, on the part of the Government, compensation granted to Vinci after the definitive cessation of the airport project at Notre-Dame-des-Landes? Have you decided to take away from the nation this strategically decisive and economically profitable flagship for the sole reason that after thirty years of cascade privatization, only strategic assets remain to be delivered to capital?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u152	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u153	Mr Little, I am indeed not the Minister of Transport, and I am sorry for that for you, but I am replying to you in her place because she was unable to be present today. I reassure you immediately: the state is absolutely not plotting with Vinci in the backs of the French. As you know, no decision on disposals of assets has yet been taken by the Government. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy and Finance have indicated that the fund to finance break-up innovation, which has just been created, will be gradually endowed with 10 billion euros, derived from proceeds from divestitures of shares. Several scenarios are under consideration but, I repeat, no decision has been taken at the moment, whether it be Paris airports or other assets. By admitting that a decision is taken, and if the Government decides that the State withdraws in whole or in part from the capital of Aéroports de Paris, a law should be submitted to Parliament. In any event, this law would provide the necessary provisions to strengthen the levers that are in the hands of the state in regulating, controlling investments and quality of airport service – it is simply the law, Mr. Moreover, the State would of course retain its prerogatives in the areas of surveillance of platform security and security, air control and slot allocation. Finally, airport charges would naturally remain subject to control by the independent regulator. As you can see, honourable Member, under no circumstances is it a question of giving free rein to private interests which would harm the French economy and the French. I repeat, no decision has been made.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u154	Mrs Osson has the floor to put her question, No 217, concerning the forensic unit of the Roubaix hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u155	My question is to Mrs. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. In August 2017, the legal medicine department of the Roubaix hospital was closed, forcing victims of violence and assault to move from now on to the medical and judicial unit – UMJ – in Lille. While the Government has made accompanying the victims one of the three priorities of the quinquennium in the context of the great cause of equality between women and men, I cannot understand that such an essential outreach service for combating violence and accompanying victims is being abolished. When one is a victim of rape, sexual assault, theft with violence or domestic violence, making a complaint to the police station is already a test. The geographical remoteness of State services increases the risk of delaying or even waiving the process. In addition, the longer the time passes, the more likely the evidence is to disappear. By letter dated 7 March, you presented me with the two reasons for the closure of the service in Roubaix. Firstly, the number of doctors in the UMJ Lille would be sufficient to ensure the activity which the Roubaix department was responsible for. The second reason was that "the UMJ of Lille being located 14.5 kilometers from the city of Roubaix, the development of the public transport network allows to meet the needs of the users". To base the decision to delete the service of Roubaix on these statistical considerations alone seems to me to be an error. In doing so, neither the reality nor the specificities of the Roubaisian territory are taken into account. In 2014, the poverty rate was 43 per cent. Victims of aggression and violence who are in a precarious situation do not have the means to pay for transport to Lille. Of course, police investigators are expected to accompany these people to the medical centres, but this solution runs counter to the President of the Republic's objective of refocusing police personnel on the protection of our fellow citizens on the ground. For example, every hour spent by a police officer accompanying the victims in Lille is an hour less spent in Roubaix protecting the population from violence on the ground. However, the needs in the Roubaisian territory, France's first priority security zone, are enormous: the rate of violence per thousand inhabitants is 40 per cent higher than the national average. In your mail, you suggested that a victim counselling activity could be reintroduced into the Roubaix hospital. This would be a real step forward in relation to the current situation, but I remain puzzled about its ability to meet the needs of the victims. Indeed, in its report on the evaluation of the organization of forensic medicine, the General Inspectorate of Finance pointed out that the "occasional institution of advanced offices or consultations has only slightly improved" the situation and that, for thirteen jurisdictions that benefited in 2013, "just over a quarter of these offices would be operational every day of the week and the proportion of those that would be operational at night and on weekends is even lower". Does the guard of the seals intend to take account of this reality and facilitate the reopening of a forensic medical service in Roubaix? In the event of the reintroduction of a victim counselling activity within the Roubaix hospital, what guarantees that this antenna will not experience a situation similar to that described by the IGF in its report?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u156	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u157	I fully understand your concern, honourable Member, and I want to tell you on behalf of Mrs.Secretariat how far we are from an accounting approach: our approach is people-related – I will go back to that. The concern for proximity which you echo, in relation to the specificities of the Roubaisian, is a very important element which has been taken into consideration by the services of Mrs. As you know, we have a master plan for life medicine, which is, for the commune you refer to, the responsibility of the Court of Appeal of Douai, which includes the medical and judicial units of Valenciennes, Lille and Boulogne-sur-Mer. The hospital in Roubaix, as you said, is not listed in this diagram. It's not for accounting reasons. In fact, one person – a doctor – had taken an individual and isolated initiative – which did not detract from the quality of service he was rendering – that the hospital management had accepted in 2012. The acts carried out in this context were therefore financed from legal expenses. However, their volume did not make it possible to sustain the post. This has been established through numerical data, but linked to this personal reality. However, in view of the specificities of the Roubaisian region that you have rightly recalled, it is important that there should be permanences within the Roubaix hospital centre. The Minister therefore undertakes to ensure that UMJ Lille's permanent offices are provided in the hospital centre, that they are regular and that they are held in very good conditions, in order to respond to the emergencies you mention and so that mobility is never an obstacle to the quality of the judicial service that must be rendered. This system, which has already been tested, seems to give all satisfaction to both litigants and legal professionals, in particular because it takes into account the difficulties of moving litigants. It is important that you pay attention to them as parliamentarians of this territory: do not hesitate to inform us of any malfunctions, Mrs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u158	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to put his question, No. 200, concerning the Argentan High Court.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u159	My question is for Mrs La Custody of Seals, represented by the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the reform of the judicial map in Orne. I know that the Government has repeatedly indicated that there is no question of simply closing sites, which, of course, reassures me for the Argentan High Court and for the Flers High Court in my constituency. But the proposed merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance at the departmental level is not without legitimate questions, particularly concerning the jurisdiction of Argentan. Indeed, it will only be possible to form poles of competence and to specialise the Ornais sites – which now have two TGIs, Alençon and Argentan – to the detriment of the personnel of the justice system, to the detriment of the litigants, to the detriment of the justice system itself, which will lose in efficiency. I do not want to believe that, behind this development, which would be to gently devitalise the sites concerned by emptying them from their skills, thanks to the anesthesiating of the kind commitments of Mrs. Keeper of Seals, there is the idea of closing sites at a later date. Proximity justice is the essential condition for effective, rapid and quality justice, especially in a department such as Orne where the population is spread over a vast territory without large cities and has to travel long distances to reach our medium-sized cities. By decentralizing and specializing the courts, justice will be taken away from the litigants by forcing them to travel ever more kilometres without public transport. By decentralizing and specializing, judges and judicial personnel will be removed from the field; They are being removed from what makes today the success of a TGI such as that of Argentan: the knowledge of investigators, of situations, of detainees, the solidarity of the teams within the courts. This measure of merger of TGIs would be all the more incomprehensible since Argentan's jurisdiction is one of the most reactive in France: its waiting and hearing times are among the shortest. My question is rather a wish, addressed to the Government: that two TGIs be retained in the Orne – it is an imperative necessity – so that Argentan retains all of its powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u161	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u162	I understand your concern, honourable Member, and I will try, on behalf of the seal keeper, to reassure you once again. I understand you all the better since I have the memory, when I was mayor of a sub-prefecture of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, of having one day learned by an AFP dispatch the closure of the court of instance of this commune – Forcalquier. At the time, the seal guard was called Rachida Dati. I am therefore aware of the consequences that such a decision may have on a territory, especially when there is a lack of upstream consultation that the current minister has wished to undertake. As you know, last October the Prime Minister and the keeper of seals launched five projects aimed at deeply reforming our justice system so that, in accordance with the will of all, justice can be delivered more quickly and effectively. Among these projects was the adaptation of our judicial network. I am aware of the concerns that have arisen then, but I believe that we now have elements to reassure everyone about your department and the rest of the country. Actors of the field and elected have always been consulted, in order to bring out a diagnosis and very concrete proposals. These proposals were then handed over to the custody of the seals, and it was on their basis that the latter opened a round of consultations with representatives of the world of justice, including trade unions, representatives of lawyers and magistrates and those of the regulated professions. I stress the importance of choosing this method: no decision has been taken in advance. The proposals which you know and which you have referred to have emerged from these exchanges. A bill on this subject will be submitted by the Government by the summer. Courts of appeal will be maintained within their existing jurisdiction, and courts of major jurisdiction will be preserved under the same conditions. The trial courts will remain where they are located in your department. They will be organically attached to the High Court in whose jurisdiction they are located, in order to improve their management, and it is possible that local judicial authorities may decide on developments concerning not their location, but specializations, on the proposal of the chiefs of courts, after local consultations. The advantage would be that, given the difficulty of the law, judges and specialized teams would be able to provide all the answers to the questions that would arise. I repeat, I want to reassure you in the name of the custody of the seals: the courts of grand instance of Alençon and Argentan will be kept as courts of full exercise, with their prerogatives. Nothing will change with the passage of the law by this assembly and then by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u163	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u164	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, which is in the right direction. I would like to point out that Argentan also hosts one of the largest detention centres in France, with nearly 630 places: this requires a strong enforcement component and the presence of two enforcement judges nearby. These missions require a constant dialogue with the Public Prosecutor's Office, which could not be held at a distance in the event of the relocation of the judges. Similarly, it is imperative to keep an investigating judge in Argentan, because the presence of the detention centre, with its violence, trafficking and suicides, requires a reactive criminal policy, also involving the opening of information. I therefore reiterate my request to the Government, supported by the professionals of the justice system, by the inhabitants and the elected representatives of Argentina: it is essential to retain in the Argentine court all its current prerogatives. We will be vigilant in this regard and will continue to mobilize to that end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u165	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u166	Mr François André, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No 219 concerning the transfer of competence for drinking water and the balance of the municipal supplementary budgets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u167	My question concerns the financial arrangements for the transfer of powers from municipalities to public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – the EPCI – under the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the "NOTRE Law", and in particular the transfer of the cumulative results of the supplementary budgets "drinking water" – the budgetary balances in some way. A municipality may manage an industrial and commercial public service in the form of a self-sustaining government. These operations are retraced in supplementary budgets which must be balanced without recourse to the main budget. In the context of a transfer of powers, the provision of assets includes movable, immovable and rights and obligations vested in jurisdiction, as recognized on the date of the transfer. It remains to be determined whether the balance of the annex budget – in surplus or in deficit – constitutes a right or movable property, in which case, under the agreement of the parties on its allocation, at least one part of it should be transferred. To date, it has been consistently considered by departmental authorities that the balances of the supplementary budgets, whether positive or not, should be transferred at the same time as the exercise of jurisdiction. However, a recent judgment of the Council of State, known as "La Motte-Ternant", of 25 March 2016 lays down the principle that the balance of the annexed budget does not constitute a necessary asset for the exercise of a public service. As a result, the transfer of cash is not necessary, thus leaving open the possibility of an amicable agreement on the arrangements for the distribution of balances. This case law raises questions. First, this surplus is financed by the users of a municipality on their water bill and must therefore continue to be used to finance water-related expenditure alone. Secondly, the absence of a transfer of the balance could lead to certain EPCIs having inherited the competence to borrow or increase the tariffs in order to make the necessary investments, which would amount to charging the users of the municipality a second time for the same purpose. I would therefore like to know the Government's interpretation of the right in this regard and whether, in its view, clarification would not be necessary, so that the user charges remain allocated to the financing of the service concerned and do not unduly feed the general budgets of the municipalities through the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u168	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u169	Mr President, the charm of oral questions without debate is that we are going down to levels which might seem very technical, but which, for those who, like you, have experience on the ground, are a matter of concern to the elected representatives on a very regular basis. I would like to remind you of the Government's willingness to give the territories more freedom to organize themselves, with the help of Parliament. For example, a bill, which will shortly be under discussion in the Senate, was adopted by this House on 31 January last, on the question of automatic transfer of water and sanitation, with a double deadline. It is essential that local elected officials be able to decide what is good or not good for their territory. You are asking me to give you a reading of the law that the Government is doing. It should be noted that, of course, for legal analysis, it lies with the high authority of the Council of State, according to which transfer is not now compulsory. A legislative development could lead the Council of State to pronounce itself differently, but that is not what is foreseen, particularly in the current text of the bill that I referred to. With regard to this transfer, the Council of State provides two clarifications. It does not prohibit an agreement between the representatives of the municipalities and those of the EPCI to obtain the transfer of the amounts mentioned. In addition, you have a positive approach in your question:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u170	Always!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u171	...that of a credit. However, one can imagine the opposite situation, with a negative transfer for the EPCI. No amendments had been adopted to make the transfer of related appropriations compulsory, either positive or negative, for fear that this would block the system. We believe, in the name of freedom, that the discussion to define transfers must take place between the municipalities and the EPCIs. In conclusion, please know, Mr. Member, that the Government has made small water cycle management one of its priorities. I take as proof the next holding of the water seats. The consultation phase, in which local elected representatives and professionals from the sector are involved, will not fail to bring about concrete solutions that will, I hope, meet your expectations and those of our fellow citizens, and which may lead us to propose legislative changes that will allow the Council of State to interpret the rule of law that applies today differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u172	Mr François André has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u173	I fully understand the interpretation just given by the Secretary of State of the law and, above all, of case law. I fear, however, that by the time of the transfer, which was made possible until 2026, if the bill is adopted, we will be confronted with picocholine discussions between the EPCIs and the member communes. I wonder whether regulatory clarifications could not be made so that the water user would not pay twice the investments: the first for past royalties that gave rise to surpluses; the second by the EPCI heirs to the jurisdiction, which would lead to an increase in the fee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u174	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor to raise her question, No. 212, concerning the number of judicial police officers in the Yonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u175	My question concerns the shortage of judicial police officers in the Yonne department, where I am elected. In his speech to the internal security forces, on Wednesday, 18 October 2017, President Emmanuel Macron announced the creation of 10,000 additional jobs, over the five-year period, within the security forces and for the intelligence services. As of 2018, 1400 jobs will be created within the National Police. This is a significant effort on the part of our Government, which should be welcomed, especially since it is taking place in times of declining public numbers. However, I have seen in my constituency that the problem is not as much a matter of the number of national police and gendarmerie as of their qualifications. Indeed, the few senior officers present do not remain in Yonne for a long time. Unfortunately, this lack of qualifications within our workforce prevents an effective criminal response to the case. The breakdown in the number of judicial police officers in the Territory is due in particular to the lack of attractiveness of the Department. Located in the third Parisian crown, it is confronted with the same type of crime as those that occur in Île-de-France. It also has a significant overall crime rate, although it is down 8.8% in 2017 compared to 2016. This decrease is due, in part, to the occupation of the land and the rise in preventive measures. What provisions could be implemented to encourage training of gendarmes and what counterpart, for example in terms of professional development, could be proposed to encourage them to remain in Yonne and thus ensure an effective criminal response?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u176	Not the daily security police anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u177	Ah, we missed you, Mr. Di Filippo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u178	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u179	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u180	Mrs Crouzet, in terms of security, whether it is terrorism or daily crime, the expectations of the French and their elected representatives are great. That is why the Government has made it a priority and provided our law enforcement forces with additional resources, including the creation of 10,000 posts during the quinquennium. However, as you have shown with the example you have given, there is also a need for far-reaching reforms. The daily security police is an element of response, when some may have preferred the era when 12,500 posts in the police and gendarmerie were abolished. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice are trying to define local security strategies, under the authority of the prefects in each department. These sites must bear fruit, both in Yonne and elsewhere, because the principles of the daily security police apply throughout the territory. As far as Yonne is concerned, your question highlights the imbalances existing in some territories, more rural than others, which may seem less attractive – there is no insult, the deputy of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, that I have also known these difficulties. As of 28 February 2018, there are 210 non-commissioned gendarmerie officers in your department – 49.5 per cent of the group's staff against a national average of 54 per cent – and 35 officers and peacekeepers qualified as judicial police officers. The gap that you have highlighted in your question is very real. Of these, 22 are assigned to the investigative services, which it is essential to strengthen. Discussions are already under way on the opening of two posts in the context of the next so-called "profiled" transfer movement. But I would also like to point out that the territorial public security services in this department are on the rise, from 221 officers at the end of 2016 to 231 officers at the end of February 2018. These are the very concrete consequences of increases in our national gendarmerie. For the national gendarmerie, training in the qualification of judicial police officers is conducted by the gendarmerie region to respond to the current departmental imbalances. In 2018 there will be a massive arrival of young gendarmes who have not yet acquired all the necessary experience. The balance between ranks and non-grades will have to be found. Finally, in order to retain judicial police officers or fill vacancies, the Directorate-General of the National Gendarmerie requires newly qualified military personnel to remain for at least four years in their area of membership. In addition, an annual call for volunteers is distributed to the ranks of the neighbouring regions to enable them to hold managerial and command positions in the deficit regions. The mobilization of the State, in connection with the elected representatives of the territories, is therefore complete; But it must also, as you know, be able to rely on the commitment of all its local partners, first and foremost the local authorities, who are essential actors in prevention and safety in order to provide very concrete answers to security issues, as is necessary in the Yonne region as well as in the rest of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u181	Mr Adrien Morenas, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 222, concerning the malfunctions of the National Security Securities Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u182	The accessibility of the National Secure Securities Agency's website – the ANC – is difficult at certain times, if not totally impossible for a whole day because the site does not respond. The waiting time with the telephone maintenance service can sometimes be several tens of minutes, without obtaining a caller, even when the call is billed. When you end up successfully exchanging with an agent, you are sometimes referred to the web cell to which you have to expose its difficulty by email, with a processing time of more than fifteen days. There are many problems during the validation of online applications, without the reason being specified – apart from this laconic message: "Divergence between the ANC portal and the captured data" – which requires calling the agency. It is also important to note the recurrent impossibility of validating an online request if the email address provided by the user has already been used on another official website, which sometimes requires the creation of a dedicated email address. There are no longer any platform problems between auto-schools and candidates, difficulties in creating an online account, refusal to reuse digital photos as a result of the refusal of the file, cases under investigation for more than forty days or the impossibility of adding missing documents online to a pending file – all of which must be done within the seven-day period imposed for full validation, under penalty of closing the file leading to a zero resumption of the said procedure. What actions does the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, intend to take in order to remedy as quickly as possible all the malfunctions which seriously disrupt our public service, while hindering the mobility of many of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u183	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u184	Member of the European Parliament, those who know Alfred Jarry and his Ubu sometimes say that he could have created some of the software that we are encountering. You describe in fact a situation that many of us may have known. Improvement of service, however, should not be neglected through the next generation of prefectures. This reform aims to modernise, in line with the guidelines of the President of the Republic on the digital transformation of the public service, the processes of issuing titles. It is indeed easier for our fellow citizens to make their demand for titles digitally at home, rather than to go to the open sites in fairly limited numbers in our departments – the Vaucluse, for example, knows that well. Over the past five months, more than 2 million grey card transactions have been completed, more than 1 million exam entries completed and as many permits issued after an Internet application. So yes, the system is improving. And yet what you are saying is completely correct because, as we know, for any new large-scale information system, technical difficulties may arise, and have arisen in this case. Fortunately, they concern a minority of cases; But even as a minority, they are still unacceptable. Problem solving is already well advanced and fully mobilises the teams of the Ministry of the Interior. The initial delays in connection with the NETS site have been significantly reduced, and are expected to ease further with the creation of a more ergonomic site. Technical deficiencies were also noted in the teletransmission procedures for applications; You mentioned a few of them. This must of course be rectified because, even if corrective measures have been taken quickly, no one here can underestimate the consequences for professionals as well as for individuals, in particular the lengthening of the deadlines for obtaining these documents. You also mentioned the difficulty for some users in obtaining information or in finalising their request; Again, we must act. The Citizen Contact Centre of the NANT allows you to answer questions from users by telephone or e-mail; there are dedicated lines. Since you mentioned the waiting time – long if not endless – I would point out that we have increased the number of teleadvisors from 48 at the beginning of 2017 to 175 at the beginning of 2018. For those who do not have the possibility to use the Internet at home – some French people are out of technology, either because of lack of hardware or lack of connection – 305 digital points have been installed in prefectures and sub-prefectures. All of these measures reflect the commitment of the Government – which shares the legitimate demands you express in your question – to ensure quality service throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u185	Mr. Adrien Morenas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u186	I take note of all the improvements made by the department and will remain vigilant in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u187	The floor is open to Mr. Philippe Dunoyer, to put his question, No. 227, concerning the return of the Caledonian police officers to the territory of New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u188	As you know, the security situation in New Caledonia is of great concern. Crime has increased by 30 per cent in one year, burglaries by more than 37 per cent, physical violence by 10 per cent, with an unprecedented increase in domestic violence – New Caledonia ranks first or second on the sad national podium. Violence tends to become commonplace, especially among young people: 25 per cent of those involved in general delinquency are minors. In view of these alarming figures and the wave of exasperation of the inhabitants accompanying them, further reinforcements of security personnel are expected. They are necessary, and it is urgent to send them. The subject is being discussed at this very moment in Matignon, where the 17th Committee of Signatories is being held. Of course, I share the objective set out by the Minister of the Interior to create a tailor-made police force that is fully aware of its territory and the expectations of its citizens. Nor do I forget that the choice to retain some of Nouméa's neighbourhoods in the first list of "reconquer republican territories" leads to the arrival, by the end of 2018, of about 20 police officers in reinforcement. However, I would like to recall that, out of some 40 police officers from New Caledonia who are currently stationed in the metropolitan area and who wish to return to New Caledonia, some 15 fully meet the conditions for their return. In the context of a worrying upsurge in general crime, the rapid return of these experienced police officers, fully aware of the human and social specificities of the local Caledonian context from which they themselves came, would contribute to the effective reinforcement of the existing workforce. In view of the security reinforcements announced on 8 March by the High Commissioner of the Republic, does the Government intend to give priority to the Caledonian police officers who request to return to serve the State on their island?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u190	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u191	Mr Dunoyer, you have rightly referred to the Committee of the Signatories, which is meeting today to discuss various issues; The security situation in New Caledonia demands the continued mobilization of the Government. You also know that the Blue Book on Overseas Affairs, which will be delivered in May to the President of the Republic, will mark an important step in the relations between the State and overseas countries and will bear witness to the attention we have given to this issue. You have referred to figures that no one is contesting here and that show that New Caledonia is facing major security challenges. Although commitments have been made in terms of staffing and are beginning to produce their effects, the quality and experience of the women and men mobilized in that territory remains an issue. The reinforcements announced, notably in the framework of the overseas security plan of June 2016, launched by the previous government, have materialized. We are continuing the effort: by the end of 2015, 539 agents were mobilized in New Caledonia; they are today 563 and, as expected – by you, Mister, but also by the population – by the end of August 2018, they will be 573; By the end of the year, the figure will increase further. It was important that the issue of security in New Caledonia should be dealt with as elsewhere, but the specificities of that territory should also be taken into account. As you recalled, in the first wave of September 2018, there will be a republican reconquest district in Nouméa, in the Pierre-Lenquette, Montravel and Tindu neighbourhoods. It is essential to rehabilitate the place of our security forces and restore the Republican presence. The republican reconquest districts represent an enhanced decline of the daily security police in certain territories particularly confronted with insecurity and trafficking. I come more directly to your question, which concerns officials from New Caledonia. It is important to take into account both the personal choice of agents who want to return to the lands that have seen them born, but also the effectiveness that knowledge of a territory and its cultures – of which we know the importance in New Caledonia – enhances. First of all, the Ministry of the Interior is naturally concerned to encourage, as far as possible and in accordance with the rules, the return of agents whose centre of material and moral interests is overseas. For assignments in New Caledonia, the posts are open to the multi-purpose movement of transfer under the same conditions as for the other departments of metropolis and overseas departments and communities, but the selection of the staff selected is obviously a priority in favour of persons from New Caledonia, on the condition, of course, that they fulfil the statutory conditions necessary to obtain a transfer. On the other hand, it should be noted that the so-called "profiled" movement of transfer, that is to say, for specialized profiles – territorial intelligence, judicial police officers – is now confronted with the weakness of the pool, which sometimes leads us to assign non-original agents from New Caledonia, even if, again, priority is given to New Caledonians if possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u192	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u193	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your answer and for the very encouraging prospects that it suggests. Your comments confirm the number of officers, including those from New Caledonia, who have come to strengthen the Nouméa police station. I am aware of the statutory and professional difficulties and the need to meet the preconditions for such returns, but I note that when these conditions are met, once a movement is planned and the Joint Administrative Committees can meet, priority will be given to those who wish to return to their island. Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u194	The next speaker is Mr Maurice Leroy, who has raised his question, No. 225, concerning teachers' hours in private agricultural education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u195	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, I thank you for responding in the absence of the Minister for Agriculture. The strength of agricultural education is interdisciplinarity and teamwork. It is a difficult job, which is not paid in proportion. That is why I would like to appeal to the Government this morning to draw its kind attention to the professional situation of teachers in the 200 private agricultural schools, which are unfortunately never mentioned. The young people trained in this field are all certain – and we are delighted for them – to find a job at the end of their training, especially in our rural areas. It would therefore be good and right, Mr. Secretary of State, for the Minister of Agriculture to accept union representatives from private agricultural education. This has been done in the past, and it should continue to be done. Vocational training and apprenticeships need young teachers for agricultural education. There is an urgent need to work to ensure the absorption of category III of private agricultural education; To this end, the grouping should be blocked so that it can be carried out only by means of competitions, as well as for teaching assistants in national education. Proposals are made to change the hourly amplitude over four consecutive weeks and to better allocate working time throughout the school year. Indeed, Mr. Secretary of State, the teacher's work becomes more complex with regard to educational reforms and evaluation, and requires important research in view of the diversity of audiences in agricultural education. Since vocational education is the majority, it must be part of the territories and therefore involves the implementation of educational measures in relation to the professional environment. In the end, this change in magnitude clearly meets the objective of improving the quality of the teaching service. Changing the hourly amplitude does not distort Article 29 of Decree No 89-406 of 20 June 1989, nor does it call into question the principle of modulation of working time. This proposal to change the hourly amplitude, which allows for a better distribution of working time within the year, is a consensus in the profession. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me when the implementing decree allowing the implementation of this proposal will be published?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u197	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u198	Mr Leroy, it is pointless for me to mention the Loir-et-Cher, but the elected one that I was, chairman of the board of directors of a public agricultural educational institution, is totally convinced by your comments on the quality and ambition of the training provided in these establishments, as well as on the requirement of proximity to which they must satisfy. Yet you, like me – and others – know the particularities of agricultural education and faculty management, especially with regard to the modulation of working time. These questions are organized by the Decree of 20 June 1989, which allows, within specific limits, to adapt and vary the workload from week to week depending on the local educational organization and the establishment project. It is true that section 29 imposes a framework that may seem too strict, and private teachers who have been working full-time for many years have been seeking a change that would reduce by half the currently permitted weekly range. For a teacher whose weekly duty is set at 6 p.m., modulation can be between 20.25 and 13.5 hours, compared to 22.5 hours and 9 hours today. This scheme will improve the working conditions of teachers and prepare their courses, and will therefore benefit both students and 4900 teachers in private agricultural education under contract, without calling into question the annuality of working time, which is so important for the overall organisation of schools. [[Smile]] I could have just given you a precise answer to your specific answer, but I would have been angry if I had answered you too shortly. The amendment of the decree, proposed by the Minister of Agriculture, is under consideration by the Council of State; If this results in a favourable response – which we hope – the decree will be immediately amended and applicable for the next school year in all private agricultural establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u199	Mr Maurice Leroy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u200	The brevity of my answer will try to match the elegance of the Secretary of State. I have been in your place in this exercise and I know how difficult it is, sometimes even perilous. Thank you very much because you have not only annoyed the note that has been sent to you, as is often the case. As you yourself are a true elected candidate, you know how important agricultural education is in our country. I say again: all trained young people leave with a job. I welcome your very concrete response, on behalf of the Government, for these institutions, for teachers and for young people. It would be good if this decree were published as soon as possible after the advice of the Council of State. Again, thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u201	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor to put her question, No 224, on second chance schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u202	The Government has embarked on an in-depth reform of vocational training and apprenticeship, one of the main objectives of which is to combat mass unemployment, which affects some of the younger French. More than 1.3 million of them are unemployed and without qualifications: they are marginalized and often in situations of great insecurity. The exclusion of more than one million young people from the labour market, beyond its economic repercussions, raises the question of social cohesion, because a healthy country is a country that offers opportunities and meaning to its youth. The Government has announced a skills-based investment programme to train one million low-skilled jobseekers and one million young people away from work in five years. This is a considerable and necessary effort that I would like to welcome. I would like to draw your attention to the potential place of second chance schools in this investment programme. These schools have been set up for young people who have dropped out of school. Every year in France, an average of 130,000 young people leave the school system without a diploma. Second chance schools welcome them, without requiring any qualification or diploma, from 18 to 25 years old, sometimes even from 16 years old, and help them build a project through the alternation of individual and collective training and in-company internships. They also help to combat disenchantment by giving young people a place, a usefulness in society. These schools have proved their effectiveness, with numbers in support, in the reintegration into employment and social life. Thus, in Val-d'Oise – a department where I am elected – where the second chance school scheme has been deployed, among other things thanks to the work of Jean-Christophe Poulet, Mayor of Bessancourt, 500 trainees and 100 students in a drop-out situation are welcomed each year, and 70% of trainees find a job or a diploma at the end of their career. Tomorrow, two sites will be created in Beaumont and Écouen as part of a digital platform. In Franconville, in the fourth electoral district of Val-d'Oise, the unemployment rate for young people aged 15 to 24 is 26.65 per cent, according to the latest study conducted by the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, INSEE. The idea of setting up a second chance school in this city is therefore most relevant. It will provide new opportunities for its young people, bring trainees closer to the sites. It will also benefit the local economy, through training tailored to the professions in the employment pool, sponsored by the major brands present in Franconville and throughout the electoral district. I would therefore like to know what place the Government intends to give to the second chance school scheme, and what resources will be allocated to their deployment, particularly in Franconville, in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u203	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u204	Madam Member, the Government shares the observation that you have made: the unemployment rate for qualified persons is 6 per cent, while the unemployment rate for unskilled persons is 18 per cent. There are large disparities between territories, the reasons for which we know, including the lack of training. You mentioned the youth unemployment rate in Franconville, which is 26.6%: we know that in other parts of Ile-de-France, the figures are even more worrying. Faced with this, the Government has chosen not to limit integration policies to short-term precarious jobs – I say that without the intention of reopening the debate on assisted jobs. Our goal is sustainable employment, which requires qualification. This requires good tools, but it also requires means. That is why almost EUR 15 billion will be invested in skills over the five-year period, thanks to the competence investment plan. You know that, but I want to say again: this is an unprecedented plan in terms of access to qualifying and certifying training, especially for young people. We must act together to achieve our goal of training and accompanying, by 2022, one million low-skilled jobseekers and one million young people, especially in early school. You asked the Government about second chance schools. You are right: this is one of the solutions that must be supported. The visit of the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, to one of these schools at the end of last year only confirmed this conviction, which must bring us together. You have mentioned with pride the two new sites that will see the light of day in Val-d'Oise: this is an example that must be followed. Second chance schools, spread over 124 sites and schools throughout France, support 15,000 young people towards employment. They have shown their usefulness: that is why the State's contribution to second chance schools was renewed in 2018. This is also why the Skills Investment Plan will support the development of these schools, in conjunction with the regions, to provide sustainable solutions for our young people. I will not comment on the project that you have mentioned, but I have no doubt, given its quality and your commitment, that it can succeed – in any case we all wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u205	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u206	I thank you very much, Secretary of State, for this satisfactory response, which represents a real signal to the people who need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u207	Mr Alexis Corbière, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 197, concerning private non-contracted schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u208	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of National Education to the development, which I would call exponential, of private out-of-contract schools in our country. Over the past ten years, more than one public school has been closed every day; But since 2014, the number of private schools has been growing. This growth particularly benefits the private sector out of contract: at the start of 2017, private education earned 7,000 pupils, of which no less than 5000 for the private sector out of contract, compared to the start of 2016. Over the past three years, the number of out-of-contract private schools has increased by an average of 15 per cent every school year. This acceleration is particularly true in my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, which has the largest population of young people under the age of 15 in Île-de-France. While between 1998 and 2013, over a period of fifteen years, the department saw eleven such schools open, over the last five years, from 2014 to 2018, no fewer than thirteen out-of-contract schools opened. The exponential development of these schools in Seine-Saint-Denis alarms me, because we can see there the consequence of the state's disinvestment in school matters in this particular territory. I would like to say that I am also concerned that some of these establishments, belonging to the Suburban Hope network, received public funding in 2017 through grants from several regional councils. I therefore ask the Minister of Education what he intends to do to stop the haemorrhage of students from the public to the private sector, particularly out of contract. I would suggest that a study be carried out to determine whether the education provided in these out-of-contract schools corresponds to the educational expectations set out in article L. 122-1-1 of the Education Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u209	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u210	Mr Corbière, you are presenting a reality: the significant increase in the number of children attending private schools, and in particular in institutions that are not linked to the public service of national education. It is a reality everywhere in France, including in Seine-Saint-Denis. As you said, private out-of-contract education increased by 5,000 students at the last school year. I would point out that this increase concerns only schools: in non-contracted colleges and lycées, the number of pupils has on the contrary decreased by 800 students – but that does not remove the trend that you have described. Overall, students enrolled in out-of-contract educational institutions increased from 69000 in September 2016 to 73500 in September 2017, an increase of 4,500 students. In Seine-Saint-Denis, you evoke an acceleration of the increase in the number of establishments. Again, you are right: the number of students attending out-of-contract schools in this department increased from 1200 in September 2016 to 2100 in September 2017, an increase of 900 students. This is a very strong progression. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Prime Minister announced, as part of the plan to combat radicalisation, that the state would pay more attention to non-contract education. Tomorrow, you will consider Senator Françoise Gatel's bill to simplify and better regulate the opening of private non-contracted institutions: it will be an opportunity for the Minister of National Education to complete my response. Finally, honourable Member, you are asking the Minister of National Education about the institutions of the suburban Espérance network. From a pedagogical point of view, first of all, the Minister of National Education confirms to you that the academic authorities exercise the same vigilance with regard to each of the 16 institutions of this foundation as with regard to any non-contractual institution. The appropriate sanctions will be applied against the institutions in which persistent violations of the right to education would be found, this right being broader than the only ones expected from the common basis, which you mentioned, and which are defined in article L. 122-1-1 of the Education Code. From a financial point of view, then, you will agree that the Minister of Education is not legally competent to determine the legality of subsidies granted by local authorities: elected officials and taxpayers are best able to refer these issues to the administrative judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u211	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u212	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that answer. As you have said, the debate will take place tomorrow in our Chamber: I will take this opportunity to remind the Minister of National Education of the special support which he himself gave, before being appointed to the Government, to the Suburb Hope network. I don't think that's a good thing: I'll have an opportunity to explain it to myself. I am glad – even though I already knew – that you are aware of this fundamental problem, which leads to a strong avoidance of public institutions in my department. However, since our services anticipate this avoidance, the resources are not made available to the institutions. I believe that we should, on the contrary, promote our public schools, which are the only schools in the Republic where our children, regardless of their social origin, can live together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u213	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor to put her question, No 207, on the teaching of Catalan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u214	My question indeed concerns the teaching of regional languages. As a member of the first riding of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, I am elected from the city of Pau, where the Hestiv'的c festival is held every year, in tribute to the accents of the South and the Occitan culture. [[Smile]] In my area, we're still talking about the Bearnais. I am not a specialist and, in order not to frustrate anyone, I add that some believe that we are talking about gascon instead. Still others argue that we do not talk about each other, but rather about the Occitan. The elders of the country are even convinced that they speak another language, especially in politics: that of the implied. One thing is certain: Béarn welcomes a dynamic network of associative schools by immersion, under contract, so that our regional language remains alive. These schools are called calandretas. They have benefited from the renewal of their contracts helped to ensure the 2017-2018 school year: I can only thank you, in this regard, for finally ensuring equal treatment between the calandretas schools of New Aquitaine and those of the Diwan network in Brittany. At the time, I asked the Minister of National Education a question about this. But at my home, and probably elsewhere, there are still concerns for the September 2018 re-entry. Indeed, as part of the overhaul of the aided contract scheme, the calandretas federation is concerned about job losses. In the end, this situation raises the question of the financing and status of immersion schools, which are also called "ikastolas" in the Basque part of my department. What does the Minister of National Education propose to address this issue as soon as next year?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u215	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u216	Madam Member, I agree with you on the importance of regional languages and cultures: we may have the opportunity, in this Chamber, to come back to the question of the ratification of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, without seeing any of the implication that some Members thought were discerning, and by which they justified the fear that this text inspired them. Regional languages and cultures belong to the French heritage: they must be proud, defended and promoted. The State must of course participate in the dissemination of these languages and cultures, in partnership with local and regional authorities, in particular through specific conventions. In the Bordeaux Academy there have been conventions concerning the teaching of Basque and Occitan; the same is true in the academies of Rennes and Nantes about the teaching of Breton – you made the comparison yourself. It is important, and the Minister of National Education has asked me, to provide you here with guarantees to remove your concern about the status or co-financing of calandretas and ikastolas by recalling that there is no competition with the institutions of the other regional language networks. All these networks are federated at national level by the Institut supérieur des langues de la République française, which aims to harmonize the demands of schools which practice regional language teaching by immersion, regardless of that language. For the 2018 school year in private institutions, the distribution of resources is currently under way. It will of course be done within the framework of the budget for 2018, voted by Parliament, and which does not provide for job creation for all private education under contract. Consequently, there will be changes in relation to redeployments of resources, including between academies, which will allow posts to be allocated to establishments with the most demographically tense situation, and especially if the interests of the public service so warrant. Generally speaking, all the signed conventions promoting the development of regional languages are linked with the financial laws and the means by which they can be allocated to the various private education networks. I would nevertheless like to point out to you, Madam Member, that, since 2009, the previous governments have decided to allocate forty-three full-time equivalents for the calandretas schools, an additional average of more than five posts each year, with the ikastolas filled at a very comparable rate since they obtained forty posts over the same period. This is a significant effort which allows these networks to display a very satisfactory rate of supervision today. Such an effort corresponds to the appetite and quality of the offer produced in your territory. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Minister of National Education does not leave the initiative for the teaching of these languages to the private sector alone: for example, each rector adopts a policy for the development of the teaching of regional languages and cultures in his academy if it is concerned. This policy is presented in advance to the Academic Council for Regional Languages, in which local authorities participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u217	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u218	I thank the Secretary of State and, of course, whether it is for the ikastolas in the Basque Country or the calandretas in the Béarn, I will be vigilant, and we will of course again, if necessary, ask the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u219	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1167.u220	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the draft law on military programming for the years 2019 to 2025; Discussion of the proposal for a law transposing the European Directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The meeting is adjourned.
