ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law, by Mr Jean-Carles Grelier and others, on the direction for the future of health (No 1229, 1270).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u2	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Carles Grelier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, do you hear, as I hear, the fears, concerns and anguish of the French people for their health and that of their loved ones? Do you hear, as I understand it, the exhaustion of health professionals, both in the city and in the hospital? Do you hear, as I hear, the fear of patients who have been hebed by waiting for long hours lying on the stretcher of an emergency corridor? Behind each of these concerns, each of these anxieties, each of these fears, there is a strong demand for an ambitious response that will bring a future and hope for our health care system. Today, our fellow citizens expect us to respond fairly, quickly and, above all, effectively, to a response that is free of postures and transcends divisions, because, in health matters, majorities and minorities, dogmas and the quarrels of elected officials must be wiped out in the face of the correctness and greatness of the mission entrusted to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u5	The failure of our health care system as a whole is patent. This finding is, moreover, unanimously shared on these benches. Our health care system is failing not only in the hospital, but also in the city. The President of the Republic was right to invite us collectively and ecumenically, at the time of the announcement of the Ma Santé 2022 plan, to change our paradigm health system. But even before this paradigm shift, it is our gaze on our health care system that must change and evolve. We must now look at health professionals in our territories in their complementarity. We must have a horizontal and collaborative approach to the organization of our health care system. But all this will be of no use if we keep a budget reading and ultimately mortiferous accounting. The time when we were reducing the numerus clausus, convinced that limiting the number of practitioners would reduce the deficit in health insurance, is not completely over. It is always this logic which prevails and which, year after year, without worrying about the consequences, tries to bring our health system into the funnel of budgetary orthodoxy. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I dare to say this before you: if we do not want to change anything with regard to the financing of our health care system, we will eventually kill it in good health. Its budget will certainly end in balance, but the patient will be dead and thus unable to meet the expectations of an aging and increasingly demanding population in terms of health. We must rebuild it without abolishing anything from the spirit of universality and solidarity that the founders of social security carried, without losing anything from the attachment to the values that underlie our republican pact. We must find and draw from it the same concern for greatness, the same will to put the future in perspective and to let our vision of France carry as far as possible. Health is our common good. She's our last wealth of men. It is our superior principle and must be our primary requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u7	We therefore need to set a new course, to inject new energy. We must preserve the legacy of the struggles of the past century, filled with justice and equality, because living long and healthy is the first of justice and the greatest equality. Without deviating from the articles of this bill, I would like to outline in front of you the great principles of this horizon to be built and first of all to say that man must be on all sides and for all reasons the reason for our struggles. The individual, the patient must be at the heart of the system with as a major idea and for any policy that health is built for and from him. Building an ambitious health policy means accepting that yesterday's patients are no longer those of today, that is accepting that health professionals change as new demands and technological advances take shape. It was in the need to build a relationship of trust with health professionals that this bill drew its sap. It is through the objective of transversality and horizontality that it is moved, with the ardent desire to put the patient back at the heart of the system, to put the individual at the heart of the concerns, at the centre of the health cuts, of accounting and budgetary arbitrations. The health villages we call for have no other objective than to create networks between these professionals, which are not based on the provision of care but on the demand for care, where individuals reside, to provide them with care as quickly and as close to home, because this proximity is a strong demand of patients and it also covers a real dimension of spatial planning, of equal access to health, both in the city and in the countryside. Innovation or just return of things, health villages involve local communities, in addition to all the health actors in a territory, without exclusive. It is only fair to involve local elected officials who for more than a decade, in the absence of a response from the State, have tried to solve the problems of medical demography. Yes, it is the mayors who, most often, received these patients in disinherence when their family doctor made the legitimate decision to retire. Yes, it was the mayors who sometimes sacrificed investment and operating budgets to try to recruit new doctors, new health professionals, while the state provided only small subsidies and sometimes administrative complications. Local authorities must remain at the heart of the territorial health organization, because they have a full place alongside health professionals, but not in their place, alongside the State, but not in its place. France can no longer remain away from a true health policy that takes into account both curative and caregiving, but also takes the right measure of an ambitious, governed and funded policy of prevention and health education. It is at school that health education actions will have to be implemented, because it is from an early age that it is possible to correct behaviours that are known to become unquestionably serious or chronic pathologies. It is therefore no longer desirable for teachers to be sensitized and trained in the need for health education. Sports educators who take care of our children on out-of-school or out-of-school time must also be sensitized and trained to the societal imperative of health education. In order to achieve this, there is an urgent need to decompartmentalize: from PMI to school medicine, to occupational medicine, where treating doctors, all health professionals involved in preventive matters must maintain a permanent dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, this text does not claim to be in the evening or to be in the umpteenth revolution of our health system. It detects malfunctions; It takes note of the progress generated by the Government's action; it takes account of blockages, legal and regulatory uncertainties. He finally calls for a new breath, a new look. How many health professionals have I met who have confessed to me that I have no choice but to divert the standards and rules imposed on them from above, decided from afar, to be able to care for their patients, to be able to render a quality medical service? How many of them said to me, paraphrasing a famous President of the Republic: "Leave us peace! » That we cease to standardize, regulate, enact, and write the law of health. How many circulars are found every day in the office of the directors of clinics and hospitals, who will never be implemented because they are not useful and effective? From these findings, which are confined to the cry of alarm, I have become convinced that our health care system must be simplified, modernized, ventilated and must be done quickly. Only these requirements will truly allow health to become more horizontal and collaborative than it is today. The thousands of healthcare professionals in France, from all disciplines, have been well trained and graduated. Multidisciplinarity is a wealth that needs to be given a place of choice in both the hospital and outpatient settings. Even if we share the findings and solutions, your majority will likely insist on rejecting this bill, with the sole reason for the upcoming review of the social security funding plan – PLFSS – and the implementation of the Ma Santé 2022 plan in the course of 2019. As we make prevention a priority, adding to your plan the shared need for governance and leadership, you will reject this text! As we, like you, make territorial health professional communities – CPTS – the cornerstone of the territorial health organization, you will reject this text! As we seek, like you, by all means, to simplify procedures, to facilitate exercises, you will reject this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u8	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Once they're enlightened, they'll vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u9	All the eloquence, all the voices of this assembly will not be enough to reassure the French of our common will to rebuild our health system. Of course, we will still have to undergo some cold winds, some sprays of foam, but we can send our compatriots today the strong signal of a shared awareness, that of a collective will, that of a renewed ambition. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is under these conditions, and under these conditions only, that we can say and affirm together that there is still a future for health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u10	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u11	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the proposal for a law on the future of health which Jean-Carles Grelier has just presented. I thank you for addressing a topic that is the foundation of my ministry's work and is particularly close to my heart, first of all as a minister, since it is in this capacity that I am speaking to you, but also, of course, as a physician who has worked for a long time. You rightly draw our attention to the need to adapt our system both to the epidemiological developments in our country and to the aspirations of users and health professionals. As you know, the Government attaches particular importance to health, which is one of the pillars of our social Republic and therefore a major societal challenge for our citizens. There are many challenges that need to be addressed today, and it is for multiple reasons that are related to population aging, the development of chronic diseases, the profound and rapid change in techniques and practices that we have wanted to present the My Health 2022 plan. It also aims to address an increasingly important issue, the geographic gap in access to care. To this end, as of December 2017, I agreed on the "National Health Strategy 2018-2022", which is based on the analysis prepared by the High Council for Public Health on the state of population health, its main determinants, as well as possible objectives and actions. Its first strong axis is prevention. It is set out in 25 flagship measures in the Prevention Priority Plan we presented in February 2018, for a total investment of 400 million euros. I am as convinced as you are that it is essential to put in place a health promotion policy that includes prevention, in all settings and throughout life. This involves valuing health-friendly behaviours, which can only reduce risk factors that lead to considerable social costs – 20 billion euros for obesity, 15 billion euros for alcohol, 26 billion euros for tobacco. The challenge is to strengthen the psychosocial skills of individuals through health education and to create an incentive environment through taxation in particular. It also aims to prevent entry into addictive practices – tobacco, alcohol, licit and illegal psychoactive substances, substance-free addictions – and to reduce their prevalence and harmful consequences. Finally, prevention requires the promotion of healthy eating and physical activity. Many scientific studies have highlighted the role of nutrition, both as a protective factor and as a risk factor, in many chronic diseases, including cardiovascular diseases and cancers, which are the two leading causes of mortality in France. The compulsory vaccination of children under two years of age against eleven diseases, which I wanted in January 2018, is part of these major preventive actions. Prevention is also the detection of certain pathologies. In March 2018, I announced that we would intensify and strengthen the detection of hepatitis C and propose a third screening, that of cervical cancer, after those of breast and colon cancers. To succeed collectively this national health strategy, which now forms the framework for health policy in France, we need to go further. That is why the President of the Republic expressed his determination on 18 September 2018 by presenting the "Strategy for the transformation of the health system", the work of which was announced by the Prime Minister in February 2018. For the first time in several decades, this ambitious roadmap, "Ma santé 2022", gives a collective course and allows us to imagine how we want to be treated by 2022 by proposing a comprehensive approach to the health system rather than sectoral, by no longer opposing the city and the hospital, the public and the private or health professionals between them. As you rightly say, "any reflection on health must be built from each individual and from where he resides." I fully agree with this remark, which satisfies common sense as well as the requirement for a more efficient, fairer and universal system. This is why the strategy for transforming the health system focuses on a territorial approach, structures community-based and first-recourse medicine to improve the quality of care for all patients, wherever they may be, focusing on proximity and gradation of care. You also point out that "health must become more horizontal and collaborative than it is today." It is precisely in this spirit that the Government is committed to creating a patient care collective by 2022. To achieve this priority objective, our will is to deploy over the whole territory 1000 CPTS and 2000 co-ordinated operating structures, be they multi-professional health homes or health centres. This will be a real contract between health professionals and the people of their territory. It is in this spirit, too, that I wish to develop community hospitals. We intend to label it between 500 and 600, which will have to play a fundamental role in the cooperation with the city professionals, the home hospital services and the medical and social services of their territory. Your proposals also stress the need to adapt the professions and training of health workers to the health challenges of tomorrow. As you know, this concern is also mine. Thus, regarding the career revolution, the recognition of nurses in advanced practices, IPA, and the commitment to extend it to other areas of intervention, including psychiatry as early as 2019, already bear witness to our concern to promote skills and collaborative forms of professional practice. Tomorrow, the creation of a new profession of medical assistant will give doctors more time to devote themselves fully to care and prevention, as long as they are part of a collective exercise. The medical assistant, a new and important figure in the French health landscape, will also help the patient's journey. The objective of the quinquennium is to deploy at least 4000, including 1000 next year. As far as training is concerned, several structural and structural projects will be undertaken, including the abolition of the numerus clausus and the overhaul of the first cycles of health studies. The aim of this reform is to promote bridges and open up career paths. It is not only a question of not seeing beautiful vocations broken on multiple-choice questionnaires – QCM – but also of allowing a diversification of the profiles of practitioners of tomorrow. These reforms also reflect the Government's commitment to putting prevention at the heart of its efforts. "One apple a day keeps the doctor away" teaches us a saying; "as long as it's a fair goal," Churchill added. A fair goal in terms of prevention is to integrate prevention into the training of future health professionals. Thus, since the beginning of September 2018, in accordance with the presidential commitment, 47,000 health students will have to perform a three-month health service as part of their training curriculum. They will work with the youngest and most vulnerable, especially in schools and universities, to promote healthy behaviours. Finally, as you observe, the hospital's funding arrangements have reached their limits; The system must find a second breath. Today we need to further diversify funding methods to promote, among other things, the quality and relevance of care, as well as the funding extended to the journey and not confined to the act alone. The work ahead is numerous, ambitious, but it is absolutely essential to meet the legitimate expectations of our citizens in a fair, consistent and effective manner. To drive the transformation of our health system, the Government has already included a number of measures in the PLFSS for 2019, and it will shortly be carrying out a bill whose timetable should be specified in the next few weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen, although I share certain objectives, I cannot support your bill today, both inappropriate and, for some of its purposes, already satisfied with what the Government is proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u12	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Pierre Door spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Jean-Carles Grelier is presenting today, in agreement with the Group of the European People's Party and within the framework of our parliamentary niche, a proposal for a law which proposes guidelines for the future of our health system. Health is undoubtedly one of the most valuable assets of each of our fellow citizens. Our responsibility, therefore, as legislator, is to guarantee to everyone the three principles on which social security in France has been based since 1945, namely equal access to care, the quality of care provided and solidarity. Several requirements stem from these three principles. First, our care system must be able to modernise, in particular to adapt to changes in demand for care or to medical progress. Second, to provide everyone with access to effective, yet costly, treatments, it is essential that the organization of our health care system be efficient. Just two years ago, our group had already introduced, here, a bill entitled "For the future of our health care system". It was rejected by the then socialist government and by your predecessor, the minister. We already mentioned the necessary guidelines: the groups of doctors in CPTS or in university outpatient centres – CAU; The reform of medical studies, withclassifying tests and a regionalised numberrus; Finally, a new approach to health prevention. All these guidelines are reflected in the draft law presented by our rapporteur. It must be noted that the French health care system is not up to the challenges we face. I would like to point out that this bill, which proposes responses to these challenges, is the result of an important collaborative effort with all the players in our health care system. I would add, Madam Minister, that our rapporteur had begun this work long before the statements of the Government and the President of the Republic, since this bill was tabled in August. Don't come here to tell us that she's no longer of any interest! I know, alas, that you will reject it in its entirety, as you did in committee. Obviously, we do not agree on everything, but if we do not exactly share the therapeutic strategy, we can at least share the diagnosis. Let us agree that our citizens are aware that they enjoy a high level of quality of care. However, we all know that territorial and social inequalities persist, that our health system is rather poorly coordinated between the public and the private sector, and that the path of care is often opaque for our citizens and for patients. Finally, while the health insurance deficit has narrowed well, the debt of the social debt amortisation fund – CADES – remains at a high level, at nearly EUR 120 billion. Health care professionals have a deep malaise. First, doctors feel that they are not doing the job for which they were trained. Administrative tasks are placed on them, under the technocratic control of regional health agencies and health insurance. It is for these reasons that we tabled this bill, with twenty-eight sections. A new health situation is needed. It is not a question of making an umpteenth reform, but of drawing conclusions and drawing broad lines. We can make medicine the engine of a new growth, a new innovation, a new way of caring for patients. We want to get ourselves – at last! – tools for a true policy of prevention and public health. Improving the management of chronic diseases is the major challenge facing our health care system. This implies a profound transformation of our system, which has been built around the management of acute care, to the detriment of the prevention and management of long-term diseases. I know, Madam Minister, that you are fully in line with this analysis and that you consider prevention to be the poor parent of health policies in France. We must make progress to enable our citizens to age in good health, as our rapporteur has pointed out. He gave an excellent description of the mechanisms contained in his text, in particular the introduction of a life-long health prevention pathway, which was taken over by the health insurance and the complementary bodies. It is necessary to start from the community service of the attending physician, the liberal doctor, who must be better recognized and better trained, and whose work must be improved. The hospital system must also continue its missions, be strengthened and include the private sector in public service missions. The plan that we set out in this bill is ambitious and based on common sense measures, which are flexible enough to allow for collective or territorial initiatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I know, Madam Minister, that all the proposals that have been brilliantly described by our rapporteur will unfortunately be rejected by the majority, because they come from the opposition. That's unfortunate. Don't be sectarian, ladies and gentlemen! The Republican Group will naturally support this bill, as well as its rapporteur, Jean-Carles Grelier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u14	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today is extremely dense, both in terms of the number of articles it contains and in terms of its ambitions. We would therefore like to pay tribute to our colleague Jean-Carles Grelier for the work he has done, a work of an undeniable and highly documented quality, as evidenced by the numerous hearings conducted with the various actors who make up and make up our health system. We all agree here that our health care system needs to be re-founded. Built on the ordinances of 1945, then on the Order Debré, which modified the training system, this seventy-five-year-old building must be re-founded, because the challenges facing medicine are numerous and diverse, both in the field of research, for example in the field of genetics, and in the modes of exercise. We all share, I repeat, the same observation and the same ambitions. The ambitions of this text are, for some, quite commendable. This is the case, for example, of the provisions in favour of health promotion and education, which are, let us recall, a powerful and unquestionable lever to combat the "inequalities of destiny" that arise from an early age – in the words of the President of the Republic. As such, the desire to strengthen the training of future health professionals by creating modules "Prevention and health education" in the various curricula – medical, odontological, pharmaceutical and maieutical – is quite commendable, as the project to make Public Health France the focal point of our policy of health promotion and education by giving it an interministerial character and giving it a budget of its own, or the desire to facilitate the use of health data, particularly in the field of prevention. The use of data appears to be an indispensable tool, both for implementing targeted actions and for assessing the effectiveness of our public health policy, since evaluation is one of the weak points of our health system, as the President of the Republic pointed out in the presentation of the "My Health 2022" plan. However, there are also some weaknesses in this text: I am thinking in particular of the difficulties of implementing certain measures or of telescoping with existing devices, which still need to be proven. Transforming our health system from a compartmentalized and curative system to a more preventive and coordinated system is one of the priorities to which this majority is deeply attached. Indeed, many of the initiatives recently presented and implemented are in this direction. For example, last month's strategy to prevent and combat poverty, presented by the President of the Republic, or the "My Health 2022" plan, both of which aim to combat social and territorial inequalities, which have their roots in access to health. The draft law on the financing of social security for 2019, which we will soon begin to examine, declines fifteen flagship measures of the "Priority prevention" plan and devotes significant resources – several billions of euros – to prevention. Finally, let me mention Charlotte Lecocq's parliamentary report on occupational health and the one I had the pleasure of producing with Ericka Bareigts on prevention. Beyond the announcements, this priority is reflected in concrete terms with the structural measures for the transformation of our health system, which were presented two weeks ago by the President of the Republic and the Minister of Solidarity and Health. As such, we consider two measures to be emblematic. The first is the implementation of a national strategy for the deployment of the CPTS, which will be agreed by the end of 2018, with conventional negotiations starting in 2019 to provide a sustainable funding framework for the CPTS. A very interesting debate took place yesterday on this subject, organized by the High Council for Public Health and the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance. The second measure is the integration of preventive and health promotion measures for medical students within the framework of their health service. It must be recognised that much remains to be done in terms of prevention, but we are pleased that the majority has placed this public health priority at the top of the political agenda. It is a cornerstone of the building that we will have to continue to build and build together, and we are pleased that this observation is shared on all of our benches. While the bill put forward by our colleagues is interesting, it does not seem relevant to us in the current context of an in-depth overhaul of entire parts of the health ecosystem. The many projects I have mentioned have just been initiated by the Government and it is still too early to judge their effectiveness. We can therefore legitimately ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to add new provisions aimed at reforming our health system, even though the major reforms put forward by the Government have not yet been translated into concrete terms. We must allow time for the actions taken to prove their worth. In addition to the fact that the agenda seems not to be conducive to the implementation of such a bill, some of the provisions contained in it seem to us to be redundant in relation to the reforms undertaken by the majority – I am thinking in particular of the issues of prevention or access to care. While this bill aims to promote a comprehensive and ambitious prevention policy, we can regret the absence of specific articles dedicated to maternal and child protection – PMI – and to school medicine, two key actors in prevention and health promotion, which are currently in difficulty – we will have the opportunity to address these issues in the coming months. There are also some provisions which seem to make our health system more complex, although it should be simplified. The creation, in Article 13, of health villages that would replace the CPTS, does not seem to us to be a sensible solution for working towards better coordination of health professionals. In France, we have the ability to create new structures, whereas it would be better to build on the existing ones, i.e. the CPTS, and to develop them, if not to link them with local health contracts, so that local communities and elected representatives have their full place in the local health organisation. Our group will make proposals to this effect during the review of the 2019 Social Security Funding Bill, which will begin next week. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we want to underline the ambition of this text, we also want to point out that ambition has a cost. However, this bill does not seem to present the financial guarantees necessary for its proper implementation. As such, we regret the lack of a precise financial assessment of the proposed measures. If this text explores interesting avenues, it does not sufficiently meet the requirements that must be ours to carry out the necessary modernization of the health system. That is why our group, even if it is pleased with this initiative, and happy to see that we are all aware of the need for a reform of the system, will not be able to vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u16	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u17	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are considering this morning, as part of the parliamentary niche of the Republican Group, has an ambitious ambition to reform our system of care in depth. First of all, let me welcome the work of the rapporteur, who here defends a detailed and well-conceived text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u18	An excellent text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u19	This bill is particularly dense and contains no less than twenty-eight articles. Divided into six titles, it presents a panorama of broad reforms of our health system. We share several of the observations made here: the first is the need to take more action on prevention throughout life, whether it is school medicine or occupational health. Health spending accounts for 11.5 per cent of GDP in France, which places us, in terms of per capita health spending, second to the United States in the world. However, prevention expenditure accounts for only 2.4 per cent of this amount. We must succeed in moving from a healing system to a more prevention-based approach. The IDU, Action and Independent Group is very committed to this issue. In reviewing the Work Orders, we had adopted an amendment to make an end-of-care medical examination mandatory for at-risk occupations. We are also in favour of creating a sub-objective related to prevention within the national goal of disease spending. We will have the opportunity to address these issues again during the consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill in the coming weeks. We also share the broader recognition of the great challenges facing our health care system. This is a widely shared diagnosis: our health care system is no longer adapted to current health needs. The French population increased by 20 per cent between 1979 and 2018 and, at the same time, the share of people over 65 years of age increased from 13 to 19 per cent. This ageing of the population results in the continued development of chronic diseases, which are often also polypathologies. This is a real challenge for our health care system, which requires a thorough review of its operation and funding. In particular, there must be a greater emphasis on package pricing, alongside fee-for-service pricing. Our health care system is also characterized by too much partitioned operation between city medicine and hospital, or between private and public. It is essential to review the organisation of the provision of care between city medicine and hospital, to finally implement a coordinated care path. The shared medical record, which would allow for greater efficiency and improvement of the care path, is also still difficult to deploy. Together with the advances in telemedicine, however, it would significantly improve the prevention, quality, continuity and coordinated care among healthcare professionals we need. We are also paying for past political mistakes, including the adoption of a numerus clausus whose level has changed considerably since its creation in 1971. Lowered to a floor level in 1993, it has since been increased, but the shortage of health professionals in city medicine is now a crucial problem and a concern facing an increasing number of our citizens, both in rural and urban areas. The difficulties facing our fellow citizens, who face daily medical deserts, but also health professionals, and our health care system as a whole, are profound, and we must take all the measures necessary to do so. We therefore welcome the initiative and approach of the Republicans Group, and we support some of its many proposals, including the one aimed at granting a statute of limitations to the medical coordinator of residential institutions for the dependent elderly – EHPAD – or the one aimed at providing healthcare professionals with career development and continuous training. But, as has been said, the timetable for consideration of your bill is almost concomitant with the Government's presentation of the "My Health 2022" plan. It seems to us to provide a more appropriate and comprehensive response to the challenges of health system reform. We will, of course, have to judge on the record when we consider the future health bill, but for the time being the proposed measures are in the right direction. I am thinking in particular of the end of the somewhat unfair system of the numerus clausus or of the financial support for the development of medical assistants with liberal doctors, which will free up medical time. This will allow physicians to focus more on care. On these subjects, which must bring us together, we must let all the sensitivities take part in the debate. There is no doubt that your proposals will have their full place in the review of the health bill. We'll come with you. Our group welcomes any parliamentary initiative aimed at putting these key issues on the table, but in this case it will refrain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u20	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to define France's next public health policies. Your proposals, Mr. Grelier, are very varied. Some relate to prevention, others to reform training in health professions, others to access to health in the territories, some to the liberal practice of medicine, but also to innovation and access to health data. Finally, your latest proposals concern the financing of health, in particular the transition from funding to funding for care. For the little story, the famous deed pricing was introduced in 2004 by Jean-François Mattei, MP UMP. Without any provocation, I note that the right recognizes the limits and the need to change this pricing in order to adapt it to current realities. However, it would be imprudent to believe that, with a magic wand, funding to the care path would be the only and only answer, totally satisfactory. Actual pricing remains an appropriate response to specific situations and clearly identified by healthcare professionals. There is no lack of interest in these proposals, I agree with you, particularly those relating to the training of students in health professions, but – let us be clear – many disagreements persist. This is the case with the measures you are advocating to deregulate liberal medicine or health data, which pose the problem of personal data protection and privacy. Most of all, the calendar leaves me puzzled. Why table your proposal for a law on the future of health, just after the announcement, by the Government, of the health plan and just before the consideration, by the National Assembly, of the finance bill for the year 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u22	We didn't choose the date!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u23	Most of your proposals are already announced by the Government, whether they are the path of care, the reform of health studies, preventive policies or the territorial reorganization of health. As such, we will have the opportunity to review many of your proposals in the Social Security Financing Bill in the coming weeks. For all these reasons, Mr Grelier, despite the interest of some of your proposals, the Socialist and related group is not in favour of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u24	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u25	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u26	Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, we have a proposal for a guideline for the future of health. I look forward to such an ambition because, indeed, our health care system needs a new direction, especially if it wants a future. But when we look at this bill, it appears that the proposed measures are, at best, largely inadequate and, at worst, mortiferous. Coordination between private institutions and city professionals, revision of the curriculum in PACES – the first year common to health studies –, exchange of health data between professionals: these measures are very weak. While we need a more democratic, accessible, public and free health system, you are proposing to reorganize the current system, which is in agony. Your proposal for a law is disappointing, because, in the face of medical desertification, scandalously long appointment deadlines, shortages of specialists, you continue to camp on your positions by advocating the introduction of incentives in the underfunded areas of doctors. However, the report by our colleagues Alexandre Freschi and Philippe Vigier demonstrates this: the many incentives of the last few decades have not worked. Better income for doctors settling in medical deserts, tax exemptions, and I pass: all these measures were a failure. One example is particularly eloquent: a 20% increase in the fees of liberal general practitioners working in groups in under-funded areas cost, between 2007 and 2010, more than 63 million euros for a net contribution of only fifty doctors! On the other hand, the regulation of facilities is very effective, as revealed by the Commission of Inquiry into Access to Care, which assessed the effects of the regulation of facilities for pharmacists, midwives, nurses and massage therapists. As a result of the agreement for liberal nurses, the share of facilities in over-funded areas has been reduced in six years from 25% to only 12%. For midwives, this figure has increased from 27% to 10%! What are we waiting for to put in place a selective contracting measure for doctors? Inequities in access to health care are growing, and will worsen in the years to come if we do nothing. The consequences of medical desertification: the number of visits to emergencies has doubled in 20 years! Between 2012 and 2016, access to specialist doctors decreased for 38% of French people in the case of ophthalmologists, 40% for paediatricians and even 59% for gynaecologists. One of our amendments is to limit the freedom of installation to areas with the least medical facilities. You are proposing to upgrade the cost of procedures every year, making care always more expensive, while you should go towards the reimbursement of 100% of prescribed care and go back to the increase in the cost of care and the daily hospital package. Let us remember that six years separate the life expectancy of a worker from that of an executive! According to a BVA poll in April 2018, seven out of ten French people have given up at least once. Of these, 88% are students and young people between the ages of 18 and 24. In the face of this fact, you are not proposing anything, alas, that would make it possible to stem the disaster of private medicine! In the United States, the health care system is mostly private, spending in this sector accounts for 17% of GDP, compared to only 11% in France. Do they live longer? No. Life expectancy is seventy-eight years, compared with eighty-two for the French. Social inequalities in health are even higher, the richest have access to advanced technologies, while millions of poor people are ruining themselves to fight cancer, for example. Privatizing health is both unequal and ineffective! Your bill seems dangerous to us, because as the hospital dies, you propose to take care of some of the care provided by liberal professionals without questioning the excesses of fees. However, as you know, the number of doctors practicing fee overruns is on the rise. According to a June 2016 UFC-Que Choisir report, eight out of ten French citizens around their home have only gynaecologists or ophthalmologists who exceed fees. We will propose two amendments: one to eliminate any fee overruns, and the other to generalize the fee-paying third party. Your bill is incomplete, because you don't say anything about all the highly devalued feminized health professions. Indeed, with equivalent qualifications and responsibility, the pay scale of the feminized health professions – nurses, midwives, caregivers – is surprisingly low compared to other health professions. Speech therapists – with 96% women – are the worst. The gap between their salaries and those of the other professions in the health and social sector with a master's degree is between 3200 and 10,000 euros per year! Finally, your bill does not seem to meet the real challenges, ignoring the major health issues: medical desertification, non-use of care, overpayments, institutional abuse and shareholder control over this sector, the crisis in the public hospital and psychiatric hospitals. To mask this emptiness, your bill speaks to us of prevention. You are right to say that health is not just medicine and that more prevention is needed. Your suggestions on the subject are appealing: setting up health education missions, therapeutic education, screening actions. We share your positions, but because of the dramatic increase in the last forty years, chronic diseases and long-term illnesses, as a result of the over-consumption of salt, sugar, bad fats, it seems to us important that they be the subject of genuine political awareness. Within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry on Industrial Foods, Loïc Prudhomme made strong proposals: to make the Nutri-Score label compulsory, which classifies foods according to their nutritional quality, to strengthen the quality of meals served in hospitals and nursing homes, to impose in bread a maximum threshold of eighteen grams of salt per kilo of flour, etc. Some of its proposals have already been discussed in the House, but unfortunately they have not been adopted. Healthy life expectancy has been decreasing since 2006 and environmental cancers are increasing. You speak to us prevention, but you voted against the inclusion in the law of the release of glyphosate and other dangerous plant protection products. You also voted against the establishment of a buffer zone to partially protect the population from pesticides. Our psychiatric hospitals are not well. Their budget goes even faster each year than that of hospitals, while the number of their patients increased by 29% between 2013 and 2016. France is distinguished by the highest consumption of anxiolytics in the world. François Ruffin made two strong proposals to ensure that occupational exhaustion syndrome is recognized and that psychiatric hospitals are no longer subject to austerity measures. However, in this bill, you are making little progress on mental health. For us, prevention is not a vain word. It even goes beyond environmental issues, testing or education. An unequal society is a source of anxiety and difficulty in caring for itself. Caregivers are at a standstill. Chronic diseases continue to increase. We would have liked to have debated it in this House. We would certainly have voted against it, but the debate would at least have had the merit of being there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u28	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have today taken a decision on the Republicans' proposal for a law on the direction for the future of health as part of their reserved day. This debate is, first of all, an opportunity for us to sound alarms at the face of a health system that is suffering. The tour de France of the hospitals that I have been conducting for nine months, together with the Communist parliamentarians, reveals, at each of the establishments visited, the same observations and expectations on the part of the health care and non-care workers. Above all, they are demanding ways to treat their patients in good conditions. They call for hiring staff to take care of the ever-increasing numbers of people arriving in emergencies and to receive the elderly with dignity in EHPADs. It could have been hoped that the health plan, presented by the Government on 18 September, would mark a change of course. That's not the case. The social security budget for 2019 provides 3.8 billion savings on health insurance, including 1 billion euros for hospitals, after 1.4 billion savings this year. How can we respond to the crisis of the public hospital service in such a fiscal straitjacket? The question of the hospital cannot be summed up, as the Government is doing, by an internal reorganization. Without new resources, the hospital will continue to suffer from chronic underfunding that prevents it from carrying out its public service mission with our fellow citizens. To weaken the hospital system and its territorial presence also means to weaken the health system as a whole. How to attract and retain general practitioners without a technical tray nearby? How can we guarantee rapid quality management without emergency service in every living area? Combined with the absence of public regulation on the installation of doctors, this will inevitably result in a progression of medical deserts. Without a fair and strengthened hospital presence throughout the country, access to care will become more difficult. In addition to this issue of medical demography, there are increasingly serious financial difficulties, which often result in a cessation of care. According to a survey published this week, in my region, the Hauts-de-Frances, patients have to leave their pocket 575 euros each year to treat themselves. Some people sign up for consumer credits to pay the bill to the doctor. According to the same survey, almost one in three French people have given up their health care in the last 12 months, half of whom are due to an overly high remaining burden after repayment of social security and mutual insurance. When we ask our fellow citizens whether they have, in the last 12 months, given up receiving treatment, 30% of them respond in the affirmative. Doctors who are more and more distant from the place of life, care less and less taken care of by social security: this is how the future of our fellow citizens emerges, for lack of new means for social security and the public hospital. I come to the substance of this very dense bill, which deals with many subjects. While the twenty-eight articles before us contain some progress, they do not meet the challenges facing our health care system. We share the consensus measures on the need to develop prevention in our health policies. We also share the desire to highlight human qualities during medical studies, at a time when the numerus clausus hinders the vocations of students. We agree with the measure to create a specialty in hospital medicine and the challenge of activity pricing, even if you participated in its creation in 2004. You know our fight to get the hospital out of the race for activity and it is pleased that our demands inspire our colleagues in the group The Republicans. I also note a series of measures relating to the reform of medical and paramedical studies, on which we can, in part, find ourselves. For the rest, we see strong convergences between the Government's health plan and your proposals: the stated ambition to further increase the fragmentation between the public and the private in order to respond to the dysfunctions of the health system, without calling into question a budgetary framework advocating austerity. With regard to the access to care component, the text encourages the consolidation of health structures at the territorial level, drawing on local hospital groups, which have for several years been tools for restructuring hospital activity. It is also planned to set up health villages to improve the provision of care by encouraging health professionals to work together. Unfortunately, in the absence of new means, and in the context of a shortage of doctors, we may doubt the effectiveness of this type of device. On the other hand, you refuse to consider removing the numerus clausus, preferring to increase the places of internship for medical students in order to encourage them to move towards the liberal sector and underdenses areas. These measures are not commensurate with the problem of medical demography and medical deserts. As in the Government's health plan, these are primarily incentives for the provision of care, but I do not see any provision that can take up the issue of medical deserts. Moreover, this bill does not respond to the urgency of the hospital crisis and the health world that we have been relaying for several months. It does not provide for additional resources for the hospital, but continues with the logic of off-shoring which puts the public health system and private, lucrative institutions in competition. There are no plans to provide additional resources to deal with the emergency crisis or to upgrade the careers of hospital staff and medical interns. Similarly, we may regret that the issue of dependence and EHPADs is dealt with only under the sole aspect of the right to prescription of a coordinating physician. Your bill is for liberal medicine first. A number of measures are in line with this objective, such as the introduction of a measure to upgrade consultation rates by liberal physicians or the provision to provide benefits only to doctors in a French order. You are also planning to create territorial boarding schools to guide liberal medicine students. These measures do not seem to meet the aspirations of physicians who want to work together. We regret, in this regard, that nothing is proposed to encourage the practice of medicine in health centres, as the young doctors who prefer wage-earning to liberal status insist. This bill has at least the merit of putting the questions on the table and allowing us to debate them. However, if we agree on certain points, if we consider in particular that there is an urgent need to act in favour of access to the care of the French, we disapprove of the solutions that you are advocating. Health is a common good that only a major public service can guarantee. It calls for new means, which in the first place implies an end to austerity policies against social security and hospitals. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u30	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, everyone today agrees to make the same observation about the organisation of care in France and the urgency in which we must act. Inequality of access to care between territories and between the French is an evil that no one can accept after so many years of political wandering. It is time to stop thinking that the French will take better care of themselves and that healthcare professionals will save time by adjusting to the margin a system overtaken by the challenges of the 21st century. An ambitious, comprehensive and innovative reform is the key to providing everyone with health tailored to their needs. If we all see this, we do not all measure its completeness. The deep exhaustion of old recipes will not work once again: that is why the majority supports the plan "Ma Santé 2022", for a fundamental reform of our health model, presented by the President of the Republic. This bill highlights the creation of a multi-year plan for prevention and health education. Since it is a national cause, why not propose concrete measures as early as 2019? We do this: the end of total activity pricing, education and prevention tools adapted to each Frenchman or the promotion of prevention actions in city care are just examples. France is now experiencing territorial inequality which is no longer tenable. Only through the massive development of professional health communities will we be able to find a strong territorial network and a collective of professionals who are united and close to the citizens. You propose the creation of new structures for the organization of health professionals: health villages. We want to give a chance to the device created in 2016 that was never taken politically afterwards. We prefer to renovate by pushing initiatives in the right direction. Modes of financing are a major lever of transformation. We are starting to operate it in the PLFSS for 2019, with the switch from T2A – activity pricing – to quality financing. It is also the ambition of "Ma Santé 2022", which aims to make the quality and relevance of care a priority issue, while gradually limiting the share of funding to activity and action. Let us improve the quality of care, develop prevention, increase social measures for the benefit of our weakest citizens. We regret that the bill lacks ambition in this area. Entering into modernity also means taking into consideration all the issues of digital technology and using technology to serve the health of all. Our Jacobine organization allows us to offer French people a comprehensive, accessible and prevention-oriented medical record. The PLFSS for 2019 lays one more brick in dematerialization by strengthening the use of digital and information sharing to improve the quality of support. It is a global subject, which embraces all parts of health and must be treated to the extent of the opportunities it gives us. Not all of these ambitions will be realized without youth. It will not be enough to create new statutes or reform the PACES on the margins: health studies must be opened up and opened up in order to regain the diversity of profiles. Let's end the numerus clausus, expand training and courses, give mobility to students: this is what "My Health 2022" provides. Let's give students a chance, let's give them the ability to make the health care system of tomorrow more open and fairer, so that it can meet the challenges posed by the shortage of doctors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you have pointed out, the rapporteur, this bill does not call for the "big night" but provides for "simplification measures". While only considering certain aspects of public health policy, we oppose a comprehensive, consistent and patient-oriented project. Since 1958, the reform of the organization of our care system has been postponed, so that it does not change as a result of technological innovations and structural changes in society. Do not propose a short-term project, adding to the margin an already outdated system. Let us go further in the framework of the PLFSS, which we will examine next week in committee; Let us go further with the health bill, which we will consider in the first half of next year. Let's go to the end with the "Ma Santé 2002" plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u32	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 September the President of the Republic announced a health plan which was expected and which, on paper, presents undoubtedly important progress. With regard to the complex problem of medical deserts, has everything been put in place to combat the proliferation of these under-medicalized areas? Does the action plan presented by the Minister in September 2017, which is included in full in the health plan, provide the first results? We can doubt that. In 2017, 2.5 million French people lived in a medical desert and 192 areas at risk were identified. However, there were never as many doctors as in 2017, where they were almost 290,000. A strong trend has been observed in recent years: the increase benefits medical specialists, at the expense of generalist medicine, who are being shunned by students. In ten years, from 2007 to 2017, France lost 8% of its generalists. Unfortunately, the family doctor's model has become an image of Epinal. Various measures have been attempted: subsidies and installation aid policies have been deployed, the numerus clausus has been expanded, the status of a territorial practitioner of general medicine has been created, and the territorial occupational health communities have been established. If one has failed in many cases, it is that medicine is practiced today differently: the younger generations refuse the priesthood of the liberal physician, who exercises, alone and without counting his hours, in the office as well as at home. Based on lessons learned from past experiences and hearings of health professionals, this bill envisages the creation of health villages. It is simply a matter of resuming and improving the principle of the CPTS by removing all the brakes observed during these two years of existence. Today, out of 200 projects, only about 20 CPTS have emerged. This is well below the expectations and needs of the field, and because: the CPTS maintains the logic of the stacking of structures and the scattering of human and financial resources, where there is a need for coordination and networking. I would like to mention an innovation in the functioning of these structures: the presence of patient representatives on their board of directors. Not to mention the question of means, the success of the creation of community structures will be measured by its philosophy towards the caring community of the territory: flexibility and debureaucratization, trust and responsibility will have to be the key words. It was in a spirit of decentralization, celebration of proximity and horizontal and multidisciplinary organization that the choice of the name "health village" was established. Finally, the fight against medical deserts will also be won in the field of the development of telemedicine. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, of course, we will support the bill that we are considering today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u34	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u35	Mr rapporteur, while our health care system is one of the best performing in the world, it is now facing new challenges, and your bill puts at the heart of the debate issues that concern us all. Health, however, is not limited to the medical field: that is the point I would like to make. You are devoting a chapter to the reform of paramedical studies, which, surprisingly, is quite familiar to me since it is part of the direction desired and carried out by our health strategy. You are recommending, Mr rapporteur, the creation of an educational conference, in order to make training courses coherent by encouraging exchanges between healthcare professionals. That is the direction we have been giving to our work for almost a year now. Given the current challenges of population ageing, the development of chronic diseases and the persistence of territorial inequalities in access to care, we have naturally noted that the quality of our health system can only be based on cooperation between different professionals. This means promoting cross-cuttingity through common training times and the pooling of teachings – we have initiated this policy – and bringing the paramedical and university curricula closer together, in order to facilitate a better recognition of the pathways – we are doing so – and building intermediate trades and restructuring the training offer to meet the needs, which is part of the continuity of the law on the guidance and success of the students we have voted for. You refer to the integration of paramedical training in the bachelor's, master's and doctoral courses: this is purely and simply the mission of universisation of the trainings set up by the ministers Buzyn and Vidal. The results are tangible: since the beginning of 2018, access to nursing training institutes – IFSI – has been done via Parcoursup, which has put an end to an unfair competition and removed discriminatory enrolment and travel costs, while allowing full integration of nurses into the university. Since the beginning of 2018 again, the health service you call your vows has been decided and generalized to all health students. It promotes prevention, which is the key to the health system. As you can see, the rapporteur, the Government and the majority seem to have largely anticipated the Republican project. You fertilize the egg, while we have already given life to this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u36	How humble!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u37	I have other examples, Mr rapporteur. Article 12 of the text creates the status of nurse in advanced practice. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that the Republicans do not hold the patent: while this specialization has been in the drawers for about ten years, you have had neither the courage nor the will to create it when you were in power. Advanced practice is located on the peak line that separates actors who do not wish to go too far from those who consider this specialization insufficient. That is why I am proud to be part of this majority, which has been able to reconcile them and finally realize this specialisation, which is a major innovation. Since 18 July 2018, two decrees and three decrees have guided the exercise in advanced practice, which has been a real success since all the registrations are filled for the 2018 school year. These reforms provide new career opportunities for health professionals, while promoting a more self-sustaining mode of exercise and recognition. They then allow doctors to recover medical time while offering them new opportunities for cooperation. They also improve patient access to care and diversify care. Finally, for the benefit of our health care system, they strengthen cooperation between professionals within the health care territories. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As you can see, rapporteur, we have already begun the transformation of our health care system. Of course, if we can only salute your work, the reality is that our vision is far beyond all your proposals. The French deserve much better than a theatre game, where everyone has to play their role of opposition and majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u38	You don't play theater, do you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u39	My remarks are not particularly directed at you, rapporteur. One can only emphasize the quality of your work: I wanted to salute it. However, what is the point of proposing an alternative project, when we simply agree with what is already proposed. I am not saying here that the voice of the opposition must be struck, on the contrary: I am one of those who want to retain everything that is good in every project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u40	What a condescendence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u41	It is the very essence of our movement and of the transformation that we are implementing. Let us simply be true, constructive and effective, because, as you point out in the explanatory memorandum, "health must feed the most beautiful of political projects". To this end, it must be relieved of the political logics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u42	You're in a good position to talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. - Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u44	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I have two reasons for satisfaction. The first is that this bill intends to set out some basic directions for the future of our health care system. And he really needs it. We're used to renting the French health care system, and we're right. However, in a ranking published in 2016, which took into account thirty-three health-related indicators, France came in only twenty-fourth. Insufficient or ineffective prevention policies, without proper coordination and without regular evaluation, are among the reasons for this poor ranking. It is precisely prevention that is the great absence of the health plan 2022 announced by the Government. This bill therefore intends to remedy this absence, by introducing an ambitious policy not only of prevention but also of health education. Thus, Article 2 expands the tasks of the National Public Health Agency to include more closely tasks relating to health education and therapeutic education. This is a good thing, even if constantly expanding the agency's prerogatives should not obscure the mission of protecting the fragile people that was originally assigned to it. My second reason for satisfaction concerns the announced end of the numerus clausus: an effective health care system is not only passed on to well-trained and sufficient numbers of doctors. I remember pleading, about a year ago, with other Members, on the left and on the right, for the end of the numerus clausus! A year... at the time, Madam Minister, you had expressed your disagreement. However, the 2017 figures spoke for themselves, as 26% of the 70275 retired doctors, or 18267 practitioners, continued to practice their profession to compensate for the absence of doctors in medical deserts. By 2050, if nothing was done, they could have been 35,000. Equally alarming is the fact that the number of doctors with a European or extra-European diploma has increased by 7.8 percentage points in ten years. In 2017, they represented 26805 physicians, representing 11.8% of physicians in operation. While 9000 communes, which still account for some 5.3 million inhabitants, are in short supply of general practitioners, you said, Madam Minister, on October 27, 2017: "I would like to reply to Mrs Ménard about the numerus clausus, because I hear a lot of nonsense about it. And to continue, saying that the removal of the numerus clausus was not the immediate measure to be taken, since "the doctors who have been trained as a result of this opening will be on the market [...] or rather in exercise in our territory between 2030 or 2035". Today, I am pleased that pragmatism and common sense have finally prevailed and that the Government has reviewed its copy. Let us continue, for our territories need doctors who believe in the beautiful oath of Hippocrates that honors this profession. France also needs to strengthen its paramedical training through its integration into the university system. However, this aspect is dealt with only at a minimum in the Government's draft, whereas the text under consideration today would solve this problem, not only through the reform of medical studies, by integrating an assessment of the personal qualities of candidates at the end of the common first year into health studies, by emerging from an overly hospitable vision of medical studies and by valuing the exercise of city medicine, but also by the creation of a patient-trainer status, which deserves at least not to be swept away by a hand, or by that of health villages or territorial boarding schools. All these proposals have the merit of flattening our health system and proposing concrete solutions to its dysfunctions – I insist on the word "health" in order not to limit myself to care alone. I would have liked the pragmatism of the majority to be even more complete: if you had listened to us last year, we would have won a year in the suppression of the numerus clausus. Your argument, today, to reject the bill of our colleagues in the Republican Group follows the same logic, falls under the same sectarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u46	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u47	[[Applause among non-attached Members and on several benches in the LR Group]] As it does not come from your majority, you prefer to postpone it to a bill that you will have voted on in a few months. That's too bad. It is not very "new world", you will agree, even though it is the health of the French that is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u48	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering today is ambitious. It aims to give coherence to our health system and make it more effective and fairer: nothing less. Who would want, who could oppose such laudable intentions? Who would deny that efforts are to be made to prevent, access care or coordination among health professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u50	Anyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u51	Members of parliament in rural towns or territories, we are all faced with the difficulties of our fellow citizens who struggle to find a doctor who is treating them or who have had to wait for hours in emergencies for themselves or their families. It is therefore urgent to react. Indeed, unbearable situations have arisen for years and even decades. Despite staggering reforms, successive majorities have not been able to stop the problems we are all witnessing today – they have often worsened them. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] In particular, there is a need to rethink the training of caregivers. Yes, it is true, the first year common to health studies, the famous PACES, showed its limits. Yes, it is true, the numerus clausus is anxiogenic and largely counterproductive. Yes, it is true, coordination between caregivers must be at the heart of the training of healthcare professionals. Yes, all of this is true. But it is also true that, with regard to the number of doctors, the reform of the numerus clausus will only bear fruit in ten years' time. It is a pity that this reform was not proposed ten years ago when your party, the rapporteur, was in power, and for a long time now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u53	We would not be there today if common-sense measures had been taken at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u54	Common sense is not what guides you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u55	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u56	It has often been said that health is life in the silence of organs. It looks like your stethoscope was failing, because it took you a long time to hear the disorder in the great body that is our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u57	He wasn't that bad ten years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u58	For the reform that you are proposing falls on the wrong track, Mr rapporteur: too little, too late. The reform of health studies is necessary, and we will lead it far beyond the symbols, because the incantations have made their time. The reform that we are proposing is not the result of the political recovery of subjects that have long been left in set-aside.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u59	We do not make any recovery, but proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u60	This is the result of long-term listening, co-construction work with all health professionals, with students, with patients, as close as possible to the needs of all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u61	[[Smile on several benches of the LR group]] Good thing you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u62	For the reform of training only makes sense if it is part of a coherent transformation of the entire health system, which we intend to carry out. It is vital for all of us, but first and foremost for students, who too often suffer from the conditions that prevail today. But you can't take care of others when you're not doing well yourself. That is why, as of the PLFSS for 2019, we will be launching the projects announced recently by the President of the Republic and yourself, Madam Minister, as part of the road map "My Health 2022". We will take note of the abolition of the numerus clausus as early as 2020, to give way to a progressive orientation system that is less conducive to bulging, leaves more room for practice and allows for the diversification of student profiles. We no longer want a book-based appreciation of knowledge, unrelated to the skills actually applied in the health professions. We will make the first cycle of health studies a veritable springboard to various routes, instead of being a failed airlock for a considerable number of brilliant students. We will focus training on cooperation between professionals and not competition, which has lasting harmful effects. Yes, our training system will move from a competitive mode to a collaborative one. As early as 2020, we will abolish the national classifying tests, the end-of-year sixth-year tests, which are just questionnaires nourishing the bulging.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u63	It's a little caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u64	We will aim to train caregivers who have learned to learn to develop life-long skills rather than to store knowledge. The acquisition of skills will remain technical in order to maintain the quality of our future professionals, but it will be accompanied by learning non-technical skills such as humanities, empathy, listening. We will integrate the patient into the training of health professionals. Patients will be able to be trainers and assessors of health students. We will put patients at the centre of this transformed and modernized health system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These training measures are consistent. They are fully part of the overall approach under the "My Health 2022" plan. They have above all the merit of effectiveness: what we announce, we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u65	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u66	rapporteur, if your proposal for a law follows the publication of the White Paper For the future of health, of which you are the author, it is also in line with the announcements made by the Government in the framework of the plan "My Health 2022" unveiled on 18 September and built around three priority commitments that were recalled earlier. While several issues addressed by the "My Health 2022" plan are reflected in your bill, the bill addresses only some aspects of public health policy, while the Government proposes a comprehensive and ambitious reform, which is part of the national health strategy. Let me take two or three examples. With regard to the shared medical record, I agree with you on the need to integrate prevention pathways. However, 14 years after its launch, this issue will gradually become widespread in the near future. Let's give him the chance to meet the expectations of health care professionals and gain patient support before making any changes. This patient file has often been limited to a succession of application bricks not always integrated. It took a long time to determine what it should contain. One of the challenges ahead is interoperability between health care institutions and city practitioners. Let us ensure that its national deployment is successful – indeed, I have no doubt – before making any further changes. I also want to raise the issue of funding our health care system. You are proposing that every five years Parliament adopt a law on health programming. I'm not one of those who thinks it's necessary to overrelegate. Since 2016, the National Health Strategy sets out the objectives and means implemented, at the initiative of the Government, for a period of five years; It is up to us to monitor its effective implementation and to give it a legislative and budgetary translation into the PLFSS and the other texts we are considering. You also propose to create a fee for the care route for routes determined by regulation. Several reports have highlighted the limitations of T2A. I attended this scalable race for years, when I accompanied many institutions in the implementation of the T2A, which was in addition to the consequences of the implementation of the 35 hours, the new governances, the patient record and the projects of the new institutions... I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the admirable work of the health care staff, the administrative staff and the management of the establishments that have led all of these sites together. The "Ma santé 2022" plan proposes to move towards a pricing of quality and care path and gradually limit the share of funding to activity and action. It includes the creation of care pathways for heart failure and osteoporosis by the end of the year, an extension of this approach to the main chronic diseases before the end of 2019, the introduction of lump sum financing for certain chronic diseases and the revision of the classifications and classifications of professional acts. The government plan also provides for an increase in the national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – by 2.5% in 2019 – which is the highest in recent years – and an allocation of 300 million euros from 2019, compared to 60 million today, to finance quality in hospitals. Another part of this bill deals with health supplements, which provide full or partial reimbursement of expenses not covered by health insurance. Noting that contracts vary considerably from one company to another, you propose to introduce an identical basket of guarantees regardless of the size of the business. This form of alignment is likely to create an additional burden for companies that do not have the means to do so and to cause a levelling down. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, while the topics covered by this bill are in line with those of the "My Health 2022" plan and the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty, the measures advocated by the Government are different and far more ambitious. The issues of society and public health, the care and quality of care, the organisation and territorial distribution, the methods of financing and regulation, the training of professionals and the adaptation to digital technology cannot suffer from measures but must form a coherent whole, with a legislative translation in the draft law on the financing of social security and in other texts which will be presented in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u67	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u68	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u69	The meeting was resumed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u70	I will make a few quick observations following the various interventions we have just heard. In this Chamber, where some very beautiful pages of our country's history have been written, I felt that time was not the same for everyone. Some have found that our proposals were very late – and those could have been glad that, in the end, we were joining them – while others found them very early, and should have rejoiced at their forward-looking nature. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will simply give you this beautiful thought of time by Jean d'Ormesson: "There are days, months, endless years in which nothing happens. There are minutes and seconds that contain a whole world. This was the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u71	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard in this Chamber many speeches from many groups which, in a way, validate the plans My Health 2022 and Priority Prevention, both of which were presented this year by the Government. So I see that we are all, or almost all, going in the same direction, and I am glad about that. Thus, I am pleased to know that many of this year's PLFSS measures can be voted on by the Republicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u73	We're waiting for the bill to be passed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u74	... because they appear, in advance of phase, in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u75	Irony has limits!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u76	This is particularly the case with regard to the reorganization of community care and prevention. Some measures will indeed be the subject of a particular bill, in particular those concerning the training of health professionals, which requires a specific text, which will be presented to this House in the course of 2019 and will, I am sure, lead to accession. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any case, I note that a very large majority of Members of this House are in favour of common sense measures. I would therefore like to thank you for this constructive spirit in building the health and health care system of tomorrow, on which we will still have the opportunity to work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u77	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République en marche group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. On this motion of rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u78	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur, I would like to associate myself with what the Minister has said, among other things. Indeed, we are certainly many to share the concern for the future of our health care system and to see it improve. The 19th century recognized the right to disease, guaranteed by the nascent welfare state. The twentieth century has enshrined the right to health, expanding it as it progresses to the development of the person. It is essentially a model of the right to care that has been built. This system of care is our pride. It is part of our collective history, but also part of our individual stories – that of every healthcare professional, of every Frenchman at every moment of his life. However, for too many years, more and more challenges have emerged. We have a number of problems. How can we strive for more justice and efficiency at the same time? How can we respond to the challenges of population ageing and the increase in chronic and degenerative diseases? How can we respond to large regional and social disparities? How can prevention be truly integrated into our health care system? The answer must certainly be comprehensive. From the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has implemented article 1 of the 2016 law establishing a national health strategy, with the aim of breaking down the various aspects of health policy and encouraging a proactive approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u79	What a failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u80	In line with the national health strategy, following the submission of reports on various themes, the My Health 2022 plan was presented on September 18th. It draws up five priority projects and is structured around key objectives, including the unbundling of the organisation of care, professional exercises, training and funding. This plan is ambitious, coherent and comprehensive. After the PLFSS for 2018, some measures are already included in the PLFSS for 2019 and others will be discussed in the texts that will appear on our agenda in the coming months. The bill before us is limited to six main themes, six main headings: prevention, medical and paramedical training, territorial care organization, liberal exercise, health data and funding. We broadly agree with the observations made by the rapporteur. We also share a part of his philosophy. There is indeed a need for real ambition in terms of prevention. There is a need to ensure consistency between medical and paramedical studies. Better access to care throughout the country and better quality of care are needed. All this is necessary, and that is the ambition of the majority. Before I talk about prevention, I'll talk about access to care. It is a subject that particularly affects the department of which I am elected, the first department affected by medical desertification. The evidence of a deterioration in the presence of doctors in our territories is indisputable, as is that of insufficient coordination. The key measure of your proposed law in this area is the creation of "health villages" and the abolition of territorial health professional communities – CPTS. However, the report of the Commission of Inquiry on Access to Care points out that "the CPTS formula has emerged as a major hope for all interlocutors". The General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – makes the same observation and proposes levers to develop them. In fact, there are very few STCPs, but the My Health 2022 plan plans to facilitate their deployment, with the goal of creating 1,000 by 2022. In the plan, one could add the labelling of community hospitals for day-to-day care or priority funding for professionals working collectively. In terms of prevention, there has been a real beginning only since 2004. It's late! Since then, the 2016 law on the modernization of our health care system has tried to bring this ambition to bear. It was probably too shy. The road is still long, but the revolution of prevention, led by the candidate Emmanuel Macron in the presidential election,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u81	Who?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u82	... is reflected in the national health strategy led by Agnès Buzyn and the prevention component presented on March 23rd. One might therefore agree with the idea of making it a major national cause. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] First of all, however, it is the Prime Minister's responsibility to attribute the major national causes. Secondly, it is to forget the strategy presented and the ambitions carried by the Government and the majority. Let us remember, because it is important: it is the first time that prevention is considered a real priority of our health policy. It must be done at all ages of life, involving all actors in an understanding approach and not being the business of a pool of experts or of public health professionals alone, but involving all. It is a matter of dealing with, even before doing for. Prevention should no longer be seen as a mere dispensation of information. However, in Article 5, you are still talking about "teaching" and messages to be transmitted. A bit of etymology: "teaching" comes from the Latin insignire, which means "reporting", while "education" – we are talking about health education – comes from the Latin exducere, which means "driving out", implying "out of oneself" or "forward". We want dynamic support, not static provision of information. We want a positive health construction, ahead of risk management. The generalization of a system such as "Going well to learn better", led by the Government and the Minister of Education, is part of a preventive approach that includes the environment, spaces, time management, interpersonal relations and psychosocial skills. That is the logic we want to strive towards. As I pointed out in committee, this bill is stumbling down on a number of problems. The first of all relates to the quality of the law. In this sense, it would have been interesting to have the opinion of the Council of State, as has been possible since the constitutional revision of 2008. First, many of the measures you are proposing should be taken by regulation. Secondly, and because your bill speaks very precisely of the need for a better evaluation – as a member of Parliament's Evaluation and Oversight Committee, I am personally very sensitive to it – how can we promote evaluation when we want to amend or remove provisions that are less than two years old and whose first evaluations encourage development? I am obviously talking about the CPTS, which we want to see developed, but also about Public Health France, whose positioning you want to change. Assessing and thinking about the existing rather than always legislating, complaining about the inefficiency of some of the mechanisms and starting over again: that is how we would like to think about the development of the law. As we have pointed out on several occasions, this bill is part of a very special political agenda. It was tabled on 29 August, less than a month before the presentation of My Health 2022 and several months after the presentation of the National Health Strategy, its prevention component and road maps on older people's age and independence and mental health. However, these various plans and roadmaps cover more comprehensively and consistently the elements presented in this bill. I will not summarize them here in a few sentences, but you know them well: these include the exceptional increase of ONDAM in 2019, the student health service, the generalisation of Aller bien pour plus leur leur leur, actions of prevention throughout the life, the dismantling of the work of professionals through the development of CPTS or the definition of territorial health projects, the labelling of community hospitals, the abolition of the numerus clausus by 2020 and the integration of the patient as an actor in training and evaluation. Some of these measures are included in the FSLP, others will require a bill, which will be on our agenda as early as 2019 for implementation at the end of 2019 or early 2020. Then we wonder. We do not want to believe that the bill we are discussing today is subject to a logic of political opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u83	Not at all! These are proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u84	Some of the few legislative provisions are interesting. If there is a will to impose a competing agenda, we say: "Let's work together and be constructive! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u85	Always the same formulas! Constructive? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u86	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is an essential challenge for health care professionals and for all French people. It will have to be raised collectively and put aside any demagogy. In the meantime, the Group of the European People's Party calls for the prior rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u87	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Alain Ramadier, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u88	By proposing a motion to reject this text beforehand, the majority chooses to ignore a text that echoes the heart of the national health strategy 2018-2022 presented by the President of the Republic at the beginning of the parliamentary year. This heart, of course, is prevention. By proposing, in particular, to extend the tasks of the National Public Health Agency to include more fully tasks relating to prevention, health education and therapeutic education, this text translates into action an emergency that we all recognize. The multiannual budgetary programming proposed by this text would also deserve more consideration, as our health and social policy has for several years been trapped in a short-term budgetary logic, a source of uncertainty for health actors and a complete lag over the long time that would require a more territorialised and cross-sectoral approach. Our colleague from the running Republic Group told us earlier that he was in favour of taking what was best in the texts of the opposition. Why reject this one?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u89	They despise us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Once again, the majority lacks the opportunity to make the New World something other than a campaign slogan and to use the constructive approach of the opposition. We regret it both for the Assembly and for the country, and we will therefore vote against this motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u91	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u92	First of all, we would like to acknowledge the work that Jean-Carles Grelier has done with this 28-article bill. We regret, however, that this proposal comes in conjunction with the presentation of the health strategy 2018-2022 and at the beginning of the review of the social security funding bill for 2019. There is a telescopage that must not obstruct the Government's numerous and structuring initiatives. Indeed, all the topics covered in this proposal for a law on prevention, the proper organization of medical and paramedical training, access to health care and health innovation are currently being reformed, either in progress or in the future. Let us therefore allow the necessary time for their implementation. We must also highlight our points of disagreement. Some of your proposals do not win our approval, such as the creation of health villages: it would be better to use the existing one, namely the CPTS, and to use local health contracts, for which elected officials are active. We understand your concerns about the current challenges facing the hospital, the social and territorial inequalities in health, and the delays in modernizing our health system, particularly in terms of digitality, as these are major concerns, which we share on all levels of our assembly. However, we must not increase the number of legislative initiatives that would mask all the efforts made over the past year and a half. The first effects of the work undertaken will soon be known, and we will be able to build on these results to move forward together, in a consensual manner, on these issues. Since we support the transformation of our health care system in recent months to ensure access to quality care for all, the MODEM and related groups will vote in favour of this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u93	The next speaker is Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u94	As we have already pointed out on several occasions in this House, we are in principle opposed to the adoption of motions on days reserved for the opposition groups' agendas. I would like to recall that the aim of the introduction of these niche days was to rebalance the agenda by allowing the review of parliamentary own-initiative texts alongside the agenda proposed by the Government. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] We said this during the committee review: we are reserved on the advisability of a bill, while the broad directions of the future health plan have just been revealed. However, this bill has an in-depth mechanism, which deserves to be welcomed. We certainly do not agree with all the proposals, but we always prefer a debate and an exchange of arguments for arguments rather than a lack of discussion. Our group will therefore vote against this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u95	Finally, a little common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u96	The next speaker is Mr Joël Aviragnet, for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u97	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As I said earlier, this proposal contains measures that are contrary to our proposal. That being said, the motion to reject is a decision of the Government, so we will not participate in it: we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u98	Mrs Caroline Fiat, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As I said earlier in the rostrum, we do not agree with this bill, but we want democracy in this Parliament. We are 400 new deputies: a new generation of parliamentarians is coming, but opposition group bills are never discussed on these benches. What a shame! [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] Why do you keep pulling back? Why don't you talk? We do not agree with this bill, which we amended, and we would certainly have voted against it, but at least the debate would have taken place on these benches. That is why we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u100	Mr Alain Bruneel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u101	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] To be clear, we are against prior rejection, so we will also vote against it, because it is anti-democratic. [[Same movements]] Unfortunately, it becomes a habit for the majority to table such motions at every parliamentary niche: it is a democratic denial on your part!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u102	This is outrageous! Unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u103	[[Same movements]] Mrs. Tamarelle-Verhaeghe refers us to the plan My Health 2022. The one proposed by the Republicans nevertheless deserves, in substance, to be discussed. We cannot agree on everything, but this proposal has at least the merit of existence: it is called the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u104	It's censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u105	Everyone must be able to express themselves and bring ideas. You have your plan, we also have our ideas, we do not share everything you propose in the My Health 2022 plan, and we will discuss it in due course. Prevention is prevention; But this also applies in the environmental and economic context. How can we prevent when railway lines are closed, thus creating pollution with emissions of fine particles? How can we warn by voting against free school transport, as is the case in this niche? How can we prevent if, at the economic level, people do not feel well in their skin? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, and for others that we will discuss, including the choices you made regarding the PLFSS, we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u106	The next speaker is Mr Thomas Mesnier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u107	The La République en marche group welcomed your proposal for a law on the future of health with astonishment, first of all because of the concordance of the timetable,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u108	We didn't decide it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u109	... while, three weeks earlier, the President of the Republic presented, alongside you, Madam Minister, the health plan for the quinquennium. We are now considering a text on our health care system. This is all the more surprising because the PLFSS for 2019, which will be discussed in this House in the coming days, is already incorporating measures from the My Health 2022 plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u110	So let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u111	Don't be afraid of the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u112	Surprising also with regard to the proposed changes: the bill deals only with certain aspects of health policy in terms of prevention, organisation of the care system, pricing, digital transformation or training of professionals. We need to put the patient back at the heart of the care system and take better account of the quality of its care. We need to reorganize a link between city medicine, medico-social and hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u113	It's bla-bla!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u114	We need to rethink the training of all health professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u115	And in concrete terms, what are your proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u116	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is what we do in the budget texts, that is what we will do at the beginning of 2019 with the health law, which we will debate here, without doubt, with passion. For these reasons, the La République en marche group has decided to support this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u117	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u118	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 134 Number of votes cast 130 Absolute majority 66 For adoption 75 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u119	Consequently, the bill is rejected and there is no need to proceed to the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u120	It's not nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u121	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u122	[[The sitting was suspended at 11.36 a.m. and resumed at 11.38 a.m. with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u123	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u124	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Aurélien Pradié and others on the inclusion of pupils with disabilities (No. 1230, 1290).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u125	Mr Aurélien Pradié, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u126	Madam President, the Minister of National Education, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House, often echoes the echo of our political battles. Here, these battles are sometimes sharp, brutal. They do not affect Members of Parliament or ministers. Here, in the National Assembly, there are beautiful and great political battles. These are sometimes smaller battles, some won, that advance our society. It is here that we are echoing those of our fellow citizens who, too often, fail to make themselves heard. The bill I have the honour to present on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Republicans are not exactly a subject like any other. The school of the Republic, the place of disability there, are not subjects like the others. The cause of disability needs to lay down arms, make something resonate other than partisan quarrels. It requires us to get to work. The place of disability in school speaks a lot of what we are, our country, our values, our common ability never to compromise when it comes to equal rights or sometimes, sadly, to accommodate inequalities. Because that is the equality of rights that we are talking about today. The equality that underpins our republican foundation and that makes a child, a student, ordinary or extraordinary, with or without disability, different or like others, will follow normal schooling, learn, grow up, become a complete and respected citizen. This equality of rights is a long way. From the law of guidance of 30 June 1975 until the law of 11 February 2005, desired by Jacques Chirac, the road was long. This long path leads us to humility, but it also pushes us to take full measure of the challenge ahead. The number of students welcomed increased from about 100,000 in 2006 to over 320,000 in 2017 and 340,000 in 2018. At the same time, the number of students receiving human support was multiplied by five: more than 156000 in June 2017. Two years ago, at the start of the 2016 school year, there were 137,000 students receiving human support – 15518 more students than at the start of 2015. In 2016, 46 per cent of students with disabilities in regular schools received human support. But other, more painful, figures have to be revealed. For this year's year, more than 600 students were without an accompaniment solution in the Rennes Academy, with 645 children without a solution in Ille-et-Vilaine, and 870 in Paris, representing almost 20% of the 4827 notifications of human aid on 7 September. Their number would exceed 1500 in some departments: in Seine-Saint-Denis, they are 3400 without any prospect. Do I also have to recall that, at the end of 2015, 1230 French children with disabilities had had to enter Belgian institutions because they could not find a solution in their own country, France? We can estimate that 20% of the children and adolescents in Île-de-France are expatriates to Belgium; Since 2015, this figure has been increasing steadily. Along with these children, there are those whom the AESH-AVS collective itself calls the "invisibles of national education". These words, in the mouths of these immensely merited women and men, are strong. They're strong and they're just. These 80000 women and men are so little visible in their status, in their employment, in their training and in the remuneration offered to them. Precariousness often forges their daily lives. What do we answer to this AESH – accompanying students with disabilities – which sees its working time divided by two in the course of the school year and which survives with a salary of 898 euros per month? Does his profession, that of the challenge of inclusion, not deserve better? What are we still responding to this AVS – an auxiliary to school life – who, three months after taking up his post alongside an autistic child, is still waiting for the 60 hours of training promised to him? These situations are not those of yesterday, no: they are those of today. No one has the right to say that everything is well and that nothing should change: no one can be so humble! No one can decently look these children, teenagers, families, companions and tell them that the emergency is elsewhere. For the urgency, ladies and gentlemen, it is here before our eyes. There is no need to wait more, to order an umpteenth report that will conclude as the dozens of precedents. The urgency, we know it; the solutions, we propose them. Only the political will to make it a real priority remains and is lacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u128	No one can answer that everything's fine. For, ladies and gentlemen, these abstract figures have faces. These faces are all life paths, families for whom the promise of the Republican school today is a disappointment. The only thing we owe them is answers and solutions. Our bill therefore addresses a number of specific and concrete issues. First, it is a question of making a positive and significant change in the professional situations of AVS and AESH. To this end, we propose, in Article 1, to replace the many current precarious statutes with a single status of accompanying school inclusion, in line with the regime of State contractual agents and better paid. They will no longer necessarily have to carry out two fixed-term contracts before they can possibly obtain an indefinite contract. In addition to these provisions, I will propose an amendment providing that, in each department, the academic director of the national education services be required to designate at least one accompanying person for the so-called "resources" school inclusion, to which two types of tasks may be entrusted: either the temporary and one-time replacement of accompanying persons already present in the territory; support for the benefit of the other accompanying persons, to provide them with expert advice and expertise. This mechanism of AESH tutor already exists in Paris: it is here, by law, to generalize and structure it. Article 2 of the draft law aims to strengthen and enhance the training of these accompanying persons by providing for the creation of a professional state diploma or certificate of fitness. It will be possible to add a specialization course, opening, for AVS-AESH, a career development perspective for the accompanying AVS-AESH tomorrow. Our proposal also seeks to reduce the time taken to accompany them. It is obvious that the success of pupils' schooling is at least as much during school time as during extra-curricular and extra-curricular time. Article 1 states, unambiguously, that the accompanying persons may be at the side of pupils with disabilities during school leave. You will surely tell me that the law already provides for this; There are so many situations that show that this right is not effective! The aim of Article 5 is to establish an inclusive path, which I would suggest, by way of amendment, to describe as "personalised". It will bring together around a table, at least three times a year, and, at a minimum, before the school year, all the actors involved in the schooling of pupils with disabilities, including accompanying students. No such device exists today. Finally, Article 4 suggests that the deadlines for the examination of applications to the CDMH – the departmental house of disabled people – should be set, increasing them from four months today to two months. This bill is certainly not perfect. It is like the reality and life of these families and companions: imperfect. It is like the action of the Government: imperfect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u130	It is like the Members that we are: imperfect. But it is voluntary, like families and companions who fight daily to be heard; as the Government should be, as the deputies we are should all be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u131	It's swollen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u132	This bill can be enriched by the contributions of all the political groups in this assembly. In committee, the only political group that has not bothered to table a single amendment is that of the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u133	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u134	I was appalled by the attitude of contempt, the hasty attitude, the clan attitude with which the Members of the majority have dealt with this essential subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u135	A little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] How can we be so overwhelmed by political discipline that we do not want to vote for better training, for a revalorisation of these paths, or for a reduction of the CDMH deadlines? Mr Minister, if you hear the same words on both sides of the House, perhaps it is because you are the only one who does not see the huge road ahead. Perhaps this is because a form of self-satisfaction has taken over the will to act. If these words are the same, it is because we measure on the ground, every week, the abyssal gap between the statements that are yours and the acts. If the words you hear on both sides of the Chamber are the same, perhaps we are right and you are wrong. It may also be that, on such a subject, we want to live up to the mandate of a Member of Parliament for the people that has been entrusted to us. We refuse to be managers resigned from the disability: we want to act – not tomorrow: today! Not by decree or by small circular, but by the law of the Republic! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr.Minister, I wish that we collectively live up to this issue. These children deserve it, these companions deserve it, our republican ideal also deserves it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u137	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u138	Madam President, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met this morning to discuss the draft law on the inclusion of students with disabilities. Of course, I can only agree with the introduction of Mr Pradié's speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u139	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u140	It was a call to rally, in keeping with all the speeches I have made, from the beginning, on disability. You will therefore allow me to regret that his conclusion was so incongruous with his introduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u141	This is the result of your attitude in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u142	Indeed, the text you have just presented contains, of course, interesting elements, which I shall discuss. It must enable us to make the necessary improvements for the reception of students with disabilities, and, of course, to go beyond the political divides, which I am constantly doing on this issue, with pleasure in particular to point out that the various majorities that have followed Parliament and the Government have made progress on this issue for some 20 years, even though, as you have said, it is still insufficient. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] So I won't let myself be caricatured like someone who won't see the problems that arise as well as the avenues for improvement. You know it all the better, but I'll come back to it, because in some time, we're just going to exploit them. It is therefore a bit surprising to pretend to know nothing about it, as if behind this call to rally was a political calculation. So I really want to take you to the word by putting me in a sense of gathering, behind the government...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u143	Why, then, refuse the debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u144	Three and a half hours in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u145	You refuse the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u146	... since it is he who is responsible for this policy and since he makes proposals, most of which are in line with what you want and will therefore deserve your approval, today and tomorrow. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Your proposal may be an opportunity for an interesting debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u147	But you're preventing the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, only the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u149	We agree, so no motion to reject it beforehand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u150	Member, let the minister speak, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u151	The text you have just presented can be an opportunity to...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u152	Must be!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u153	... to draw up an assessment and prospects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u154	It will be an opportunity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u155	It all depends on the spirit in which things are done. At the beginning of 2018, 341,500 students with disabilities are enrolled in schools and institutions under the Ministry of Education. That's 20,000 more than last year. I would like to highlight the efforts that have been made by all to make progress. When I say all, it is of course the professionals of the reception of pupils with disabilities, but also the whole educational community, since the very principle of inclusive school implies that all teachers in France, in particular, are affected by this development. In this new year, 253 new localised units for school inclusion, ULIS, were created, 38 of them in high school, which allows to increase the total number of ULIS today, in France, to 8814. It is significant that on the day of the re-entry, we found ourselves, together with the President of the Republic and the Secretary of State for the Disabled, Sophie Cluzel, in one of these ULIS, in Laval, to testify how this is a fundamental priority for the Government. For the first time in ten years, the number of accompanying persons with AESH status exceeded that of assisted jobs, which had previously been the majority. This shows the priority we attach to greater robustness, greater contract strength for those who benefit from it, which makes it possible to make a better public service. 29,000 assisted jobs and 43041 AESH, in full-time equivalent, have been accompanying students with disabilities since the start of 2018. These figures are a concrete expression of the Government's willingness to move forward. It is a real plan for the transformation of this profession that we have embarked on, both in human terms and in budgetary terms. It is therefore absurd to pretend that this is not going to happen. The FLP for 2019 provides funding for 12400 new AESH jobs. The coming season will therefore be in keeping with the spirit that you have recalled. We will have an additional 6400 accompanying partners to continue the transformation plan of the contracts assisted in AESH, and an additional 6000 AESH will be funded in 2019. The path that is taken is therefore consistent with what you call your vows. Welcoming students with disabilities meets both a requirement of justice and solidarity, two concepts that go far beyond political divisions and alternations. If it is possible to present such a review of the 2018 re-entry, it is obviously, I repeat, thanks to the continued involvement of successive governments and the establishment of this inclusive school whose concept, I think, brings us together for the past, for the present and, more importantly, for the future. I am thinking in the first place – as you have reminded me, Member – of the law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities. I am also thinking of the incorporation of inclusive school into the Education Code in 2013. The number of students welcomed increased from about 100,000 in 2006 to nearly 350,000 in 2018. This threefold in ten years is obviously a considerable challenge for our system. I agree with you that this quantitative development has not always been followed by the necessary qualitative improvements, particularly in terms of the training of staff responsible for this reception and schooling, but also of teachers. Nevertheless, the situation is improving. It is necessary to change the paradigm: it is a fact that is now shared not only between us, but also by the parents of students, professionals and associations – you also see this in your report, Mr. I therefore propose that you look at your bill in the light of these principles. I will of course give you my analysis, but also the prospects for the future, although, since you have called for humility, they go beyond me, just as they go beyond today's discussion alone. First of all, I have to tell you my astonishment about your choice of the term "aiding school inclusion" – although you did not use it in your speech, it appears in your proposal. The term "helper" refers to a notion of substitution; I believe that professionals prefer the term "accompaniment" that we use. Indeed, the term caregiver is commonly attributed to any person, whether professional or not, who provides assistance to a dependent person who needs to be assisted in carrying out the essential acts of life. The concept of "accompaniment", on the other hand, covers a reality of the missions of these personnel more in line with the idea of autonomy. In addition to the terms used, article 1 of the draft law provides for the creation of a single statute for accompanying students with disabilities. This is very precisely the road map we have set ourselves. We intend to put an end to the use of assisted contracts for the support of students with disabilities by the end of the quinquennium. For the moment, it is a new policy. It would therefore be paradoxical not to stress this: one can only agree with this principle. As you wish, there will therefore be only one status, that of AESH. It will eventually be possible to change it, but today it is this path that we are taking. Article 2 of the draft law deals in particular with training and proposes the creation, I quote, of "a genuine training, recognised by the State, for these carers". Here again, I want to reassure you: this diploma already exists. This is the state diploma of educational and social accompanying, with a speciality "inclusive education and ordinary life", as well as the validation of the experience you are proposing, which is also already being implemented. On this question, I refer you to the reading of Decree No. 2018-666 of 27 July 2018, which consolidates the initial training of the accompanying persons by displaying the obligation of a volume of sixty hours of continuous training. This is therefore a substantial step forward in this re-entry, with the increase in the number of AESHs. All benefit from these 60 hours of continuing training. The challenge is not so much to create new training as to promote effective access to this basic training and to supplement it with a course of training qualifying on-the-job, provided for by Decree No. 2014-724 of 27 June 2014. Under this decree, accompanying students with disabilities who do not hold a vocational degree can take part in training included in their actual service time. They may also receive the necessary training to obtain the diploma, always during their working hours. The latter seems much more important to me than the possibility for the accompanying persons to pass the BAFA which is proposed in section 3 of your bill. I would like to remind you that BAFA is a non-professional diploma, a certificate of aptitude for the functions of animator that allows you to exercise in holiday stays or leisure receptions. This proposal therefore seems paradoxical to me in relation to the desire expressed in Articles 1 and 2 to improve the status of accompanying students with disabilities, an objective which I share of course. The AESH are not facilitators, but accompaniment professionals. Finally, article 4 of the proposed law requires that applications filed with the CDMH be processed within a maximum of two months and that they be enforceable on the first day of the child's education. Again, I agree with the conclusion of this article. The processing times for CDMHs are too often too much longer than the statutory four-month deadline provided for in the 2005 law – this is a real practical problem. However, lowering the legal deadline to two months, i.e. asking the CDMH to work twice as fast, does not guarantee their ability to meet this deadline. In the inability to do so, the CDMH will be subject to an influx of revivals and we therefore risk a form of embolism. However, measures to simplify and improve the CDMH information system are already planned in order to reduce congestion and simplify their operation, but above all to improve the service to users. They follow on from the report by Adrien Taquet and Jean-François Serres, Simpler Life, and constitute a first step in the fluidification of the functioning of the CDMH, which I believe is indeed necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the technical analysis of this bill, I would now like to elaborate on the avenues for improvement that it raises, some of which, I think very sincerely, are relevant, already experienced or, for the most part, applied by the department. Indeed, they deserve to be deepened – which does not necessarily go through the law. First of all, I am thinking of the opening of school and extracurricular time. Articles 1, 3 and 5 raise the very legitimate question of the articulation of school and extracurricular time. This requires a better articulation between all the actors: educational community, local authorities and associations. The opening of children's times is at the heart of the policy that I am defending. Access to extracurricular education must be systematically made possible for all, especially for pupils furthest removed from these activities. This is the meaning of the Plan on Wednesday launched this summer, which of course incorporates the issues related to inclusive school. The Quality Charter Plan on Wednesday organises the reception of Wednesday around four axes, including ensuring the inclusion and accessibility of all children wishing to participate in the reception of leisure, especially children with disabilities. Decompartmentalization of extracurricular and school time is beneficial for students and their families. It may also provide a lever for improving the working conditions of the accompanying persons. Indeed, it could make it possible for accompanying persons who wish to do so to complete their working time. The experimentation of localized inclusive support poles, the PIALs, also goes in this direction. Still in the logic of a territorial and coordinated approach between all the actors of school inclusion, we have been experimenting since this re-entry with the establishment of these poles in each academy. The aim of this experiment is to improve the support of students with disabilities in a collective project where needs assessment, diversity of training offer, educational differentiation and the school project are developed and articulated. These centres allow for a more comprehensive organisation of human, pedagogical, educational, therapeutic aids and mobilise teachers to implement adequate responses at the classroom level, as well as at the school level. They allow both greater fluidity and better customization of children's accompaniment. Finally, another objective that we can share: the transformation of the accompanying profession. Like you, I think we need to value the job of accompanying, which is first and foremost a strengthening of continuing training. While the texts now guarantee access to solid initial training, I believe it is necessary to build continuous training pathways involving more broadly the personal teachers and managers, the medical and social actors and the associations. In addition, the place of the accompanying persons must be fully devoted to the educational team, which involves their association with the various educational bodies such as the school councils. These points of reflection which I submit to you today may be the starting point for the consultation which, as you know, is scheduled to take place on 22 October before the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities with all the actors, trade unions, ministries and users. Your bill is therefore interesting thanks to the findings it draws, the leads it opens as to the state of mind necessary to address these issues. I'm doing what you said in the introduction: the spirit of assembly. If you really think so, you shouldn't have concluded as you did: don't pretend not to see the progress that has been made in this new year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u156	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u157	Do not use the problems that exist – there are always problems – and that we want to solve to create emotional effects that are particularly unfortunate in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u158	The lesson, always the lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u159	It's just a requirement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u160	Accept the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u161	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] We accept it, and it will take place...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u162	Why a previous rejection motion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u163	... since you're going to express yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u164	Colleagues, let the minister conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u165	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It's very simple: either you are really looking for the spirit of gathering and concord, and you will see that the improvements you call your vows will be effective in 2018 and 2019; or it's something else, and in that case we won't end up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u166	Do we have to believe you on your word?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u167	Be Zen, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u168	You're losing your temper, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u169	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u170	I would like to make a point of order, on the basis of Rule 58(3), concerning the conduct of our sitting. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr François Ruffin and Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applaud]] What I just heard is quite surprising, minister. You cannot tell us that you are open to dialogue and refuse the debate! That's what's going on! Your majority has decided to table a motion of prior rejection, which clearly means that there will be no debate: the text will be rejected as a whole and no article will be discussed. Since you have invited us not to do any stand effects, I send you back the elevator: do not give in to the effect of a stand pretending that you are open to discussion before blocking it by sectarianism! Unfortunately, that's what you just did! Your majority refuses any discussion, makes a motion to reject it beforehand, and no articles will be considered! Here's what you want: close the ban! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] That's not acceptable, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u171	In the general debate, Mr Gilles Lurton spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u172	[[Smile]] At least he's not sectarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u173	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our colleague Aurélien Pradié for allowing this bill to be included in the Republican "niche" today, and I am proud to have contributed to this work that we have carried out jointly. Proud, because today we are dealing with a subject that affects our humanity, a subject that must mobilize all of us far beyond our political affiliations, a subject on which we must now debate in substance in order, together, to find the best solutions. For, ladies and gentlemen, our society is a common heritage. By birth or by the hazards of life, some of us can carry an injury. Where is it written in the texts that govern our country that these people must be excluded from our common heritage? They're not! They can't be! These people with injuries must be fully included in the house! Yes, we want to fight for this inclusive society, this society that, tomorrow, will build the house so that this different person feels fully at home. This common heritage must unconditionally give rise to rights. That is the purpose of the bill that we are defending today, a bill that aims to further improve the inclusion of children with disabilities in schools and, more broadly, in society, a bill that should bring us all together this morning because the scope of the project is enormous. That's what I'm going to try to show you. Minister, as we all know, disability has been affirmed as a five-year priority, and I share that direction. I share this desire, affirmed on several occasions by the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, to allow persons with disabilities, regardless of their age and nature of disability, to have access to school, to an ordinary working environment and to our common home. In short, I fully share this desire for an inclusive society. Nevertheless, almost a year and a half after your government was put in place, it is clear that the results expected and announced are probably not at the start of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u174	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u175	Aurélien Pradié reminded you of the disastrous figures of the Seine-Saint-Denis. For 3400 children and adolescents in this department with guidance in specialized institutions, there are only 1,800 places available. For 2,400 children with an orientation to a special education service, no more than 800 places! In Ille-et-Vilaine, in my department, at the beginning of September, 645 pupils with regular school guidance did not have an accompaniment on the day of the school year. I am prepared, Minister, to acknowledge the efforts of your administration and the success of its work. I am also prepared to acknowledge that the number of children recognized by the departmental house of disabled persons as having to receive accompaniment has increased by more than 10% in this department. But in this department, as in all the French departments, the figures are unwarranted: the number of accompanying students with disabilities is well known to be insufficient. This lack of access to extracurricular activities, which is more difficult than regular school accommodation, is even more acute. But for us, inclusion must be complete. It should not be limited to a few hours a day: children with disabilities must participate in the entire school cycle, including extracurricular activities. Yes, inclusion also means allowing children with disabilities to eat in the canteen and be accompanied for it. Yes, inclusion also means allowing them to participate, together with other children, in school outings and trips, as well as in sports activities. This is the condition of integration, as Mrs Cluzel has pointed out on several occasions. The Nantes Administrative Court of Appeal was not wrong. In a judgment of 25 June 2018, it clearly states that "the State's care of accompanying pupils with disabilities is not limited to intervention time during school time" and that "access to extracurricular activities appears to be a necessary component of the child's care". Yet, Minister, none of the directors of the academic services of national education under your authority is in a position to do this. Because of the lack of resources to accommodate children and adolescents with disabilities in school, because of the lack of special facilities for those we know they may never be able to access the ordinary environment, and – worse still – because of the Government's abandonment of these institutions to the benefit of all-inclusive, we are facing dramatic, terrible situations in our constituencies. Parents feel abandoned; couples separate; children – this is scandalous – are sent away from home, to Belgium, for lack of solution; mothers – the case is common – have to stop working, losing all their acquired rights at the same time – and I pass it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u176	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u177	In such situations, we also see extraordinary initiatives: parents unite to bring happiness to their children by allowing them to establish friendships with other children with disabilities. But these moments, of which I have witnessed, are precarious; Above all, they are far from being favoured by a genuine inclusive policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] Minister, I do not blame you for not having been able to solve all the problems in a year. I fully understand that the scale of the work makes this goal impossible. But what I blame you for is letting parents believe that they could benefit from a solution for their children from the start: by doing this, you have caused even more despair. If I am led to tell you this today, if you are faced with such difficulties, it is because the inclusive school does not decree! It will only be possible if – and only if – properly assessed compensation, with the required quality, is provided to children with disabilities. It will only be possible if we accept the idea that it is not to include these children in the system as it is, but to transform it in depth so that it becomes inclusive in itself. Yes, Minister, if the school is to be inclusive, it is not enough to act on the child, it is also necessary to act on the common law systems that accommodate them – otherwise the system is flickering and even becoming ill-contracted for children with disabilities and for foster care. This is particularly the case for teachers and attendants who have not necessarily received training to adapt to all types of disabilities and to all levels of education. A scientific terminal student with Asperger's syndrome does not require the same accompaniment as a blind child in the first year of kindergarten. Yet today, the same AESH can end up accompanying one or the other... When we think about the adaptation of the school to the handicap, we still too often think about the adaptation of the buildings and the adjustments to be made to make them accessible. Of course, this is indispensable; In fact, the law has made this adjustment compulsory. However, this is only a first step: it is far from sufficient. The purpose of this bill is precisely to remedy all these shortcomings. It aims to put an end to the malaise among professionals who accompany students with disabilities and make the school more inclusive. We should all agree on these common-sense proposals to move inclusion forward. The aim is to achieve greater clarity by grouping all accompanying persons under a single statute, eliminating the distinction between AVS and AESH, which is not justified. The aim is to develop skills by introducing a degree course for the accompanying persons, which enables them to adapt to the particular situations of each child and of each disability, by providing effective support from kindergarten to secondary school – or even to university or vocational training. The aim is to provide all children, during school time and throughout their lives outside their home, with support adapted to their needs. Yes, Minister, we want to succeed in inclusion. To do this, we still need to work together to overcome the obstacles these children and their parents face, to get out of the long distance of the combatant who too often resembles the life of a person with a disability. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to be constructive. We must be aware that, despite all our will, problems persist. I therefore invite you to work with us in reviewing all the articles of this bill by our colleague, Aurélien Pradié.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u178	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u179	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the inclusion of pupils with disabilities addresses a real problem: accompanying disabled children during their schooling. This support has been too unsatisfactory for too long, so we can only welcome the fact that the national representation is taking on this issue, which the Government has been working hard on for the past year with a policy aimed at making the school more inclusive. However, this text, which we examined last week in committee, does not give the appropriate answers to the statement made by the rapporteur. It's a real problem. This year, 340,000 children with disabilities must attend school, and 175,000 of them require support. The latter figure is 6 per cent higher than in the previous year. The first days of the school year revealed a balance of delays and dysfunctions that we cannot satisfy. Questions of timing and continuity of support are particularly prominent. It is our responsibility to continue to work to improve the reception of these children, in line with the measures taken by Jean-Michel Blanquer and Sophie Cluzel. Because government policy is ambitious: creation of 3,500 AESH posts for the school year, assistance to families, development of ULIS and new teaching tools for teachers, etc. The support of students with disabilities requires a comprehensive and coherent approach, which Sophie Cluzel carries with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u180	With conviction, but without results!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u181	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] In this context, the Republicans' bill does not seem to us to meet current needs. It aims to respond to the difficulties encountered during the re-entry period, but fails to formulate appropriate provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u182	It's crazy to hear that! You didn't read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u183	Its first two articles are aimed at putting in place existing arrangements. The convergence of the statutes called for by the rapporteur in Article 1 is already under way: these are the AESHs. We have indeed entered a phase of transition and gradual conversion of the various old statutes to this unique status. Of course, efforts still have to be made to recognise these personnel, both in terms of consideration and remuneration, but the depth of the changes that have taken place over the past year should not be overlooked: the shift from a logic of recourse to assisted contracts to a logic of professionalisation, with the recruitment of AESH, is a strong measure. We fully agree with you on the need for specific training for accompanying students with disabilities – a subject that you discuss in Article 2. However, I would remind you that such a course already exists: it is the state diploma of educational and social accompanying – DEAES. As the Minister pointed out, this diploma includes a specialty of "inclusive education and ordinary life." The validation of experience gains – VAE – is also already practiced. Article 2 nevertheless reflects the lack of visibility of this training. It is clear that it is necessary to work, not to juxtapose identical training offers, but to improve the readability of training, trades and careers of persons with disabilities. Article 3, on the other hand, seems to us to be confusing. BAFA is a non-qualifying and non-professionalizing diploma, unrelated to the occupation of accompanying children with disabilities. In fact, the hearings revealed the AESH's reluctance to do so. In order to improve the recognition and professionalization of HSEAs, the training offered to them must be commensurate with the issues at stake. The question of the time limit, dealt with in Article 4, was important, but the proposed answer posed a legal problem. The four-month response period imposed on the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities is a regulatory and non-legislative provision. Third-party effectiveness at a school...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u184	Not in the school itself, in the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u185	... a decision that is not within its jurisdiction, but a decision of a CDMH, is also a problem. Finally, it should be noted that the wide disparity in the situations encountered by the CDMHs in different departments makes it difficult to achieve uniform shorter deadlines throughout the country. I myself was present on the Board of Directors of the CDMH in my department last Friday: the current deadline is about 120 days. However, I fully agree that shortening response times and ensuring a solution for each child on the day of school start must be top priorities. We therefore have a real job to do with the Government and the departments to achieve these objectives. Article 5 touches on a fundamental point for the Democratic Movement: the continuity of the child's accompaniment. Providing children with disabilities with a response that allows them not to suffer from break-ups during the same day is a priority. To achieve this, all the actors involved in the administrative, school and extracurricular life of the student must be placed around a table in order to provide a coherent and articulated solution. The coordination of the actors in the accompaniment proposed by this text would therefore represent an interesting step forward, a real qualitative leap for students with disabilities. Nevertheless, as drafted, this article poses a terminological problem: it is contradictory to speak of "inclusion" and "specialisation" at the same time. That would add to the confusion. That is why we will be presenting an amendment to remedy this contradiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u186	Article 6, on the other hand, is wrong in supporting out-of-contract schools. It is a rise in the supply of accompaniment in public schools and in private schools under contract that must be tackled: that is where inclusion must take place. This bill is therefore not a satisfactory response to the problem of accompanying students with disabilities. However, it has the great merit of allowing national representation to discuss this central issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u187	Unfortunately, we will not debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u188	We ask only that: debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u189	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement wishes to take this opportunity to recall three important principles which, according to our political family, must guide our reflection. First, public policies must take into account the different levels of disability in order to direct the child towards the structure that will be best for him/her. Contacts between disabled and non-disabled children should be sought as far as possible, but the placement of disabled children in schools as a matter of principle could also be detrimental to them. It's a situation that I know well, and that we don't talk about enough. Customization is therefore the key. Secondly, it is essential to think about accompanying people with disabilities – whether they are children or adults – in terms of their journeys. Continuity of the journey, i.e. the fight against ruptures, must be a priority: an experiment in this direction is currently taking place in my department. This priority must play at every stage of life, in the continuity of the Piveteau report and the "zero without solution" approach, but also at the child's day scale. From this point of view, we see section 5 of this bill as a step forward. Thirdly, on this issue, it is important not to demagogy by proposing existing or legally failing mechanisms. I repeat once again: it is commendable that this bill highlights this crucial issue for so many families, but we must take the time to build up responses to the situation. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote in favour of this text, but calls on this House – in particular the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education – to address this issue. We will then be able to conduct in-depth discussions on the inclusion of students with disabilities, organise hearings, and then, when solid proposals have emerged, present them in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u190	There's no need to ask: they don't want to debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u191	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u192	Mr Minister, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to reiterate my thanks to our colleague, Mr Aurélien Pradié, for the work he has done. It is thanks to him that we come together to discuss a very important topic: school inclusion, and more specifically the human accompaniment of students with disabilities. We know, Mr. Minister, that you and Mrs. Cluzel have the firm will to move forward on this matter. The recent decree of 27 July 2018 is a proof of commitment: it represents an additional step in the accompaniment of students with disabilities. Thank you. 341,000 students are disabled. Some are in specialized institutions, because this reception is more appropriate for them. Many others go to school and today, 175,000 of them can benefit from a companion. We are therefore all concerned, both on the Government's side and on our side, parliamentarians as we are. We have a responsibility to debate this subject, as we will have to discuss, I hope, specialised institutions at a later stage, which are not sufficient or inadequate. Student accompaniment has already been a reality for several years, but we all know that much remains to be done, whether it be children, families or companions. Since 2005, this support allows many young people with disabilities to find their place in school, to grow, to evolve, to learn, to build themselves, to have a social life, to share. This sharing allows everyone to enrich each other and prepare for a true inclusive society for tomorrow – because it is also about the citizen values that we want to convey to our children through school. How could we talk about inclusion in society, of professional inclusion, if not everything is done for school inclusion? We all know that school is a crucial moment for all of us: it is at school that we learn to live together. However, there is no social inclusion without citizenship. In our Republic, emancipation and self-fulfilment go through school. So here we are facing a real question of society: in the end, what Republic do we want? What values do our thinking and decisions respond to? Taking action to improve the inclusion of students with disabilities also means working for equal opportunities. It is now up to us, the Government and the National Assembly, beyond our political colours, to improve the support of these students. It is a noble task, but so heavy a responsibility. There is also the question of the recruitment and training of accompanying persons. In this regard, I prefer the term "accompanied" to the term "helper", because it is a matter of accompanying these students at school, certainly by helping them, but also by supporting them and valuing what they can do alone. For many years, most of the attendants were recruited from among those eligible for an assisted contract and trained in the field. This is still often the case today, but to a lesser extent: the unique status is in progress and the decree of 2018 has consolidated the training to adapt to employment. However, we believe in the need for longer training, with two levels of qualification, as is the result of one of my amendments adopted by the rapporteur. Other important issues remain, such as their working time and, above all, their wages. Do you know, Minister, that at the present time, a companion with twelve years of seniority, who has held national education for six years, having signed a contract of twenty-seven hours – but actually working thirty hours forty-five a week to compensate for school holidays – having acquired experience in kindergarten, primary school, college, high school and even in BTS, earns only 815 euros net! A lot of accompanying people, besides, only have twenty-four-hour contracts: you can imagine the amount of their salary... This bill also has the benefit of addressing other issues on which it would be interesting to come back and continue our discussions: the role of departmental houses for disabled people, the difficulties they face – as well as the departmental councils: the two issues are linked – the beginning of care, the deadlines. As a former school principal, I have been confronted many times about disability in all its forms. It is therefore important to bear in mind, as I said in committee, that certain handicaps, the so-called "dys" disorders – according to their prefix – autism, and others, are often detected in school without being visible from the first day of school. However, article 4 of the draft law seems, unfortunately, to deal exclusively with motor handicaps. The distinction between the various handicaps would, however, make it possible to provide support as close to the child as possible, and above all more suitable. The educational path, to which I would withdraw the adjective "specialised", is extremely interesting and important, it is absolutely necessary that we move quickly, because the path will be long, we do not hide it. Following a sharing of experience in Stockholm on this subject, I was admired by the ability in this country to bring together all the members of the teams in contact with children, from accompanying persons, doctors, parents, speech therapists, educators and local authorities, as well as teachers, who will have to be listened to and placed at the centre of our discussions, in order to take into account the needs of these children and their capacity for autonomy in general. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] The IUD, Acting and Independent Group therefore wants to consider this bill. It is necessary to place the student's interest at the centre of our debates, in order to improve the environment in which he or she operates with his or her disability, while at the same time valuing what he or she knows how to do and can achieve on his or her own. We share, Mr rapporteur, your belief in the need for action to improve the inclusion of students with disabilities, a conviction that I know how to be shared equally by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u193	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u194	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this bill with a difficult subject which must be dealt with all over the world. The inclusion policy is now adopted following various international declarations that have had applications in domestic law. Thus, in 1994, following a global conference on special educational needs, the Salamanca Declaration, signed by representatives of ninety-two countries and twenty-five organizations, stated that "those with special educational needs must have access to ordinary schools", stating that placing such children in regular schools "is the most effective way to combat discriminatory attitudes, by creating welcoming communities, and by building an inclusive society". Similarly, in 2006, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities calls on its 161 signatory states to ensure that "people with disabilities have access to inclusive, quality and free primary education and secondary education on an equal footing with other communities". It is true that at the time this was not the tradition of our country, since we had established special education for these audiences. But we have evolved since these principles were affirmed. Thus, in the Guidance Act of 1989, and especially in the Fillon Act of 2005, the equal rights and opportunities for these pupils were enshrined in order to enable them to attend school in the school nearest to their home. The number of such children attending regular schools has thus tripled over the past 10 years. First of all, we must salute the teachers, who have been able to meet this challenge – by obviously changing their professional practices. It should also be noted that this school path is possible because the children are accompanied by school life assistants – now known as "accompanied students with disabilities" –, long-term staff hired in assisted contracts, for some in three-year-old CSDs renewed once only. The fact that they changed regularly not only could upset the children they were following, but also meant losing the gain in the training effort they had been able to make, for example, to understand autism or to know Braille. This is why the decree of 27 June 2014 on the status of AVS recognised as a real profession what was then considered only as a function, moreover exercised under conditions of total precariousness. Now, after the second contract, AESH must be offered a CDI at least equal to the previous contract. A specialized State diploma in educational and social support has also been established, and persons who have held these positions for two years are exempted from them. This is already a significant step forward. But AESH's job often remains in the form of a precarious contract, part-time and therefore little paid, i.e. 20 hours a week for 873 euros in most cases, and without any real career progression. It is desirable, even in the interests of children, that the AESHs should be given greater recognition of their profession and that there should be a massive tenure of those already in office, but also full-time contracts, a revalorisation of wages and the creation of a real and recognised status giving prospects for professional development. On the contrary, the drastic decline in the number of aided contracts decided by the Government last year, and again this year, has a negative impact on the sector, particularly with regard to the possibilities of entering the profession; Some people have even lost their jobs. Similarly, according to the union organizations we met, the July 2018 decree, which showed the desire to increase the AESH pool, lowered recruitment requirements and denied the need to make it a real specialty. In this context, Mr Pradie has wished to contribute to the solution of the problems encountered in this sector. It proposes solutions for the inclusion of children and adolescents with disabilities in the Republican school, and wishes to give a unified status to the accompanying students. Of course, this bill has the merit of drawing attention to this very difficult problem and offering us an opportunity to discuss it. For our part, we have been able to move forward in committee as the term "accompanied", to which staff are attached, has been retained in preference to the term "helper" originally provided for in the bill. But your recommendations, Mr rapporteur, are often in line with existing arrangements. Thus, in Article 1, you plan the possibility for staff to accompany students during school outings when this already exists: the AESH participate in school outings – perhaps not enough, but it is already included in their repositories. In addition, you are taking up a proposal that I know is supported by several associations, namely a harmonised division of the missions of the AESH between school and out-of-school. But it should be noted that the addition of school time and extracurricular time leads to very long days for agents. Moreover, this should not exempt other organizing structures from extra-curricular or extra-curricular activities from training their members also in the various handicaps. With regard to the possibility that you would like to offer school inclusiveers to pass BAFA during their training, I would like to point out that many of them already have BAFA. Would it not be more relevant if the staff of sports clubs, leisure centres and others were also trained in the various handicaps? Rather, I repeat, the inclusive vision that we are advocating for expanded training for other staff in extra-curricular and extra-curricular activities. With regard to the CDMH, it is currently the Committee on Rights and Autonomy, within the departmental house of disabled persons, which finds that the student requires or does not require individual assistance. We all agree, it is often very long, even after the opinion has been delivered. You wish, Mr rapporteur, that the requests should be dealt with within a maximum of two months. Of course, I can only join you on reducing the processing time; But it seems to me, again, that it is above all a question of means. With regard to the creation of the "personalised inclusive route", a close mechanism already exists since the personalized school enrolment project and the school assessment guide were created by the 2013 School Refoundation Act: on the basis of the identified needs, the multidisciplinary team of the Commission on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities is in fact developing a personalized school enrolment project taking into account the wishes of the child or adolescent; the same law has created the personalized accompanying plan for students with serious and lasting school difficulties in connection with a learning disorder. It would therefore be a matter of improving the living conditions of existing texts in order to remedy the difficulties that you stress. Finally, we have a point of disagreement when you propose that out-of-contract schools have the opportunity to appeal to the AESHs. We have indeed found that some of them give rise to worrying drifts. When you deplore the lack of resources, that is correct: the shortage of financial resources creates insecurity among staff, and this shortage is aggravated by the considerable increase in the number of children involved. We need a fair re-evaluation of the attendants. First of all, we interpret your text, Mr. Pradié, as an appeal to the Government to deal with the subject even better, to speed up the realization of this inclusive school that we call for. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] All we can wish for is a better understanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u195	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u196	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, I welcome this bill by our colleagues, the Republicans, on helping – or accompanying – school inclusion. The subject is worth it, both for young people with disabilities and their families and for the caregivers who support them in their schooling. When I was on the Committee on Cultural Affairs, I had asked for a flash mission on the subject, a request which had of course been rejected. However, the subject was part of the current state of affairs of the Government. Indeed, Minister, you keep reminding us that school inclusion is a top priority and that the President of the Republic is committed to ensuring that every student with a disability is supported. Of course, nothing is specified in terms of the deadline... maybe in five years, because, as my colleague François Ruffin mentioned, and also, by the way, the excellent report of last June on human aid for students with disabilities, the waiting list for this assistance is long. And I'm not talking about the complexity of the procedure to ask for it! But you see, minister, I will not make you feel sorry for this expectation. Since the start of 2017, you have created 8000 new AESH jobs, which complement the 50,000 assisted contracts, including the single integration contracts and the 22000 existing AESH. I noted that in the 2018 budget, you had doubled the appropriations allocated to the AESH in CSD or CDI, and put in place a green number. But, of course, all these efforts are not enough to bridge the chronic gap between demand for human aid and supply. Although human aid has increased fivefold from 2006 to 2017, i.e. since the law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, it is not able to respond to the sharp increase, over the same period, in the schooling of young people with disabilities: from 100,000 pupils in 2006, it rose to 320,000 in 2017. And this figure continues to grow: more than 13% each year. The famous report I mentioned, which was the result of a mission led jointly by the general inspections of your ministry and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, questions the reasons why the teaching teams, and even the parents, are asking for the establishment of human aid rather than other forms of support that may be more appropriate – probably also lack medical and educational institutes, which would explain these permanent traffic jams, but that is another subject. The report also notes, on a watermark, that the conditions under which these jobs are to be carried out, which should become trades, are frankly not attractive. We have already mentioned the precariousness, the half-time, the miserable wages – the report mentions for its part a 60-hour training, which arrives too late, and the lack of continuing training – and with all this, in the long run, no prospect of evolution. Is it useful to recall the history that leads to this situation? At the beginning, it is AEDs – education assistants – or students who carry out these missions, then they are assistant to assisted contracts, which are therefore intended to integrate into employment, and, today, there are also AESHs. Each of these jobs is governed by a different status, by a different employer and is allowed, as the case may be, to carry out different tasks – individual/mutualised or collective support; authorization to accompany outings or outings, etc. It's the jungle. That is why this famous report addresses the subject of this bill, namely, in its own words, page 29: "From now on, the number of accompanying personnel reaches a level that forces us to reflect on a more permanent and built-up status. " It recognises the need for increased professionalisation and development prospects for staff. Tell me why, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not take advantage of this bill to move forward on these matters?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u197	Yes! Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u198	I ask the question, because I obviously learned that a motion of rejection had been tabled... Why deprive oneself of the opportunity for a substantive debate? With this report, however, we had the right to amend, to clarify and to elaborate on all these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u200	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LR group]] On the status: should contractual or tenure posts be created? Contracts under public or private law? Related to national education or, as is sometimes mentioned, to the territorial civil service? With regard to training, Mr Minister, you have pointed out that there is now a DEAES with an inclusive education option, but should we create an initial sector offering prospects for evolution, as some collectives are asking for, or because of the professionalisation of the activity? And what about continuing education for a good knowledge of the child's disorders? As for the missions, should they be carried out individually, collectively or in ULIS? Do we need specific statutes? What would be, depending on the answers given, the link with teachers and families? In short, all these issues could have been discussed. At least you see the work leads. This report is full of conclusions and proposals that we could have debated to translate them into the law. Our group, La France insoumée, has made proposals to this effect. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, minister, prefer to say no to everything from a bloc. I find it foolish: foolish for young people and their families, who are waiting for qualified and fully recognized caregivers, foolish for these caregivers, waiting for stability and gratitude. But I warn you: if one day you decide to take up this subject, that is, to think about a real policy on school inclusion, you will have to consider it in terms of quantity and quality. And so it will have a cost. Maybe that's why you step back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u201	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u202	Madam President, the rapporteur, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for too many years, improving access to schooling for students with disabilities has been a recurring demand of families. It is also a requirement of equality, which appeared at the top of the stack of promises of candidate Emmanuel Macron. Now in the year II of Macronia, there is no need to recall that immense progress is needed: at the beginning of 2018, more than 750 reports were recorded, more than double that last year. Every day, many families alert us in our ridings, many AESH also... For compensation only: a green number. This bill, though imperfect, has the merit of addressing the issue. Minister, yesterday, in questions to the Government, you said that "the policy of welcoming students with disabilities [...] deserves to be brought together." This is what we are going to do to bring about this beautiful idea of an inclusive school that, when possible, is a tremendous promise of the future for society as a whole. I would like to take advantage of this debate, even if it is not mentioned in the bill, to stress the need to create additional places in medical and educational institutions in cases where inclusion is not possible. Since the inclusion law, there has been an increase in the number of students with disabilities. From 2004 to 2015, the number of pupils in schools with disabilities increased from 210000 to 350,000, an increase of 66%. It is therefore a challenge. Schooling your disabled child is often similar to a combatant's or combatant's journey. The agreement of the CDMH does not automatically allow the child concerned to be monitored by an AESH. In this respect, the 2005 law is clear: it is a right, the effectiveness of which requires, you do not mind, additional financial and human resources for the CDMH. This subject deserves better than incantations. In order for the right to education to be realized, there is a need for unwavering parental involvement. However, many sociologists agree that this requires time and resources, but also – and above all – cultural capital. As a result, almost half of mothers stop working, and this is unbearable. Even today, the transformation of the few assisted contracts retained in AESH is too weak. Realizing the beautiful idea of inclusive school also requires making the accompanying occupation attractive. That seems to me to be the subject of this bill. The main reason why national education is difficult to recruit, but also to retain its recruits, is that the fixed-term contracts of the AESH are precarious and unattractive contracts: part-time paid to the SMIC, salary of 700 euros per month on average, six renewed CDDs necessary to be able to claim an indefinite contract, uncertainty of renewal, and I move on. It can be said that the few protections that still exist in labour law are not always respected in the case of AESHs. Moreover, according to the AESH France collective, not only would the CDI passages become increasingly rare, but the CDI of AESH would not provide any certainty as to the level of the hourly quotities worked. Unfortunately, the list of grievances is very long: these difficulties do not make the profession attractive. The accompanying missions of students with disabilities are entrusted to staff who fall under two different statutes – the AESH and the AVS – but perform the same tasks, while their recruitment is different. Mr rapporteur, Article 1 of your bill provides for the creation of an accompanying status to replace all the others. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has tabled an amendment aimed at minimizing the possibility of the AESH becoming full-fledged civil servants, in order to be able to benefit from genuine training and protection. This would have the effect of increasing both the income of the AESH, but also of valuing their action within the national education system. That deserves reflection. The State must empower itself to carry out the inclusive school by enabling its staff to live decently in a secure working environment. This security of status contributes to our sense of inclusive school effectiveness, because caring for a student with a disability requires an intense personal investment – the word is weak – that is not compatible with daily concerns about material or financial issues. Furthermore, the so-called invisibles of national education do not receive any specific training on disability. Today, a companion – or a companion – can be called overnight, without having received any training, and sometimes even without knowing the nature of the student's disability that he or she will have to accompany. The IGAS report submitted to the Government last June stresses this need for training. In fact, if the AESHs are recruited at the baccalaureate level, the accompanying staff in assisted contracts may have no diploma. If they are responsible for accompanying children in everyday activities, they must also help them to follow teachings. Article 2 is intended to create genuine training, recognised by the State. The GDR Group would even like to go further, if it has the opportunity to discuss it: teachers must also receive training on disability, in order to be able to adapt the educational project to all students in the class. In addition, we strongly oppose section 6 of the proposed law, which opens the possibility of making use of those accompanying school inclusion in out-of-contract schools. We consider, and this position is not dogmatic, that this article runs counter to the idea of an inclusive school. To encourage the employment of educators in a private non-contracted establishment is indeed to acknowledge the resignation of the State from its mission of inclusion. In fact, we see the growth of out-of-contract private schools that offer, in the face of a failing public school, to welcome students with disabilities: this does not correspond to the idea that we have of inclusive school. In short, although imperfect, this bill has the merit of looking at the alarming situation of the AESH-AVS and working for a truly inclusive school. So we see it as a plus, both for children and families and for accompanying them. They and they really need it. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] If he had had the opportunity, which certainly will not be the case, the Communist Group would have voted in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u203	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-11-O1014.u204	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on the inclusion of pupils with disabilities; Further to the discussion of the proposal for a law defending the right to property and creating an offence of occupation without the right or title of a building; Discussion of the bill to consolidate the French model of blood donation; Discussion of the bill to create a register of rare or orphan diseases. The meeting is adjourned.
