ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u1	The next item is the final reading of the draft law on the protection of personal data (No. 903).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u2	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u3	Mr President, Madam rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, dear Paula Forteza, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 45 of the Constitution, the National Assembly is now seized, for final reading, of the draft law on the protection of personal data. As we have said on several occasions, this is the result of a work carried out for several years at European level and, for months, in our country. We are therefore at a time when the European deadlines are coming to an end and we are going to have to apply two protective Community texts for our citizens; two texts which must also be seen as a favourable opportunity for those involved in our economic and social life, particularly for our businesses. I would like to point out that this final reading comes after parliamentary work which has really contributed to the improvement of the text. This work will also have enabled everyone to measure the paradigm shift in the application of the general regulation on the protection of personal data – GDPR – and the accompanying directive. From this point of view, too, the debate in both assemblies will have kept all its promises. I would like to pay particular tribute to the work carried out by your rapporteur, Paula Forteza, who has spared neither his time nor his energy to listen to each other and to draw paths between different aspirations by keeping at each stage of the procedure a level of demand commensurate with the stakes. Thus, after rich exchanges, we are leading to a law that allows us to affirm that computer science, yesterday, and digital technology, today, remain "at the service of every citizen", as proclaimed in article 1 of the Act of 6 January 1978. After the new reading, the positions of the two chambers are still remote on certain points, such as the creation of a specific allocation for local and regional authorities, the exemption from pecuniary penalties for those same authorities, the overtransposition of the directive for certain data processing, the shift in the products of fines and periodic penalty payments issued by the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL), the open data of court decisions, the age of children's consent with regard to the services of the information society. The text presented reflects the choices that were mainly those of the National Assembly, without, however, neglecting those of the Senate. It is a faithful and ambitious translation of the European package of measures for data protection reform. You have thus made the choice of coherence, a choice that the Government would like to welcome. Indeed, the text resulting from the re-reading of your Assembly best reflects the logic of the European Data Protection Regulation and that of the directive that we have to transpose. The aim is to empower those involved in the processing of personal data without overtransposing Union law. It is also a matter of maintaining the strong protections provided by the CNIL, which has powerful sanctions and periodic penalty powers when necessary. By choosing the age of fifteen for the consent of minors, you have been keen to bring the requirement of protecting the interests of the child closer to the reality of digital practices. Finally, you maintain your will to strengthen the capacity of the parliamentary opposition to seize the CNIL, through the group chairmen, whatever they may be. As I recall, this provision was ruled out by the Senate at first reading and again. On 25 May, in less than 12 days, the personal data of the French and, beyond that, of all Europeans will be much better protected. The French may not realize this immediately, but this will be the case. The Government and CNIL will stand alongside those implementing these new rules. I know, and the press echoes this, that economic actors – in particular small and medium-sized enterprises – but also local and regional authorities have raised real concerns and concerns about this important change in regulation. I know that you have paid close attention to this by constantly insisting on the need to pay close attention to the situation of SMEs or to the essential strengthening of mutualisations for local authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With the combined effect of the European regulation and also of our 1978 law, our citizens will benefit from new or strengthened rights. Everyone will have to assimilate this new legal framework and, beyond that, this new way of thinking about how companies and citizens should make good use of personal data. I am convinced that with this text, we will be able to celebrate the forty years of the 1978 law with dignity by placing it in a European framework, while remaining faithful to its original spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u5	Mrs Paula Forteza, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u6	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the growing challenges related to digital technology and the protection of personal data, in the face of the ever-increasing scandals, fuelling the feeling that impunity prevails and that states allow, Europe is now seen as a model to be followed by many countries. Why? What is the essence of the new regulatory framework that makes it unique and which, in my view, is its most promising condition? It is that the European Data Protection Regulation foreshadows a new digital governance through which society as a whole will be able to decide the directions to be taken and democracy will be able to take over. Policy makers wanted to put in place new rights, control mechanisms, remedies that will make it possible to establish real counter-powers, to restore the power to act to make users able to control their personal data and, more broadly, their online activity. Compulsory consent, right to data portability, right to forget, right to rectification, new protections for minors, possibility to take group actions to obtain redress... I will not go back to the choices that have been ours, which we have explained on several occasions, and which are at this stage known to all. The time for theoretical discussion of the main principles and mechanisms to be implemented has passed. We are now at the implementation stage, which exposes us to new problems and new dangers. We have developed a powerful legal arsenal: we cannot afford a discount application, below the ambitions that have been politically displayed. The slope would be too difficult to climb, the work done for many years would be lost. The risk is real: it is now that we must remain vigilant, and we must remain vigilant in the coming weeks and months. Over the past few weeks, we have all received emails and notifications from online platforms, applications and services seeking our consent to be in compliance with the GDPR as of May 25. However, we are already observing numerous breaches of the rules laid down in the Regulation for the collection of this consent, which must be given "by a clear positive act by which the data subject manifests in a free, specific, informed and unequivocal manner his agreement to the processing of personal data concerning him". However, we sometimes have to deal with simple updates to the general conditions of use, the content of which is still too technical, too complex or even incomprehensible for most users. In some cases, a master's degree in law is needed to understand them! Similarly, some interfaces and "user paths" are developed to promote quick and poorly informed consent through decision-making incentives, or nudge. In such cases, the click is fatigue, not conviction. We also observe blackmail strategies at the service, through which platforms condition access to their services to the consent of users to the collection and processing of their personal data. Such a practice is clearly prohibited by the GDPR, which pursues an objective of minimizing data. Finally, we observe violations of the principle of privacy by design, when pre-coded boxes or default settings do not offer the most protective options for personal data. The CNIL and all the regulatory bodies of the European Union will therefore have to play their part in ensuring that the spirit of the text is respected in all situations, including those we have not yet considered. For this purpose, CNIL has new investigative powers and the possibility of imposing considerable financial penalties, since they could amount to up to 4% of the company's worldwide turnover. It is therefore the case law that will set the level of ambition to which we can claim collectively, but this will require sufficient resources for the CNIL. We will ensure that this is done as part of the review of the next finance bill. But civil society will also have a role to play. Moreover, it has already begun to mobilise itself with initiatives that must be welcomed inasmuch as they give life to the rights, controls and remedies established by the text – counter-powers essential for its implementation to be effective. Some examples? The GDPR Book Club, a book club open to all to study and understand the issues of the text in a collective way; the GDPR Observatory, a Twitter account that follows and collects examples of violations of the General Data Protection Regulation; the Feast of Digital Liberties, a day of practical workshops to learn how to seize new rights such as the right to portability, held on 25 May, on the occasion of the entry into force of the text; collective actions carried out by associations; forums and self-help sites to compliance to developers, whose number is exploding... Finally, it is the citizens themselves who will also have to remain vigilant. What can we do as users? Read carefully the general terms of use – CGU – and give our consent only to what we feel is right. If the choice does not seem sufficiently broad, the right to portability will allow us to recover our personal data in order to transfer them to another, more ethical, and more protective service of personal data. There are already many, including French, such as the tools and applications of Framasoft, Cozy Cloud or Qwant, to name but a few. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So today we are voting for an ambitious text within the framework of a regulation that we can be proud of as Europeans, but that is just the beginning. It will be up to all of us, politicians, regulators, civil society and citizens, to make it live and ensure that its level of ambition remains intact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u7	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u8	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, the draft law on the protection of personal data is therefore coming back for a third and final reading in the National Assembly. Last April, during the new reading in front of our room, the Cambridge Analytica-Facebook scandal had just burst. We would then alert you, as we had done at first reading, about the significant risks of the use of our personal data by digital giants – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft, the GAFAM – or – this is the case for Cambridge Analytica – the use they allow themselves to make of it. While suspicions of mass manipulations based on mass and unconsented collection of personal data are breaking the chronicle and raising fundamental democratic questions, the last draft of the text proposed by the Government remains stubbornly unsatisfactory. We said it first and again, and we say it again: the bill does not provide the democratic weapons needed to combat the failures and manipulations of mass and uncontrolled data collection. The reform leaves very large Internet companies the freedom to profit from our privacy. For these companies, some of which make profits equivalent to the GDP of a state, the penalties provided for in the draft law, if by chance the CNIL carries out a check, are lucrative sums, which they will be easily provided for in their annual budgets. This is the case, for example, with Amazon. The fortune of its CEO, Jeff Bezos, valued at US$132 billion, is higher than Hungary's GDP. Amazon Web Services, one of its subsidiaries, allows other companies to access the data banks of users of one of Amazon's branches. Jeff Bezos is particularly interested in the development of artificial intelligence, i.e. programs with the ability to learn on their own. Its ambition is to make them available to Amazon Web Services' client companies so that they no longer need to have a data processing program themselves, and that it adapts to their specific needs. This shows the combination of Amazon's economic weight, the massive collection of customer data, and the resale of information to third-party companies. In the face of this situation, effective and powerful supervisory bodies are needed to ensure that these transactions on our data respect privacy. This is a major issue, which even forces us to rethink the framework for democracy in the twenty-first century. That is why, since the debates in committee, and while we are positive about the progress made in the text, we have advocated amendments aimed at strengthening CNIL's competence and ensuring that it acts for the general interest, not under the influence of the lobbys of the major digital companies. Almost all of them were rejected by the majority. The passage to the Senate had made it possible to add several changes in line with the line we had defended in the National Assembly: the publication of the rules of algorithmic treatment which had been used to base the decision, the obligation to have clear and easily accessible language concerning the collection of personal data for minors under sixteen years of age, and the strengthening of encryption measures for the benefit of individuals. Once again, the majority were reluctant to exercise in Parliament. Almost all of the amendments adopted at first reading in the Senate were rebutted. It did not reach an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee and did not take into account – or in a very sweetened manner – the text voted by the Senate at second reading. This contempt for representative democratic procedures and for parliamentary work leads to a text that clearly goes back to the evolution of the personal data market. Given its human and financial resources, the CNIL will not be able to ensure a real systematic post-clearance check – an option that you have finally chosen – when the authorisation system requires an examination. The text thus contributes to the liberalisation of the trade in personal data, to the detriment of the protection of our private lives, thus of democracy. This paradigm shift is a choice of national policy, since the European directive leaves the Member States open in this area. The Government must take responsibility for these political choices, instead of defeating either the Constitutional Council or the European Union or both. As you will understand, we will not be voting on the bill, even though, once again, our group and movement recognize the extraordinary potential for social, democratic, environmental and scientific progress of a not-for-profit and properly anonymized data collection. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] A digital revolution for all at the service of the general interest: it is imperative to invest this legislative field, because that is where the new tools of participation, autonomy and collective decision-making are invented and invented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u9	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u10	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly has before it for a final reading this text, which aims to adapt the 1978 "Informatique et Libertés" law to the European package of measures for a reform of the protection of personal data, within the very tight deadlines that we know. During the parliamentary shuttle, the positions of our two chambers remained quite far away. Despite some ad hoc advances on technical matters, our Assembly has essentially maintained its version of the text. We have had the opportunity to stress this in previous readings, the reform provides additional guarantees for the protection of personal data. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the territorial scope of the European rules on the protection of personal data, the strengthening of CNIL's powers, the increase in the amount of administrative fines or the expansion of group action. On the other hand, provisions still raise questions, such as taking into account the difficulties in implementing the GDPR for local and regional authorities. There are still other points of great concern to us, some of which are the subject of persistent disagreements with the Senate. I will insist on two of them. The first concerns treatment in criminal matters. We regret that the framework for open data on court decisions has been removed. Similarly, the reduction of people's right to information about their right to a judicial remedy is, in our view, a step backwards. The second point I want to stress is the automation of administrative decisions by algorithms. I have already had the opportunity to point out the crucial issues and the dangers of their extension. We therefore deplore the refusal of the parliamentary majority to support the improvements adopted by the Senate, aimed at allowing a stricter framework for the use of algorithms by the administration. Senators had appropriately removed the derogation from the rules of transparency laid down in the Code of Relations between the Public and Administration, to the benefit of the algorithms used by higher education institutions for the classification of candidates for admission in the first year, in the framework of the so-called "Courseup" procedure. In a confidential note published by the press last March, the General Inspectorate of the Administration of National Education and Research expressed concern about both the unpreparedness of certain faculties to select the files and the difference in the criteria adopted from one university to another, some of which are without legal basis. There is absolutely no justification for higher education institutions to derogate from the rules of transparency of algorithms. On the contrary, a right of control over these decisions is indispensable in order to avoid misunderstandings or feelings of injustice. As our fellow citizens aspire to greater transparency, the use of algorithms will only increase confidence in decisions. This insidious transition from a public service logic of assignment to higher education institutions to a logic that the public would be at the service of these institutions is incomprehensible, and indeed unacceptable. With the advent of the digital society, the issues relating to the protection of personal data take on a new dimension. Therefore, we sincerely regret that the bill has missed the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive review of personal data protection law, and to deepen the rights of individuals. As a result, we will abstain from this text, as we did at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u11	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u12	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the conclusion of the examination of the draft law on the protection of personal digital data. I sincerely thank all those who, on all these benches, have been involved in this text which is particularly important for each of our fellow citizens, for each of us, for the economic world and for all public services, from the state to the local authorities. I would like to add a special thanks for our rapporteur Paula Forteza. During the parliamentary shuttle, we approved the guidelines of the European Directive and the General Data Protection Regulation, without calling into question the general philosophy, and enriching their content, without overtransposition, but making appropriate use of the margin of manoeuvre left to each Member State by European law. For example, we will reduce from 16 to 15 years the age at which a minor can consent alone to the processing of data concerning him or her, we will strengthen the information of operators and users, we will clarify the conditions and minimum guarantees applicable to the implementation of algorithmic processing, we will ensure greater transparency of access to search engines, we will expand group action to redress material and moral damage, we will strengthen the protection of particularly sensitive data and we will improve the consideration of the specificities of small and medium-sized enterprises and local and regional authorities, to name but a few examples of the contribution of our discussions and the work we have conducted. This text is very important, since it concerns all of us and since recent cases have reminded us of the urgent need to punish serious abuses or misdeeds when they are found. It is up to all of us and all the actors on the ground to seize this text after its adoption and to pass it on to the operators and the general public as soon as possible, taking into account the imperatives of timing! In conclusion, it will be important to rapidly build the capacity of CNIL to meet its new missions. In this respect, his requests were not considered excessive by parliamentarians throughout the debate, and it seems to us essential to satisfy them if we are to give him the means to succeed in his transformation and to acquire fully this new culture, which will be enriched by his experience accumulated over the past forty years and his remarkable expertise. Let us also hope that the legal work carried out by the Ministry of Justice to simplify the reading and understanding of the text within the prescribed time frame and give full satisfaction. I do not forget that a decree will have to intervene in order to find solutions to the erasure of post-mortem data. It is also an expected measure. Finally, I thank the keeper of the seals and the Secretary of State, as well as their teams, for the quality of the relations and exchanges maintained throughout the legislative procedure. We can all be proud of the work that has been done to ensure that France remains a leader and a source of inspiration at European level on the sensitive issue of the protection of personal digital data. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We shall vote on this text in its final form.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u13	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u14	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered to consider, for final reading, the draft law on the protection of personal data which finalises the adaptation of the fifty-seven specific points of the ninety-nine articles of the GDPR adopted on 27 April 2016. It's more than time! Indeed, we are twelve days away from the entry into force of the GDPR in France, as everywhere in Europe. The fateful date of May 25 is approaching. Together with my colleague Philippe Gosselin, we have already had the opportunity to highlight the Government's lack of anticipation in the introduction of the transposition bill, highlighted by the accelerated procedure on 13 December. In the European field, in addition to the major statements and the fine speeches, it seems to me to be essential to attach great importance to ensuring that such important texts are adopted in serious and serene working conditions. These delays are all the more regrettable since France is a leading country in the field of personal data protection and since the CNIL is still chairing the famous G29 for a few weeks, before it becomes the European Data Protection Committee. In its opinion, CNIL regretted that it had "been seized so late" and that it "had not had the necessary time to examine such a text under acceptable conditions. This complaint was reiterated by the Council of State in its opinion, which stressed that "the impact assessment does not shed light, despite its volume, on the strategic choices that the Government has made". This has undoubtedly been a source of tension between the National Assembly and the Senate, which is regrettable, because our honourable senators often have interesting, relevant observations to make; on such an important text, which makes a major reversal of previous logics, they had interesting messages to address. It will be up to companies to demonstrate that they have had the necessary time and adaptability to implement the precautions and measures to ensure full respect for personal data. What is more, this laborious adoption – even if we reach the goal – will not allow us to have, by 25 May, a fully consolidated and legible regime, which will offer complete legal security to the tens of thousands of companies with more than 250 employees involved. The bill refers, inter alia, to section 20, an order, which questions national representation. We want to ensure that this order will respect the spirit of the text, will not lead to fragmentation of the law but will, on the contrary, ensure consistency between the different levels of legislation. Moreover, if referrals to the Constitutional Council were to be made, they would certainly serve to purge the text of any suspicion of unconstitutionality, but would introduce new grounds for uncertainty and concern, even though companies have already begun to obtain the consent of users. Similarly, the extension of group action to reparation of injury seems to be undertaken by associative actors, so even the text is not definitively stabilized. Certainly – as many speakers have said before me – it will take time to adapt. By way of amendments, in previous readings, the Republicans had carried the logic of mediation, in a spirit of pedagogy. Instead, we have been reassured by the fate of some of these amendments and by what has been said, but we will remain extremely vigilant. As the review of the text comes to an end, I want to reiterate the Republican Group's commitment to the balance found in the bill between, on the one hand, individual freedoms, the protection of citizens' personal data and, on the other hand, the economic interests of small, medium and large enterprises. We are taking a new step, with this European text and its application in French law, towards the consolidation of a single digital market in Europe. Of course, we are not naive, we are measuring the scale of the European yards, in particular, whether it is the taxation of GAFAs, the concordance between the US Cloud Act and Article 48 of the GDPR or the new challenges facing us. We hope that both the European legislator and the national legislators will continue to show determination in the real protection of citizens' data.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u15	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u16	We have all followed with great interest the patient work, obstinate by our colleague Éric Bothorel on article 17a, paragraph 2, to ensure a genuine choice for French users of mobile terminals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u17	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u18	We support this approach. We hope that the amendments that have been tabled will succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any event, I reiterate the favourable opinion of the Republicans on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u19	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u20	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of personal data is a major issue, on which – we can be proud – the European Union is acting as a precursor – just like France, a few decades ago. It is this European dimension that gives full force to this text. It will make the European Union a security area for citizens, and an attractive territory for businesses thanks to a real readability of the rules. At the first meeting, in this forum, I tried to convince the need for and importance of this text, in particular through concrete examples. I have been heard beyond my expectations, as the press echoes the bill every day – sometimes, it is true, worrying our fellow citizens and businesses. I hope that our work, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, will inform, reassure and protect our fellow citizens. In any case, I would like to state solemnly that this text does not constitute an unnecessary additional threat or constraint, but provides absolute and necessary protection to the whole Union, its inhabitants and its undertakings. Indeed, just a few days before the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation, the adoption of this bill is necessary. We believe that this text is balanced, respecting both our European commitments and the French specificities; It is the result of a consensus in our Assembly which we can welcome. We welcome the fact that the specificities of local and regional authorities, as well as those of SMEs and SMEs, are taken into account. On this point, we wanted to reassure the business owners who feared the application of the European text. Of course, we are changing our paradigm: by moving from a pre-commissioning logic to a compliance regime, the reform places new responsibilities on businesses. Citizens are increasingly sensitive to the processing of personal data by economic actors, which justifies their accountability. However, I would like to point out that the CNIL has seen its skills strengthened and its services reorganised, in a logic of accompaniment and advice, at the service, in particular, of companies, and in particular SMEs-TPE. In addition, we have made progress on this text on the issue of school data, which has been of particular interest to me since the beginning of our work. We have repeatedly stressed that it would have been interesting to make use of the room for manoeuvre allowed by the European Regulation on the protection of sensitive data, by extending them to personal data processed in national education; This has been done, since schools will now be subject to an obligation of transparency regarding the processing of school data. However, as part of this final reading, we wanted to table, like many of our colleagues in the LaREM, UDI-Agir and LR groups, an amendment incorporating a provision adopted in the Senate. It concerns Article 17 bis of the draft law, which aims to prohibit the imposition of a pre-installed application on the consumer without alternative possibility, in the initial configuration of a terminal, but provides for derogations, in particular for "economic justifications", which we believe is contrary to the objective pursued. That is why we will propose that you delete this mention. The draft law on the protection of personal data is a major text, the importance of which may not be measured by all. I am sure that it will have lasting consequences, that it will make the European Union a forerunner in this area and that other countries, on all continents, will follow this example. Finally, I wanted to conclude on the "threat", between quotes, of the Senate to refer the text to the Constitutional Council: it should not be seen as such. On the contrary, it would be a good opportunity to definitively strengthen the value of this text, by dispelling any doubt of unconstitutionality that may persist with it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the Modem and related groups will vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u21	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u22	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, without going back to the entire debate that led the Senate and the National Assembly in previous readings, I believe that, for the most part, regardless of our political sensitivities, we can all agree on the philosophy of this bill, which aims to supplement our legislation on the protection of personal data. This text seeks a balance between the accountability of data-processing actors and the rights of citizens to data, which, it must be recalled – this is the essential point – belong to them. We would have hoped that the two Assemblies could agree on a text of this importance in its entirety, both in terms of its application to individual fundamental rights and its economic consequences. Nevertheless, we can estimate that today we have reached this point of balance. With this bill coming to an end today, we can feel that a page is turning. But in reality, it is a new chapter that is opening up, because the question of data and their use will arise on a regular, if not growing, basis in many parliamentary debates. We will, of course, soon have to question the political, economic and ethical dimensions of the digitisation of our society. Digital technology, we must recall, is already one of the greatest revolutions that humanity has experienced, of which we are still far from knowing the extent. Digital influences and irrigates all sectors of activity, both private and public, and induces a change in society as a whole, both in its overall organization and in the relationships between individuals. While it is sometimes difficult to measure the extent of the transformation of our daily lives through the use of information technology, it must be noted that, as soon as it is understood by the public, technology is inserted very quickly into the social body and ceases to become a subject of questioning. Clearly, it is often up to us to make up for the delay in the law in relation to the reality of the ground, to what our fellow citizens are experiencing today. That is why, in the face of challenges whose growth can be described as exponential, it is up to us to ensure that the law is adapted, in an effective and reactive manner, for the benefit of all. This is one of the issues at stake in the debate. The difficulty often lies in finding a balance in the texts between the interests of our citizens, our businesses and our communities. On the form, Madam Keeper of the Seals, we still regret the delay in examining the text. Of course, we must respect the 25 May deadline; However, given the highly strategic nature of the text and the substantive room for manoeuvre available to the Member States, we would have liked to have had more time in order to get to the bottom of the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u24	In fact, I believe that some have regretted, including in the Senate, that they have been unable to bring the reflections to their conclusion on important issues, which involve the future and which affect the protection of rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u26	However, the law is a living matter and we are pleased to see that the legacy of 1978 has not been forgotten in our work. The IUD, Action and Independent Group wanted to thank you for this. It is indeed symbolic and important to show that France has been at the forefront on these subjects. The choice is therefore happy to have adapted the computer law and freedoms rather than creating a new one. This bill, in substance, enhances transparency in the use of data, by changing the general conditions for the use of online services and by changing the rights of citizens, who will benefit from greater visibility on their data, greater control, above all, of their use. In addition, a panel of sanctions, at least dissuasive, will be applicable to all actors, including GAFAM, which is also a major point. For all these reasons, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will support this text. I will add a final word on the training and support of TPEs and SMEs in these changes; We must not forget that the reform will be applicable to overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u27	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LR group]] It is therefore up to us to extend all the accompanying measures to the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u29	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u30	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes back to our House after the Joint Joint Committee, meeting for the occasion, failed to reach an agreement. The Senate had proposed interesting changes, which concerned, inter alia, the CNIL prior authorisation regime for criminal files implemented by private legal persons or the stricter supervision of algorithms, with the aim of limiting their use in cases where the administration relies entirely on them, to individual decisions which do not require any discretion, and the immediate strengthening and enforcement of the penalty of nullity of decisions in the event of omission of mandatory information. This text both introduces into our national legislation a European regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, and transposes a directive on the processing of personal data into a criminal and investigative framework. As I said at the first reading of the text, the protection of personal data and their accompanying personal freedoms must be a permanent objective of our legislation, both at European and national level. The text terminates the prior declaration to an independent administrative authority and the latter's authorisation for the automated and computerised processing of personal data, and replaces it with a security ensured by the organisation that recovers and exploits the data, in accordance with standards and standards and under the control of the same administrative authority. This reversal of logic, it seems to me, requires greater vigilance on a number of points. This is the case in criminal matters, as our honourable senators have pointed out, but also, as I said at first reading, personal data in the national education sector. At the same time, some improvements could have been adopted. Two points can illustrate my point. First of all, I would like to stress the algorithms, because there are still legitimate concerns about them. There is nothing less at stake than the right to information and the principles of neutrality, loyalty, fairness, non-discrimination, the fight against unfair competition, respect for consent and privacy. Our group defends an open and transparent conception of the use of algorithms. The data used, the logical and reproducible processes and their object must be accessible to those for whom they are used and to whom they are opposed. Madam Minister, we would have liked this advance information to be systematic for the administration concerned. It would be fair to inform them that the decision taken on them is based on automated processing, and above all that they are able to know the rules and main characteristics of this treatment. This should be the case, in particular, for university enrolment, as has been pointed out on many occasions. But that will not be the case! As such, if decisions on the acceptance or refusal of applicants are taken by the institutions on the basis of automated processing, they will not be required to include an explicit mention in the text of the decision, nor to communicate to the person concerned, at his request, the rules defining the processing, as well as the main features of its implementation. The improvement proposed by the Senate was refused by the Government and the La République en marche group, which thus reiterate a significant exception to the principle laid down by the law of 7 October 2016 for a digital Republic. At the same time, parliamentary discussions have highlighted that data protection could be better guaranteed when using mobile phone operating systems and digital giants' service platforms, which collect and exploit our personal data at every moment and even offline. Thus, Article 17a of the text, which is intended to ensure that users have a choice among pre-installed applications, provides that they may be refused an economic justification. In these circumstances, it is unlikely that the GAFA will give up access to our personal data! Unfortunately, these important points for the protection of citizens' rights will therefore remain outstanding. Note group decided to abstain. We hoped that this text, which adapts the progress made by the new European legislation, would make maximum use of the room for manoeuvre it offered. That is not the case, and we regret it, Madam Minister, for the quality of the legislation and for our citizens, administrative users and users of digital services. It was recalled earlier that our country was avant-garde in 1978, but with this text it lost its place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u31	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u32	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u33	This amendment aims to increase the transparency of Parcoursup. This platform, which is generating much debate at the moment, uses a national algorithm and local algorithms, but its procedures lack transparency and users suffer from it. It has been learned that algorithms classify students according to the rank of the high school from which they came. Under these conditions, a high school student with an average of sixteen in a high school in Saint-Denis and competing for a secondary school with a high school student of Henri-IV having twelve averages, would see his average lowered to ten by the algorithm when that of the student of Henri-IV would be raised to fifteen. In addition to tending to strengthen territorial segregation and social segregation, these local algorithms, because of their opacity, therefore make the methods used to select students in the framework of the Courseup even more questionable. My amendment is therefore simple: it aims to remove the provision which allows this national selection procedure to derogate from the rules laid down in the Code of relations between the public and the administration with regard to the transparency of algorithms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u34	What is the opinion of the committee, the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u35	We have already had this debate in a new reading, and the Government then reiterated its commitment to improve the transparency of the Parcoursup algorithm. Although I myself had acknowledged that the drafting of the education code was not satisfactory, we had nevertheless agreed, in a public session, to consider it inappropriate to change the rules of the game now, as the reform is being implemented, we are asking for efforts from all actors and we are still not aware of the consolidated practices within the institutions. How will algorithms be used? Will they be more or less set? The setting will be taken into account in the decisions, but will the decisions come from secret deliberations or will they result from the application of the source code, which will have to be opened? The decisions taken and the stabilization of practices will give rise to a report, which will be submitted at the end of the year and whose recommendations in terms of transparency can be repeated in the framework of a draft or a bill, on which we will work with the rapporteur of the law on the guidance and success of students. I am personally committed to following this dossier and to ensuring, on behalf of the committee, that transparency is ensured. I will allow the Government to speak on this point, but I am already expressing an opinion against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u36	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u37	It is also unfavourable. I would like to come back, if you allow me to do so, and although we have already had an opportunity to discuss this subject here, about the way in which Parcoursup has been implemented. You propose, Mr Little, in the name of the lack of transparency of the selection procedure and the supposed effect of local algorithms on territorial segregation, to delete the last paragraph of I. from article L. 612-3 of the Education Code, resulting from the law of 8 March 2018 on the orientation and success of students. In the same way as the rapporteur, the Government wishes, on the contrary, that this provision be maintained, because it is, in our view, an essential part of human intervention in the pathup system, on which I would like to reassure you once again, Mr. It was built to put an end to the opacity resulting from the post-bac admission process – PDB – used so far. The Government has chosen to reshape the modalities of entry into higher education around two basic requirements: to put people back into the assignment process by excluding any decision based solely on an algorithm or a drawing of lots, and to make this procedure transparent and respectful of the rights of students. Article L. 612-3 allows, in this respect, a sufficient level of requirement, which is unprecedented in relation to the PDB procedure. The law lays down a strong principle: the criterion for selecting files is the adequacy of the candidate's profile with the characteristics of the training he claims. These features are displayed on the site of Parcoursup for the 13,000 referenced trainings, which was not the case, a few months ago, when we were working with APB. They were validated at national level by means of a charter drawn up last December in consultation with all higher education institutions and training. With regard to the algorithms to which you refer, the Government has also worked to ensure a new level of transparency. Article L. 612-3 provides for both the publication of the national algorithms of Parcoursup and the publication of decision support tools, i.e. local algorithms made available to institutions. The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation is committed to the publication of local algorithms in September in accordance with the common law deadline. In addition, the law recognizes a new right for students to be able to obtain, individually, all information relating to the processing of their files. Finally, with a view to ensuring optimal control of the system while ensuring full information to Parliament, the Act established an ethics and scientific committee, whose role was strengthened during its review. The Committee is now expected to report to Parliament on the implementation and transparency of the new national pre-registration procedure. It seems to me that your amendment, if adopted, would deprive teachers of the various types of training referred to of the benefit of protecting their deliberations. In concrete terms, all the exchanges of the 13,000 vow review committees established by the implementing decree would be published on the sole ground that these formations would be able to use a local algorithm, which, as I said earlier, will be published in September. Your proposal, honourable Member, would therefore have the effect of either causing training institutions to use the decision support tool mechanically without giving it pedagogical guidance or deliberating on the substance of the applications, or abandoning it and processing all the files manually. In both cases, it seems to me to lead to an impasse, although it is not justified in terms of the guarantees provided by the Government with regard to the transparency of the procedure. Finally, I would like to recall the commitment made in this House in a new reading by my colleague Mounir Mahjoubi, whom I have reminded the Senate. The Government is fully prepared, as the rapporteur suggested earlier, to develop the mechanism on the basis of the insights provided by the ethical and scientific committee, whose members may, moreover, be heard by the Standing Committees under the conditions laid down in your Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen. The same is true – I have dealt with this issue personally in the Senate, at the request of senators – of the General Inspectorate of the Administration of National Education and Research, which is responsible for a comprehensive follow-up mission to the reform whose members can also be heard in committee. I therefore propose that you reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u38	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u39	The statements made by Mrs La Garde des Seales and Mrs La rapporteur are in keeping with the debate on the text. We are not in favour of the amendment, because the implementation of Parcoursup has been the subject of a great desire for transparency. Between the release of the algorithms in September and the submission by December 1 of the report of the ethics and scientific committee, we will have the opportunity to review the mechanism in order to determine how to improve and modify it if we detect faults. As things stand, we cannot support such an amendment calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u40	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u41	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Custody for her comprehensive and detailed reply, as well as the rapporteur for her commitment to ensuring that the report provided for in the text is well advanced. However, I would like to draw the Assembly's attention to the fact that the consequences for those concerned of the choices made in the framework of the Parcoursup are not yet known. Some misunderstandings may arise when they occur, i.e. when decisions are addressed to students. They will be all the more important as the transparency of choices will not be on the table. In fact, if it turns out that they comply with criteria of social and territorial segregation, as seems to be the case, this will be a problem. So what we will do in the fall will come a little late. Finally, in order to be completely complete, I would like to recall that the CNIL, in a deliberation on 22 March 2018 – thus after the vote on the law of 8 March 2018, from which Parcoursup derives – recalled that a derogation from the rules of transparency established by the code of relations between the public and the administration is unnecessary with regard to the national pre-registration procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u42	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 1, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u43	It is intended to amend article 17 bis, paragraph 2, by replacing the words "unreasonably, without justification of a technical, economic or safety nature" with the words "without legitimate reasons of a technical or safety nature". It is a question of simply removing any economic justification. Such a correction seems to us to be relevant because the current wording is paradoxical: it is strangely contradictory with the objective pursued by Article 17 bis, to the point of rendering it inoperative. If we understand correctly, this is to prevent contracts between consumers and businesses for the provision of computer terminals and their initial configuration from imposing on the consumer a pre-installed application prohibiting any alternative choice, in particular that of another more protective application of personal data. However, the current wording of Article 17a, which provides for economic justification, is contradictory to the objective pursued. It seems to us important to delete the reference to it, so that no application can be imposed on consumers and that there is indeed an offer of alternative applications. In addition, the current wording of Article 17 bis seems to us to be based on a hierarchy of contractual freedom and the right to the protection of personal data. We wish to correct this point and make the protection of personal data and the choice of alternative applications fully operational and effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u44	Thank you, dear colleague. [[Smile]] My little finger tells me that Amendment No 10 is being defended. I call Mr Eric Bothorel to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u45	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Chair of the Committee on Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Mrs Rapporteur, as our colleague has just said. The Grip, these identical amendments aim to bring a patch, a patch, to the text. We know them well: we must be in version 3.12 – that is, the richness of the debates that took place in this House and in the Senate! We propose, as part of the final reading of the text, to adopt proposals made in the Senate on this point. I do not know whether the wording of the amendment is imperfect, contradictory or only imprecise. In any event, economic justification may provide a refuge for certain actors, through which they may retain certain practices against which this article aims to combat. If it goes without writing it, it goes better by writing it. The correction made by the identical amendments would give the spirit of the text its full scope. It aims to guarantee consumers freedom of choice in terms of application. Many young people were just following our debates in the fora. Of course, the regulation will protect them, but the best protection they will enjoy will be to be able to wonder why such an application is free of charge and what application allows them to distribute their photographs free of charge. They must be given the means to select the right applications and enable them to adopt digital hygiene through which they will be good citizens on the Web.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u46	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u47	With regard to its intentions, article 17 bis was a remarkable step forward. It affirms, for the first time in our legislation, in accordance with the letter and spirit of European law, that applications pre-installed on mobile phones must not collect the personal data of users without their free and explicit consent, and deduces from it that every effort must be made to obtain such consent and to offer a real choice to users. But strangely, almost indelibly, its wording was so made that it goes in the opposite direction of the objective pursued. Indeed, the creation of an economic justification simply cancels the original good intentions. Let us not open a Pandora's box – even though we do not intend to – that would allow Google or Apple – to name but the main beneficiaries – to argue for a simple economic justification to ban any alternative offer proposal and take advantage of it to access the personal data of tens of millions of our fellow citizens without restriction! Ladies and gentlemen, by voting on these identical amendments, we will repair an anomaly or inaccuracy of the text and strongly and clearly affirm the legislator's determination to effectively protect the personal data of French users of mobile terminals. National representation and the Government would honour themselves to complete and without fear the fight for the freedom of choice and the protection of our personal data by amending article 17 bis. Finally, I would like to make one final point: by voting on these identical amendments, we would be in line with the objective desired by the President of the Republic, who called the digital revolution "a unique opportunity that we must seize to build the modalities that will enable us to defend the rules that will protect individual freedoms and respect the secrecy to which everyone is entitled".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u48	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u49	The previous statements from various benches of this assembly are a sign of common concern. We hope, Madam Commissioner, that you will be sensitive to this unanimity. The reference to economic justification should be deleted from the second paragraph of Article 17a. It seems to us very unlikely that the GAFAs will be keen to give up access to our personal data and their economic interest. We want to correct what may be an oversight. To accept these identical amendments would be an important step, as it has failed to do with the other articles of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u50	[[Smile]] On these brilliantly defended amendments, what is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u51	It is a good way to complete the examination of the text to reach agreement on all the benches of this House and with the Senate and, I hope, with the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u52	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u53	I am in favour of the proposed correction, which seems welcome to me. I thank Mr Bothorel for his work on this subject for many months. I would also like to point out – as in the new reading – that the subject is much broader than the framework of the regulation and the legislation that we are dealing with today. Fair competition in digital matters concerns many areas, such as the trade code, taxation, data policy and public order – all of which we will have to work on in the coming months under the impetus of our colleague Bothorel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u54	The floor is open to the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, to give the opinion of the Government – the Assembly is suspended from your lips, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u55	[[Smile]] That's not unpleasant, Mr. President! Madam President of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, what a parliamentary work for these identical amendments! Rule 17 bis is the completed example of all that can be brought about by a built-up and open debate, in this House, in the Senate, in committee and out of committee, day and night! He has been the subject of intense reflection and exchanges, particularly thanks to your leadership, Mr Bothorel and the rapporteur. What's he planning? It aims to protect the end-user of a computer terminal – a phone, a tablet, but also a computer, laptop or fixed – by allowing him to freely consent – because the sole issue of the text is consent within the meaning of the GDPR – to the processing of his personal data by applications and services installed before and by default on this equipment. The second paragraph of Article 17a provides for three possible derogations from such consent, which may be of a technical, economic or security nature. The identical amendments that have just been tabled aim to remove the economic derogation. According to their summary statements, it would paradoxically obstruct the objective pursued by the article. I would like to make two points, one on the substance of the amendments and the other on a more general level. On the merits, I am certain that the controller, regardless of the writing of the article, must and will have to determine the legal basis for the processing of personal data. In the case of a contract, acceptance of the contract may be incorporated into the general conditions of use. If consent within the meaning of the GDPR is used as a basis for such treatment, then an economic reason must not be used to derogate from it, with or without its mention in the text. However, in the course of the lengthy debates on this subject, the Government has shown both openness and prudence: no one today is in a position to determine with certainty the economic consequences of the deletion of this mention. We wanted to go further on the analysis, in particular on compatibility with the GDPR, and this approach seems to call for a very open look at these amendments. In particular, recital 42 of the GDPR states that "the consent should not be regarded as having been given freely if the person concerned does not have genuine freedom of choice or is not in a position to refuse or withdraw his consent without prejudice". Such consent must be free, specific, informed and unambiguous. Articles 6 and 7 of the Regulation do not allow economic reasons to be included in the assessment of consent; This is therefore in line with the same amendments. Beyond this, and more generally, this amendment has been particularly interesting and has been the subject of numerous articles in the press; It is essential that today's vote marks the beginning of a wide-ranging reflection. We are here at the limits of data protection law, contract law, competition law, consumer law... and their articulation is sometimes very complex. What we are talking about here – you mentioned in this regard the President of the Republic, and I thank you for that – is indeed digital regulation, in all fields, economic, social, fiscal... It is a question of social practices and relations between different economic actors as well as labour law, and in particular the rights of collaborators of platforms, industrial data, data sharing, withdrawal of content, dependence and addiction... The subject of digital regulation is going to take us all, for a long time. This is a sensitive issue, and the Government believes that thorough reflection will be necessary, as the rapporteur and Mr. Bothorel have already pointed out. The Government will lead this discussion, and hopes that society as a whole will be involved, as these digital regulations will influence all aspects of our lives. For all these reasons, and consistent with the position adopted by the Government in previous readings, we rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly – with a final remark: these amendments are not the final fight against platforms; it is not the success of the lobbying of a French actor and his cabinet; This is a first step in collective reflection. The Government will play its role, as will the Assembly, as well as the Senate, which has shown that it too has understood the importance of this subject. That is how we will move forward. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Without naivety or caricature, the Government, I repeat, relies on your wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u56	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u57	[[Smile]] The Group of the European People's Party will be voting wisely for these amendments. I would like to thank and congratulate Eric Bothorel for his involvement, patience and perseverance: it was a long work, but he has been able to gradually convince, at all levels, of the importance of this proposal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to remind the young public here that a good dissertation of French is concluded by opening the subject: well, as the Secretary of State has reminded us, there are now broad perspectives for reflection and work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u58	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u59	I put to the vote the bill as a whole in the text voted by the National Assembly on a new reading, as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u60	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u61	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u62	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament (No 874, 884).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u63	Mr Alain Tourret, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u64	Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the Chair of the Law Committee, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly proud to report to you this bill on representatives in the European Parliament. I am an elected Norman, this land of Europe which, on 6 June 1944, saw the forces of freedom come to confront the Nazi armies and which subsequently succeeded in the wonderful reunion of Franco-German humanism. It is certainly in Normandy that there are the most cities twinned with municipalities in Germany. There is no great purpose without a European purpose: we all know that. The Gaullists with General de Gaulle, the Socialists with François Mitterrand, the centrists of course, have all strongly defended this European will. The President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron continues this line. Europe is a surplus of humanism; It must be freed through the elections. The draft law submitted by the Government has been considered successively by the National Assembly and the Senate; the work of the Joint Joint Committee was not easy, since Article 7, in particular, had been deleted by the Senate. But the particular alchemy of the CMP, as well as the one that unites us, Alain Richard and I, has made it possible to reach a complete agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u65	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u66	It is all the more admirable that I am not convinced that it is the fate of many laws that govern elections. Minister, I would also like to thank you for your commitment. This text provides for the election of representatives to the European Parliament by full proportional representation in a single constituency. It sets the threshold for obtaining elected officials at 5 per cent of the votes cast, and the threshold for reimbursement of expenses at 3 per cent. Some other provisions must also be noted here. In the event of an equal vote, it will now be the youngest list that will win, not the oldest list: it is a message of confidence to European youth. What better signal can we send? The text also sets out the arrangements for the organization of official election campaigns on radio and television. It was necessary to draw the consequences of the Constitutional Judge's decision of 31 May 2017. Three envelopes are planned. First of all, all the lists filed, whatever they may be, will have a minimum broadcasting time – thanks to the agreement of the Government, we have gone from two to three minutes. It doesn't seem much, but it's still a half increase! Second, a broadcasting period is allocated to parties with elected representatives in Parliament. The Senate has asked that the number of European parliamentarians also be taken into account, which seems a good thing. Finally, a correction is provided for the lists which are insufficiently represented in Parliament but which play a real role in the life of the nation. Of course, these distribution arrangements are under the control of the Conseil Supérieur de l'audiovisuel – CSA. It seems to me important to add that we have chosen to follow the same path for the general elections as for the European elections. The allocation of speaking time will therefore apply both to the latter and to national elections. You convinced me, Madam Minister, of the need to do so. We have adopted the mechanism, the Senate too. Of the seven articles in the bill, six did not pose any difficulties – the provisions were adopted by the National Assembly and the Senate at first reading. Article 7 remained, which, in accordance with the strong will of the President of the Republic, provided, in addition to the national lists, for the possibility of providing a number of seats on transnational lists in a single European constituency. Thus, some of the British seats freed following the Brexit would be allocated to the least well represented countries in terms of the number of seats per capita – France would thus recover four or five seats – while the remaining seats – some 30 – would be filled in a pan-European constituency, based on lists in which the respective number of French or Luxembourgers would not matter. The Senate had initially deleted this article. The magic of the Joint Joint Committee has worked, however, since a text was adopted very broadly on my proposal which reserves the possibility of establishing transnational lists "if necessary" – provided, of course, that an agreement is reached at European level on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and NG groups]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is never very easy to argue in favour of a text on elections. As a lawyer, I've had easier and more engaging cases. But next year, this bill makes it possible to envisage a genuine European debate. I do not oppose Europeans and anti-Europeans; There are only Europeans whose commitments are different. These commitments will all have to defend them before the French people in the forthcoming European elections. From then on, 2019 will be a great time, that of Europe. This bill allows for this. I therefore call on you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u67	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u68	Mr President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after the Joint Committee's conclusions have been presented to us by the rapporteur, I would also like, on behalf of the Government, to welcome the agreement reached by Members and senators on the draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament. I will not go back to the details of the balanced compromise presented to us by Mr Alain Tourret. However, I would like to stress this at the outset of my remarks: you have done a remarkable job on this text, and I would particularly like to welcome it. The successful completion of the legislative process that began more than six months ago owes you a lot. I would also like to thank the Committee on European Affairs and its draftsman, Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade, for his investment in this text, as well as the leaders and speakers of the various political groups in your House for their participation and contribution to the debate. I referred to a six-month legislative process since, even before the adoption of the text in the Council of Ministers on 3 January, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister had wished, as part of a genuine process of legislative co-construction, to consult all the political groups on the proposed reform. As I had the opportunity to say during the public debate before your Assembly on 13 and 14 February, the current situation is far from satisfactory: the abstention rate has increased over the course of European elections, reaching 70% in 2014 in some cities. The system based on eight interregional electoral districts is thus a clear failure. It has not been able to bring citizens closer to their representatives or to raise more interest in European electoral issues and debates. For both the Government and most of the political groups consulted, the re-establishment of a national constituency was necessary. Both the National Assembly and the Senate have agreed: the senators who have adopted Article 1 e in the same terms as the deputies, Parliament has chosen, by a large majority, a system which brings us closer to that in force in most of our European partners – and which France has also known between 1977 and 2003. The Government is convinced that this option was the only one able to guarantee an increased interest of voters in the European election by raising the debate on major European issues at the national level. In addition to this reform and the legislative consequences which should be drawn from it in the law of 7 July 1977, we were collectively obliged to change the provisions on the allocation of broadcasting time in the context of the official campaign of the European elections. In the absence of any development, the provisions currently in force would have been declared contrary to the Constitution, as were those governing the official campaign of the legislative elections, which were censored by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 31 May 2017. The Government had originally proposed a system based on a three-way distribution: a flat-rate speaking time – which was extended from two to three minutes by your assembly, on the proposal of your rapporteur – offered to any regularly registered list; a period of two hours divided according to the number of deputies and senators; and a one-hour corrective fraction distributed by the CSA so that the broadcasting time allocated to the lists pursuant to the first two fractions is not out of proportion to the participation in the democratic life of the nation of the political parties and groups that support them. While the text voted by your assembly provided that the result of the last European elections would be taken into account in the third fraction, senators insisted that the time allocated to the lists under the second fraction should take into account, in addition to the number of Members and Senators expressing support for these lists, the number of Members of the European Parliament. The Joint Joint Commission has chosen this option with an amendment of clarification, which is appropriate for the Government. With regard to the same article, the Government welcomes the fact that the Joint Commission has found a compromise on the way in which the correcting fraction operates: on the margin of manoeuvre given by the Senate to the CSA to choose a period to be allocated between one hour and one hour thirty – a mechanism which the Government feared would be subject to censorship for the negative incompetence of the legislator – it has been preferred a mechanism bringing the third fraction to one hour thirty, which seems more satisfactory in legal and operational terms. The CMP also endorsed the provisions of Article 2 bis – the senators had not changed it, in accordance with the tradition that they do not interfere in the election of deputies – which derive the consequences of the decision of May 31, 2017, made following a priority issue of constitutionality on the allocation of broadcasting time during the campaign for the parliamentary elections. The Government welcomes the fact that the bill has been able to remedy the consequences of this censorship in order to avoid any legal vacuum as of 30 June this year. Finally, the last point on which the assessment of the two assemblies diverged, as the rapporteur has just pointed out at length and brilliantly, concerned Article 7 and the reference to the election of Members of the European Parliament on transnational lists in a single European constituency, a reference which had been deleted by senators, which I deplored during the public debate. While taking note of the European Parliament's negative vote last February, the Government remains very committed to European negotiations and will continue to defend this idea, as it is, in its view, one of the main axes for strengthening European democracy. This proposal, supported by many of our partners, continues to be the subject of negotiations with a view to future European elections. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Government therefore welcomes the fact that, after discussion, the Joint Joint Committee has chosen to re-establish these provisions in Article 7, and thanks the rapporteur for this. In conclusion, the Government is particularly pleased with the compromise reached by the members of the CMP on the provisions of the text under discussion and can therefore only call on the National Assembly to adopt the conclusions before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u70	Mrs Typhanie Degois spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the European model is neither abstract nor dated. Europe now needs a new plan. The peoples of Europe aspire to an ambitious project to meet the challenges of the 21st century, climate change, the digital revolution and the challenges of immigration. In order to build this ambitious project, the European elections in 2019 will be an opportunity to confront the ideas and proposals of all political groups. The draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament reflects the need for a national debate on European issues. When a constituency in the European elections starts in Aurillac and ends up in Chambéry, or starts in Mâcon and ends up in Mulhouse, returning to the national constituency can hardly cause fear. The attachment of our fellow citizens to France certainly has a geographical dimension, but also and above all, a historical dimension from which comes this foundation of common values which gives the French people the strength to meet the challenges ahead. Defending the general interest of our nation is therefore a work that can only be done at the national level. The national constituency, proposed in this bill, will allow it more, through a readable and coherent ballot aimed at giving French people a mandate to represent their compatriots. On a subject as sensitive as electoral law, it was essential to reach a compromise with the Senate on a joint committee. This was the case, thanks to the tenacity and investment of the rapporteur. During its consideration in the Committee on European Affairs, in the Committee on Laws and in sittings here and then in the Senate, the bill has been continuously improved and enriched. Several advances are welcome. First of all, the broadcasting times, as an electoral propaganda tool, have been adjusted. Each candidate list will have not less than two, but at least three minutes. The second fraction, i.e. a two-hour envelope, will be distributed according to the number of supports declared by national parliamentarians, but also by MEPs. Finally, the corrective portion made available to the Higher Audiovisual Council will be increased from one hour to one and a half hours, in order to ensure that representation is as fair as possible, taking into account the contribution of each candidate list to the national debate and to the democratic life of the nation. A mechanism for issuing time for parliamentary elections has also been introduced. Following a priority issue of constitutionality, on 31 May 2017, the Constitutional Council declared that Article L. 167-1 II and III of the Electoral Code were contrary to the Constitution, based on the fact that these provisions could lead to the granting of broadcasting time on the public service clearly out of proportion with the participation of political parties and groups in the democratic life of the nation. It was therefore imperative to introduce new legislation in this bill on this aspect. In addition, this text has made it possible to increase the publicity of campaign accounts, but also to introduce the rule that, in the event of an equal vote, the seat should be allocated to the list with the lowest average age.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u72	This is a revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u73	Finally, the draft law mentions the possibility of establishing transnational lists within a European constituency. In order to ensure the legal certainty of this provision, reference is made to it in the article on the entry into force of the text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The European Union is certainly to reinvent, from its common commercial policy to its social system – which is currently lacking – to a defence Europe. Our political group is convinced that the first step towards reshaping Europe must be a national consultation. The draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament pursues the same aim. That is why we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u75	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we, the Republicans, once again wish to affirm our strong opposition to the return to an old electoral system – the one in force before the 2004 European elections – which is being operated by the bill that you are proposing to us. It's a step backwards, a step backwards. Allow the MEP that I have been for seven years and nine months to stress the need for Members of the European Parliament to have a strong territorial and local anchor, as is the case in other major European democracies, in order to give them credibility, legitimacy, competence and the ability to develop a real influence in parliamentary work, particularly in the various committees. Going back, sweeping the territorialisation of the election – in this case its regionalisation –, re-establishing the single national constituency means taking the risk that next spring, in our country, Members of the European Parliament will be elected out of the ground. In the absence of territorial anchoring, they will not be obliged to return regularly to their territory, to their terroir, not only to account for the way in which they exercise their mandate as Members of the European Parliament, but also to hear, listen to and take into account the concerns, concerns and legitimate aspirations of those who live there. We believe that, to be effective, an elected official must be anchored in a reality, that of his territory, that of his territory, that of his constituency – this applies to legislative representation both at national and at European level. Once again, the disconnection and widening gap between European elected officials and voters, in our view, is likely to be aggravated by this reversal of national lists separated by proportional representation. Once again, in our view, there is a great risk that MEPs will be elected out of the ground, with this development now proven towards a purely national campaign and European elections that will, in a way, turn into a referendum for or against the power in place, for or against Europe, for or against what form of Europe is known. Beyond the fundamental disagreement over the return to this old electoral system, which seems to us to be extremely harmful, if not harmful, to the defence of the interests of France, our territories and our regional constituencies, we wish to reaffirm our total opposition to the maintenance of the principle of transnational lists, provided for in section 7 of this bill. It seems to us extremely problematic to maintain, in the body of the text itself, a provision devoid of any normative character evoking the possible application – "if any" – of a system of transnational lists. You yourself have recognized, Madam Minister, the non-normative nature of the provision in section 7. Thus, at your hearing by the competent committees of our Assembly, you indicated that the reference to the principle of transnational lists had a very symbolic significance. This was also recognised by the rapporteur and by Mr Philippe Bas, Chairman of the Senate Law Committee, at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee. Finally, the General Assembly of the Council of State itself deplored the retention of a non-normative provision in the body of the future law itself. In our view, this raises a serious problem. The Constitutional Council is a priori very vigilant on this point. In fact, it seems to us quite paradoxical, if not contradictory, that, at the very moment when the executive proposes to us a constitutional revision which aims to regulate, or even restrict, the right of parliamentary amendment, on the pretext that amendments which are not related to the body of the text or which have a non-normative character should be eliminated, the Government presents a bill which contains, in a very surprising and even shocking way from the point of view of our group, the Republicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u77	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u78	... a reference, devoid of a normative character, to the above-mentioned principle. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, we reaffirm that we will vote against this bill, which aims to restore a single national constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u79	It's the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u80	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are about to adopt will certainly help to strengthen the place of European debate in our political life. The re-establishment of a single constituency, which had been abolished in 2003, is in line with the President of the Republic's desire to draw the contours of a strong and ambitious Europe, a Europe that protects while being forward-looking. Today it is particularly necessary to believe in and support this united Europe, which we call for, in a world in which alliances and power relations are changing. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has been fully involved in this movement for many years. That is why we are very pleased that the National Assembly and the Senate quickly reached a compromise position, thanks to the rapporteur, at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee – in which I participated – on 18 April. We believe that this text, which is the result of the work of the committee, is balanced and will make it possible to restore coherence to the debates held during the European elections. As such, we are pleased – contrary to what I have just heard – that the territory of the Republic is considered a single constituency. As the minister recalled, this principle had been validated at first reading, both by the Senate and by the National Assembly. During the discussions, we drew attention to the need to take account of ultramarine territories. We believe that several provisions of this text address this concern. On the other hand, the fair representation of our entire territory is a responsibility that will now be incumbent on the political parties in the composition of the future lists in question. During the discussions at first reading, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement had expressed a number of reservations about the articles relating to the calculation of broadcast times in the context of audiovisual campaigns for the European and legislative elections. Considering that the proposed method of calculation was disproportionate to electoral reality, we made two proposals. Firstly, with regard to the audiovisual campaign for the European elections, we wanted French representatives in the European Parliament to be taken into account when allocating the broadcast time to the candidate lists. Secondly, with regard to audiovisual campaigns both for the European elections and for the parliamentary elections, we have proposed a rebalancing between the corrective fraction available to the Higher Audiovisual Council and that which will be allocated pro rata to the parliamentary groups. We welcome the fact that these proposals have been broadly accepted in the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee. On the one hand, the support expressed by MEPs will now be taken into account for the allocation of speaking time in the audiovisual campaign for the European elections. On the other hand, the CSA will now have an hour and a half – as opposed to an hour before – to be distributed among the lists in order to make a correction, which will allow it to make the distribution of broadcast time more equitable among those involved in the public debate, in accordance with the wish expressed by the Council of State in its opinion. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers that transnational lists are necessary to strengthen the European dynamic and the democratic legitimacy of the European Parliament. Although this project is now being put on a break at European level – it has been recalled – we believe that it is necessary to keep its mention in this bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u82	We don't! It's unconstitutional! It'll be censored!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u83	...which was accepted by a majority by the Joint Joint Committee at the request of the rapporteur. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Therefore, it is with enthusiasm that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u85	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "Where the peril grows, it also grows what saves". This formula, which we borrow from the German poet Hölderlin, perfectly describes the spirit that reigned in Brussels at the end of 2017. There is no doubt that, for the European Union, it ended under better conditions than it had begun. Pushed by a new wind, a window of opportunity opened up in favour of European integration. It is now a matter of strengthening the continental level, which is the only way to safeguard the interests of Europeans in this multipolar world where the great powers have nothing but isolated countries. In order to be able to work fully on this strategic rebound and to put an end to the existential crisis which has been shaking it for decades, the European Union must ensure a reconnection between the citizens, whom it intends to represent, and the Community project which it intends to pursue. In the eyes of Europeans and French people, this project is all too often seen as the lubi and playground of some technocrats disconnected from the real daily considerations. The rapprochement between the citizen and Europe is therefore largely based on strengthening the legitimacy of the European Parliament, the heart of democratic expression in the Union. To hope to reinvigorate European integration, it is necessary to ensure the fair representation of citizens, so that they can regain their political sensitivities, according to their importance, at Community level. At the same time, the second challenge is to strengthen the link and proximity of Europeans to their Members. The UDI, Action and Independent Group would therefore like to welcome the work of the Joint Joint Committee, which, as our colleagues have said, has enabled us to reach a consensus on this bill. In short, it makes it possible to reform the voting system and to lay the foundations for a possible revitalisation of the European construction, which we call for. National lists are the first step towards this goal. They will enable our citizens to take a more active part in European life by expressing through the ballot box the orientations they wish to give Europe. This bill also allows France to join the majority model of the Union, adopted by twenty-two of the twenty-seven Member States: it replaces the regional constituencies which had prevailed since 2004 with a single national constituency. The text also put an end to a system that undermined the importance of small parties to the advantage of the political heavyweights, more capable of mobilizing substantial funding and considerable human resources. Moreover, in view of the successive participation rates, it must be noted that the current system has not made it possible to establish any link of proximity between the Member and the citizens. With "Euroexchanges" that had no cultural, economic or historical coherence, the regional election demonstrated its inability to stem the French's lack of interest in the European project. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, I have a reservation on the representation of ultramarine populations in the European Parliament, which seems to be conditioned by the parties' willingness to place ultramarine candidates in an eligible position on their lists. In this regard, I welcome the presence of my elected friends from the Pacific, who are among those who can be most affected by this decision. I would like to point out that the ultramarine territories must be able to defend their own issues in Strasbourg or Brussels in the European institutions. National lists will also make it possible, despite this ultramarine problem, to ensure greater readability among citizens, who will be offered clear debates on the European project of candidates. Democratic representation and pluralism will be strengthened. We also welcome the fact that the text, in its final version, has left open the possibility of using transnational lists if the European institutions decide in the future to do so. Finally, we also support the measures relating to the allocation of airtime within the framework of the official audiovisual campaign and welcome this progress. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] For all these reasons, the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote on this draft law as proposed by the Joint Joint Committee. While reconciling proximity and political pluralism, it will put an end to the long slide in which we have been engaged for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u88	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u89	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, we have discussed this text extensively, which comes back to the National Assembly at last reading, after a joint committee whose merit we have said is due to you, because it has become final. For decades, you have been able to convince, I believe, honourable senators of the need to maintain in the text the openness to transnational lists, provided for in section 7, a non-normative measure that senators, as might be expected, did not see the need to include in the text, since it would not have any practical application. This measure, however, marks a path towards a new European model that is being built from the start of the common electoral campaign with our partners, not in national corridors, each of the states embarking on its own race. It is precisely because the European Parliament has rejected these transnational lists by a very large majority that we must mark our will to work the European field in an inclusive way. I shall return very briefly to the substance of the text. It must be noted that Members of the European Parliament have so far never played the map of proximity in France, while the eight constituencies set up invited them to do so. No explanatory work with the citizens, no joint work with the national deputies: it is a behaviour detrimental to democracy that, as we all see, favours the voting of lists. Political parties have mostly favoured the return to the single constituency, probably because it is more favourable – or, according to the calculators, less worse – and will allow them to appoint the candidates of the network and the recedes of the previous elections, without having to manage eight more binding lists. That said, the return to the single constituency is also a logical step towards bringing European issues closer to the heart of the electoral campaign and represents a new step towards transnational lists, which, we hope, will make the European demos emerge tomorrow. This choice of a single constituency brings us closer to the majority model in Europe. Germany has a mixed vote based on which the New Left Group has defended mixed amendments proposing the creation of a specific electoral district for the overseas country that guarantees the presence of ultramarine Members in the European Parliament. The principles of indivisibility and uniqueness of the Republic are not overlooked. Nor was there any prohibition at the level of the Hexagon or the Overseas to introduce this guarantee of the representativeness of the territories into the national lists. We do not belong to the world of wall and border builders, but to the one who is looking for a new way for Europe, a new social and environmental progress, with new demands, especially for those who have less. But the peculiarities of the territories must find their expression in order to recognise themselves in the Europe we want to build. As Mr Bru said very well, it is now up to the parties to deal with this issue. Because of your refusal to provide any guarantee to this territorial representation, in particular that of the ultramarines, the New Left Group has decided, in the vast majority, to abstain on this text. For my part, the hope of the transnational list will make me support it, in my personal capacity. My last marginal reflections, however, relate to the elections. Getting closer to the majority model in Europe is an argument often developed on the benches of the majority, on this and other texts, and we fully support it. It is an intelligent and pragmatic way of building this new Europe. But what do we do the same for the upcoming constitutional review? I succumb – forgive me – to the temptation to recall that all the states of the European Union have parliaments that ensure an important representativeness, which allows the national deputies to carry out this work of proximity and explanation to the citizens. After the ongoing reform, France will be a separate state in Europe: we will be the last of the class in terms of representativeness. The ideal that we draw with the transnational lists requires maintaining the balance of power at the heart of our democracy, with a strong National Assembly – thus representative in number – with representatives of the people able to relay political action and involve citizens in the necessary European revolution. These questions, European today and national tomorrow, which must be passionate about the citizens, should have found their place in a large public debate previously organised by the Government, which would have shown its demand for political democracy in all directions, European and national.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u91	On the bill as a whole, I am seized by the IUD, Act and Independent Group of the House of Commons with a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law organises the procedure for the election of French representatives to the European Parliament. It comes at a time when, precisely, European democracy is in a very sad state. The European Union lacks democracy in its substance. It does not create any ground on which its ideals could deepen and renew. It promotes financial greed and nationalistic selfishness, and does not offer a common horizon of collective emancipation and mutual development for the benefit of the general interest and the protection of the ecosystem. This more than fragile state is reflected at the heart of its institutions, particularly in a Parliament without its own decision-making power, ensnared between the Commission and the national executive, and engulfed by the lobbies. The democratic crisis that is shaking our societies is in particular a crisis of representativeness – this representative one through which voting creates a sense of belonging to a community of destiny. However, this representativeness can only exist if, downstream of the vote, the different voices that lead the debate of ideas have the opportunity to express themselves. A few days ago, on the occasion of his long speech in Aix-la-Chapelle, where he received a Charlemagne prize full of ecclesiastical and monarchical references that had to please his jupitian spirit but are somewhat distant from our republican traditions, President Macron insisted on the refusal to undergo the movements of the world. But, at the same time – as it should be in "Macronie" – the Government is subject to a narrowing of the democratic debate that is not conducive to the strengthening of popular sovereignty. This is contrary to the Government's plans for constitutional revision at the national level and part of this text for organizing European electoral debates. Even if we are in favour of establishing a single constituency, and will therefore vote in favour of this text, we would like to reconsider its particular provisions. According to the complex macronian thought, less debate of ideas would make it possible not to suffer; less parliamentary opposition would guarantee a more effective democracy. The oxymores are legion, but they are, in fact, a permanent attack on democracy. Representative democracy and its parliamentary corollary are among the founding European ideals. They involve effective control of the executive by the possibility of contradiction and allow this contradiction by organizing a fair debate of ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u93	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u94	What clear words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u95	That is why, if we are, I repeat, in favour of this text because it allows an organisation which seems to us to be generally positive, we are opposed to the provision of its Article 2, which will reduce the speaking time of the opposition parliamentary groups. According to the arguments repeatedly repeated by the majority, it would be a matter of bringing the law into line with the constitutional decision of 31 May 2017. This is, in our view, a frontal argument. The Council of State had criticized the current provisions and proposed a further division, which the Government had ruled out. The Constitutional Council itself, in its comment on the above-mentioned decision, observes: "It is undoubtedly legitimate to take into account the audience of the main parties and groupings. However, the desire for a grouping of major trends should not prevail over the need not to hinder the emergence of new political trends. » The Republic on the march, therefore, behaves, with this text, exactly like the parties of the "old world" whose hegemony it challenged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u96	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u97	She wants, now that she is in power, the exact opposite of what she defended during her conquest – or, we should say, her holding-up – of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u99	This reveals a certain uncertainty about its ability to convince because, if the ambitions of the Republic on its way to Europe found a resonance among the citizens, they would have no difficulty in voting for this project. The European Union that Emmanuel Macron defends, his government and the majority too often contradicts what the European project wanted to be, what it should be for the peoples of Europe and for the rest of the world. To try, through technocratic political approaches, to curb a necessary debate on the common European future is to try vainly to slow down the fall of a world that has failed to realize the dream of sovereignty and the emancipation of peoples. As we said, alongside our comrades in Podemos in Spain and the Portuguese Left Bloc, at the launch of our common European movement "Now the people! "The time has come to break with the straitjacket of European treaties that impose austerity and promote tax and social dumping. The time has come for those who believe in democracy to take a new step to break this unacceptable spiral. [...] We need institutions at the service of public freedoms and social rights, which are the very material basis of democracy. We need a popular, sovereign, democratic movement that defends the best conquests of our grandmothers and grandfathers, our fathers and mothers, and can bequeath a just, viable and sustainable social order to future generations. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u101	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Despite the maneuvers of the majority, many of us will share this message in Europe and France, and we have no doubt that we will be able to convince the greatest number of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u102	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have to discuss, once again, the draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament. It is a key text, given the importance of European policies and the uncertain future of European integration. The Communist Group welcomes the re-establishment of the single electoral district, which was in force until June 1999, before the division into eight major electoral districts, which was established in 2003. This choice is beneficial, although it will probably be insufficient to restore the interest it deserves to this election. However, we believe that this change can only improve the situation. The return to a single constituency will have the merit of making the issues more readable, political and understandable, by ridding them of a division into constituencies that did not correspond to absolutely any political reality. However, if we approve of this change in the voting mode, other elements of the text meet with our frank disapproval. First of all, we regret the fact that the 5% threshold is maintained in order to gain access to the distribution of seats. The intention of the bill is clear: it is a matter of limiting the effects of proportional voting, according to an old, tirelessly repeated fear about the instability that would relate to this type of voting. This feeling does not stand up to the examination of reality. In the most populous states, there is no threshold. This is for example the case of Germany, where the establishment of a threshold was considered unconstitutional since it would have prevented small parties from having elected members of the European Parliament. The same applies to Spain, Belgium and other countries. Some countries have, of course, adopted a threshold of representativeness, but only 3%: this is the case in Portugal and Greece. Some argue that the full proportion could block the institution, particularly when it comes to obtaining a majority. This argument is not valid in the case of the European Parliament, where the groups are constituted by the aggregation of Members from different states. The Group of the European United Left, for example, brings together elected representatives of various sensitivities, without any hindrance to this grouping of largely minority parties in their respective States. Finally, we believe that maintaining the 5% threshold is perfectly illogical, while election expenses remain reimbursed from 3% of the vote. That is why, in consistency, we have defended a median position, so that the threshold of eligibility is the threshold of reimbursement of campaign expenses, i.e. 3%. You will have understood, in our view, the correct representation of political sensitivities is never a disorder; On the contrary, it is a necessary democratic step forward. Our second disapproval, despite a slight advance allowed by the Senate, concerns the substitution of the principle of equity with that of equality for the official campaign. We want a balanced speaking time. The proposed method of calculation, on the contrary, leads to a clear imbalance because it will give a disproportionate speaking time to the list of the presidential majority, to the detriment of the political forces which are not or are not represented in Parliament. Undeniably, this bill will favour the dominant parties. In return, it will challenge the pluralism and representativeness of the weakest political parties in our country. All these imbalances in the distribution of speaking time will prevail for the European elections as well as for the general elections, since they are affected by this bill. We cannot be satisfied with it. This is a real suffocation of the political forces that challenge the liberal philosophy of the European Union. For Europe to give itself a new political horizon, it must be able to hear the anger and new aspirations of European citizens. This, in our view, is a democratic requirement. Thus, despite the re-establishment of the single electoral district, our group will abstain from this bill. It's a pity. It could have been otherwise if only the Government, beyond the major declarations of intent, had actually allowed the democratic progress expected with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u104	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u105	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u106	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u107	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u108	The next item is the discussion, after the expedited procedure, of the bill to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence (No. 778, 938).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u109	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u110	Mr President, the Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men, the Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, the Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Women, the Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against gender-based and sexual violence is a civilizational issue and, as such, a key priority for both public authorities and all actors in society. Indeed, it is quite intolerable that, in a State governed by the rule of law, respecting the republican principle of equality between citizens and striving to ensure respect for their dignity and the protection of their physical and psychological integrity, women and children continue to be victims of such violence. This priority objective was clearly stated by the President of the Republic in his speech on 25 November 2017 on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It is embodied in very proactive and energetic policies in this area led by my colleague Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men. It is reflected today in this bill, which we have jointly developed with Marlene Schiappa. This bill, first of all, obviously takes into account the numerous reports tabled on the issue of improving women's rights and defending child victims. I am thinking here, among other things, of the excellent report of the Flament-Calmettes consensus mission, which has worked on the delicate issue of adapting our statute of limitations on sexual crimes committed against minors. This bill then responds to the misunderstanding of recent judicial cases, in which 11-year-old girls were considered to have consented to sexual intercourse with major men. Finally, in the post-Weinstein context of freedom of speech, which we are witnessing in France as in other countries of the world, this bill allows us to improve our legislation on combating any form of harassment, whether committed on the Internet or on the street. This bill, which we have the honour to wear, greatly improves our repressive legislative arsenal, along four lines that I will now introduce to you. The first is to extend the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors from twenty to thirty years. This change appeared to be essential in order to allow more time for victims to lodge complaints and to facilitate the repression of such acts, especially when they are incestuous. This extension of the limitation is first of all consistent with the general increase in the limitation periods imposed by the Act of 27 February 2017. Prior to this reform, which increased the statute of limitations from 10 to 20 years for all crimes, the statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors was already 20 years, which was therefore longer than the ordinary statute of limitations. It is therefore not absurd to re-establish the temporal difference that existed between the statute of limitations for ordinary crimes and the statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors. This prolongation is then necessary to give victims the necessary time to denounce the facts, taking into account, inter alia, the mechanisms of traumatic memory, thus avoiding impunity for the perpetrators. The 30-year period beginning with the majority of the victim will allow the victim to reveal the facts until she reaches the age of 48, instead of the present 38 years. Some of you, as we know, would have liked these sexual crimes against minors to become imprescriptible. However, this solution cannot be adopted, for three main reasons. On the one hand, it seems to us that imprescriptibility must be limited to crimes which, by nature, are imprescriptible, namely crimes against humanity, in particular the crime of genocide. On the other hand, the thirty-year period that we propose to you is that already provided for in our law for the most serious crimes other than crimes against humanity, such as war crimes, eugenics and terrorism. This time limit seems satisfactory to us, especially since it will only begin to run for the majority of the victim. Finally, providing for the imprescriptibility of sexual crimes against minors would most likely be censored by the Constitutional Council. In its decision of 22 January 1999 on the Treaty on the Statute of the International Criminal Court, I would like to remind you that the Council has only accepted the imprescriptibility of crimes "affecting the entire international community", which is not the case with crimes committed against minors, despite their extreme seriousness. For these reasons in particular, the Flament-Calmettes report did not call for the choice of imprescriptibility, but rather for the extension of the statute of limitations to 30 years. This is the proposal put forward by the Government. The second focus of our bill is to facilitate and improve the punishment of rape and other sexual abuse against 15-year-olds, especially when committed by adults. To put forward this collective will, I think it is useful to answer four questions. First question: what is the rule of law? In the case of a sexual act against a minor, our Penal Code currently distinguishes between two categories of offences, whether or not there is violence, coercion, threat or surprise. The first category of offence is based on the existence of violence, coercion, threat or surprise. In such a case, there is either in case of penetration, a crime of rape, punishable by 20 years' imprisonment, or an offence of sexual assault without penetration – in fact touching –, punishable by 10 years' imprisonment. The second category of offence is triggered when there is no violence, coercion, threat or surprise, or when these elements are not established. This is the sexual offence, which is based on the prohibition provided for in our Penal Code of any sexual relationship between an adult and a minor of 15 years of age. In the case of a sexual act committed by an adult over a minor of 15 years of age, the offence of sexual assault shall be punishable by five years' imprisonment or ten years when the act is committed, inter alia, by an ascendant or a person with authority. So you see that today, the penalty for sexual assault is the same regardless of whether or not there is penetration. The boundary between these two categories of offences, including rape and sexual assault, is therefore based on the existence of violence, coercion, threat or surprise. The Penal Code already specifies that coercion may be moral and may result from the age difference between a victim, a minor, and the perpetrator, depending on the authority of law or fact imposed by the latter on the victim. However, the courts sometimes unwarrantedly consider that the minor has not been subjected to coercion or surprise and that there has therefore been no rape. The current provisions therefore give rise to complex litigation before the courts as to the possibility for a minor, below a certain age, to give informed consent to a sexual act with a person of age. These debates may, in some cases, lead to acquittal or acquittal decisions that are difficult to understand for our fellow citizens. Two recent examples, in Pontoise and Melun, have given rise to considerable controversy. We therefore need to change our legislation. The second question that I would like to answer is: what are the paths that we have ruled out and what are the choices that we have made to build this new rule of law? Several avenues for reform have been ruled out, particularly in view of the very precise and comprehensive opinion given by the Council of State on 15 March. The first was to introduce, for minors of a certain age – fifteen or thirteen years old, the opinions diverged – a presumption of lack of consent, thus a presumption of rape in case of sexual act with penetration. This solution was rejected because, as noted by the Council of State, the establishment of legal presumptions in criminal matters would be contrary to the treaty and constitutional requirements of respect for the presumption of innocence. Presumptions are acceptable in the case of contraventions or, exceptionally, in the case of certain offences, provided that they are simple presumptions, which can be combated by evidence to the contrary, but they are certainly not possible for crimes. Assuming that they were possible, the presumptions should have been simple and not irrefragable. The evidence to the contrary could always have been provided by the accused, and it was therefore not possible to delete the debate on the existence of the minor's consent. The second avenue we explored was to change the elements of rape or sexual assault when they involve minors below a certain age, by providing that, in such cases, violence, coercion, threat or surprise was no longer an element of the offence. This trail was not viable. On the one hand, it was legally difficult to have two definitions of rape varying according to the age of the victim. On the other hand, there was the question of fixing the age of the minors concerned. It appeared inappropriate to set an age of less than 15 years, in particular that of 13 years, as it seemed unacceptable to make sexual assaults lawful by an adult over a minor aged between 13 and 15 years. The only threshold that could be used was necessarily 15 years. However, the Council of State has indicated to us that such a solution would also be contrary to treaty and constitutional requirements, because of the automaticity to which it leads. It had the effect of systematically classifying as rape any sexual relationship between a minor of almost fifteen years of age and a young adult of eighteen years of age, even though this relationship had begun before, between a minor of fourteen years of age and a minor of seventeen years of age, and was then lawful because it was freely consented to. Of course, in such a case, there is a crime, but the prosecutor can then use his power of opportunity to assess the reality of the situation, which is much more difficult for a crime. This solution has therefore also been ruled out. In this bill, the Government has chosen the only legally acceptable solution to improve the fight against sexual offences committed against minors. The first is to clarify the concept of moral coercion or surprise when a sexual act is committed against a minor of 15 years of age, in order to promote, in this case, the use of the term rape or sexual assault. On this point, the draft proposed to clarify that, when the acts are committed against a person under fifteen years of age, moral coercion or surprise "may result from the abuse of the victim's ignorance without the maturity or discernment necessary to consent to such acts". Your Committee on Laws, on the initiative of your rapporteur, has improved this provision, on the one hand, by replacing the notion of "abuse of ignorance" with that of "abuse of vulnerability", which is indeed more appropriate, and, on the other hand, by referring only to the insufficient discernment of the minor, the notion of maturity being subject to challenge. This rewriting is very welcome and shows the quality of the work of your committee, to which I would like to pay tribute here. Our proposal is then to punish sexual assault more severely when it involves penetration. There was a legal vacuum to be filled, I repeat, in order to better protect minors of 15 years of age from sexual abuse. From now on, even in the absence of violence, coercion, threat or surprise, such an act committed by a major against a minor of fifteen years of age will be punished by ten years' imprisonment. The punishment will therefore be increased, since the penalty is doubled compared to that for sexual assault without penetration. Finally, our text sets out the rules on subsidiary questions before the Assize Court, in order to ensure that, if the Court did not qualify as rape, it can convict the accused of the sexual offence. The third question: how will this new rule of law make it possible to better respond to the desire to combat sexual crimes committed against minors? He will first respond by avoiding cases in which the courts wrongly consider that there has been no rape of a minor. Currently, judicial practice shows this, the physical appearance of the minor or his/her knowledge of sexual practices, particularly as a result of access to pornography on the Internet, sometimes leads judges or jurors to believe that the minor has been able to freely consent to a sexual relationship with an adult. Such an analysis is obviously not acceptable: what counts is the only discernment of the 15-year-old to consent or not to a sexual relationship. If discernment is not sufficient, there will be moral compulsion or surprise; Therefore, rape will occur in the event of penetration, even if the minor under the age of 15 seems physically much older. The clear inclusion of this rule in the Criminal Code will put an end to questionable judicial practices. The project then responds to the current difficulties by providing that, even in cases where it appears that the 15-year-old has sufficient discernment, any sexual penetration by a major will be punished not more than five years' imprisonment, but ten years' imprisonment. If the Assize Court considers that rape is not constituted, it will then have to apply the new penalties for sexual assault with penetration, after asking a question to that effect. The prohibition of sexual relations between an adult and a minor of 15 years of age is thus expressly affirmed by the new provisions, since our Penal Code will lay down as clearly as possible the prohibition of sexual relations between an adult and minors of 15 years of age, which, I repeat, in case of penetration, will constitute rapes, punishable by 20 years' imprisonment or sexual offences, punishable by 10 years' imprisonment. These new rules, well understood, seem to me to be able to respond to the concerns raised by women's and children's rights associations. Fourth point I should like to address: it should be stressed that the worsening of the repression of sexual assault on a 15-year-old child resulting from penetration is obviously not intended, nor will it result, either, in the correction of rapes committed against minors. I find the concerns of some to be unfounded. The cases now under the jurisdiction of the Assize Court will continue to be directed towards this jurisdiction and will retain a criminal characterization. The new criminalization of sexual assault with penetration, punishable by 10 years' imprisonment, will ensure, in other cases, effective and dissuasive repression, which will better protect minors of 15 years of age. On the contrary, the Government wants to combat correction by facilitating the prosecution of rape. It does so, in this bill, by specifying the notion of moral coercion or surprise on a minor of fifteen years of age. It will also do so in the draft law on programming and reform for justice by providing for the experimentation of a departmental criminal court, composed of five magistrates, which may try in the first instance, instead of the court of assizes, crimes punishable by 15 or 20 years' imprisonment, thus rapes committed against minors. This will make it possible to pursue more simply and more fully the facts that are now being rectified because of the cumbersome procedure before the Court of Assizes. It is therefore only – I insist on this point – when the definition of rape cannot be accepted that the provisions punishing sexual assault with penetration more severely, which is in the very interest of the victims. With this bill, there will therefore be no room for impunity for those who sexually abuse children under the age of 15. On the contrary, the dual evolution of the definition of rape and the punishment of sexual abuse will ensure a firm and appropriate repression of the perpetrators of such conduct, and prevent the commission of such acts. The methods of repression provided for in this text also have another advantage, which I would like to stress because it is essential, which the Council of State has pointed out in its opinion: they will be immediately applicable to the proceedings in progress, even for acts committed before the reform, because it is an interpretative text, which clarifies and clarifies the notions of coercion and surprise. Finally, I would like to say a final word about the punishment of sexual offences under the prism of the issue of incest, which has been discussed in the Committee on Laws and which is also the subject of amendments at the sitting. The laws of 8 February 2010 and, after censorship by the Constitutional Council, of 14 March 2016 incorporated the concept of incest into the Criminal Code. Now, when sexual offences of rape, sexual assault or sexual assault are committed against a minor by a member of his family, they are overqualified as incest by the court or court of assize, in order to demonstrate the specificity and seriousness of these acts. In the commission of laws, the Government has not objected to the extension of the criminal concept of incest – which, I would remind you, is distinct from the concept of the civil code – by providing for the hypothesis of incest committed on a major or by a first cousin of the victim. Other extensions may be discussed in the session, including children of recomposed families, as the Government is open to such a development. On the other hand, the Government is opposed to the idea of revisiting the very logic of the laws of 2010 and 2016, which chose not to aggravate the penalties incurred. Indeed, if incest became a legal aggravating circumstance or a specific crime more severely punished, it could no longer apply immediately to all proceedings, including those involving acts committed in the past because, as you know, our Constitution prohibits the imposition of more stringent criminal laws. However, in the very interests of the victims, I believe it is essential that the definition of incest be applied to all of them. The Government would therefore not be able to accept amendments that aggravated the repression of incest in law. I would add that these amendments do not seem to me to be practically useful because when a court of assize finds the existence of the overqualification of incest, it is, logically, imposing more severe penalties in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u112	I'll be shorter now. The third pillar of the bill improves the definition of sexual or moral harassment offences. The latter currently require repetition of the facts, a repetition that must emanate from the same person. In order to repress the situations in which this repetition emanates from several people, particularly in the case of a "digital raid", when several Internet users send offensive emails to the same victim, a proposal was made: it consisted of extending these offences when the acts are committed in a concerted manner by several people even though each of them has not acted repeatedly. Your committee, on the proposal of your rapporteur, has extended this extension of the offences to include instigation or when people act knowing that other people have already offended the victim. This extension is quite appropriate and I welcome, again, this notable improvement due to the work of your committee. The fourth and final axis of the bill should allow for the suppression of so-called "street" harassment by creating a new offence of gender-based contempt, which is defined by a group of parliamentarians. The perpetrators of these acts may therefore be subject to a flat-rate fine. This violation will also have a strong symbolic aspect. This is one of the essential elements of the plan of action announced by the President of the Republic in November 2017, defended, on these very specific points, by Marlène Schiappa, obviously with the support of the Ministry of the Interior. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that Marlène Schiappa and I have the honour to present to you meets the strong expectations of our fellow citizens: to strengthen the legal means available to the judicial authority to enable it to enforce the rights of women and children on a daily basis, by ending the feeling of impunity for perpetrators of sexual and gender-based violence. From this point of view, this text is a major step forward. I would therefore like it to be adopted in its improved version by your committee, without prejudice, of course, to further improvements which may be made at the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to draw your attention to one point: it seems to me that this text goes as far as is possible in the light of the constitutional and conventional principles that are binding on all of us in a state governed by the rule of law. In the Committee on Laws, some of you have indicated that Parliament should not hesitate to take the risk of possible censorship by the Constitutional Council. I cannot, of course, subscribe to such an analysis, not only because of my former functions, but also because of respect for our democratic institutions and mainly for reasons of pure common sense. I recall that in the area of sexual offences, through the priority issues of constitutionality, the Constitutional Council has already censored twice our criminal law: in September 2011, on the definition of incest; in May 2012, on the definition of sexual harassment. These two censorships have given rise to inextricable difficulties for our jurisdictions and have been particularly traumatic for the victims. It would seem tricky to reproduce such mistakes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] That is why I ask you once again to consider this project with all the progress it contains and respecting the balances it has retained because it fully responds to the challenges of civilization that we are facing. It will finally allow, as the President of the Republic recalled in his speech in November 2017, that "the shame is changing sides".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u114	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u115	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, dear Nicole Belloubet, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, dear Yaël Braun-Pivet, Mrs Rapporteur, dear Alexandra Louis, Madam Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights, dear Marie-Pierre Rixain, ladies and gentlemen, giving figures and percentages is still a delicate exercise in gender-based and sexual violence. Indeed, the taboo that has been weighing on this subject for centuries, the shame that the aggressors try to make the victims feel, the fear of not being believed, have for too long forced them to silence and made society deaf to gender-based or sexual violence. However, on the basis of official figures – 10% complaints, 10% convictions – it could be inferred that about 1% of rapists would be in prison. Where would the remaining 99% be? Free! Almost all rapists in France, in 2018, are free – this is a fact – to live their lives, to go and come peacefully from their home to their workplace, to go on a trip, to take the bus, to participate in parties, to approach children. This observation is revolting for a rule of law, for a democracy like France, the cradle of philosophical feminism. This is unacceptable and will no longer be accepted: it is the meaning of our bill. Would they only be 90 per cent, 60 per cent or 30 per cent, even if there was one unconvicted rapist left, he would be a rapist too many! The reasons for what some call "relative impunity" are many: the silence I mentioned, the access to the complaint, the difficulty in the trials leading to real convictions in court, for lack of clear texts that are consistent with actual and current situations. Silence, women from all over the world have begun to settle his account. At the same time, all over the world, women who did not know each other and did not cooperate shared experiences through social networks. Thus, they allowed society as a whole to remove the eyes that it was wearing. We are talking about the liberation of women's words, and that is indeed what has happened. But it is above all the listening to society that has finally liberated itself, because we, women, have been talking about sexual assaults, rapes, street harassment, sexual harassment at work, the abusers of the metro, the attacks we live, gender-based insults, intimidations, threats faced by our friends, sisters and daughters; It's been generations that we fear for ourselves or for them, every day or almost according to contexts. Access to the complaint, we're working on it. As an elected official on this issue and as network president for ten years, I have received many times from women who had experienced gender-based and sexual violence without having filed a complaint or reporting that they felt that they had been misunderstood, misunderstood or misaccepted. The Government is taking this issue with arms. How? By financing positions of psychologists or social workers in the police stations – they are now almost 1300 throughout the country – in order to fully support citizens who are coming to file complaints, in addition, of course, to the care provided by the police. By training the police, as well as the gendarmes and the municipal police, through the inter-ministerial mission for the protection of women from violence and the fight against trafficking in human beings, MIPROF, so that they can be fully aware of all sources of gender-based and sexual violence. Since the inception of these programmes, almost 500,000 professionals have benefited from training provided by MIPROF. By maintaining all the national subsidies of all associations that carry out remarkable work to accompany women until the judicialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u116	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u117	I repeat this here because a lot of false information has circulated: my State Secretariat has not reduced the subsidy of any national association whose mission is to receive the victims!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u118	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u119	None, zero, not one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u120	That's what all the associations say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Not a single penny, unlike the lies that were uttered!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u122	You're treating women's associations as liars?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Some of them have even seen their subsidies increase. And it is my pride, in a period of serious budget, to have been able to launch, this week, a new call for projects against gender-based and sexual violence at work, for a new amount of 1 million euros, which will be distributed region by region, in order to provide answers and accompaniment, as close as possible to the daily life of each woman. That is the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u124	Lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u125	By creating – this is a great novelty – an online platform for contact between victims of violence and police, which will be fully funded by the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, it is the role of the State, as a leader in public policies on women's rights, to take over and not leave victims alone. It is our role and we intend to play it fully. From now on, we will better detect this violence, through the creation of local contracts for the prevention of gender-based and sexual violence, which will enable each prefect to articulate police, justice, emergency and social workers, in order to act before it is too late. Similarly, platforms for geolocation of emergency accommodation, accessible only to professionals, will enable women to emerge from inextricable situations from the first threats, from the first blow. We will further educate the younger generations, by having the three mandatory annual sessions on emotional and sexual life education applied in school as soon as the coming year, which will allow us to address the concept of consent. The universal civil service, in accordance with the campaign commitment of the President of the Republic, will also be able to train an entire age group to combat gender stereotypes and to respect the integrity of each individual. We will also communicate because a cultural struggle is won by changing mentalities, and it is also by communicating that these mentalities are changed. The Government – this is unprecedented – invests €4 million in a large communications campaign, in addition to those that we have already broadcast massively, in order to question witnesses about their power and duty to act against gender-based and sexual violence. It is also in this spirit that we have launched two major plans, with the Ministry of Public Action and Accounts and with the Ministry of Labour, to better prevent, alert and punish gender-based and sexual violence in the workplace. These public policies, which are not all subject to the law, we have been carrying them out for months. None of them alone is sufficient, taken in isolation; They form a whole, with all the actions that are carried out by the Government. If I mention some of them here, it is so that everyone can have a clear understanding of the comprehensive approach taken by the Government to effectively combat all forms of gender-based and sexual violence, at all times, at all times. Thus, the question remains of the prosecution of such gender-based and sexual violence. This is the subject of the text that we now present to you with the custody of the seals. The moment that brings us together is the culmination of intense and long collective work, which has been engaged for many months and, I dare say, for many years. Those of you who, like me, have been working for a long time on the issue of equality between women and men are well aware of this: until very recently, this was neither the most visible area of specialization nor, moreover, the best considered, including by the public authorities. I still have the clear memory of collective scepticism when we hear the subject in an analysis note, a book or through a public, local or national policy. The issue of street harassment, in particular, which is part of the daily lives of many women and girls, passed under the radars of public policies until, during his campaign, in a meeting at Le Mans in 2016, Emmanuel Macron addressed precisely the question of what he then called "specific insecurity" experienced by women in the public space. He had made a commitment to make equality between women and men the main cause of his quinquennium, and that commitment was made, including a national tribute to women who died under the blows of their spouses or ex-spouses and to victims of gender-based or sexual violence, marked by a minute of silence at the Elysée. It is a significant and truly historic event in our Republic, and even in the world. Faithful both to the campaign commitments of the President of the Republic and to the method that characterized the constitution of his programme, I decided to launch a great tour de France of equality between women and men. Here I would like to thank the 55,000 participants, who have drawn many lessons from it. The expectations expressed during this round of equality in France, the largest citizen consultation ever organised, confirmed what our fellow citizens had told us during the campaign: real equality will be impossible as long as society continues to tolerate gender-based and sexual violence in such a massive way. It was in order to make the system of violence visible, not the victims, that the Government decided, almost a year ago, to replace the institutional term "violence against women", used so far, with that of "sexist and sexual violence". Gender-based and sexual violence can also affect children and even men, and that is another taboo that we will not forget to lift. Thank you for adopting this name. The bill that we will be debating complements this arsenal. As you know, its elaboration has been based on the work of many experts. This text has also been informed by the proposals from the France round of equality, which I have already mentioned, making it the first major citizens' law of the quinquennium. Of course, as evidenced by the committed presence of the guard of the seals, it is in close cooperation with the chancellery, and with the necessary illumination of the Council of State, that the drafting of our text has been finalized. It is now up to you to amend it in order to enrich it, in the same spirit of consultation and cooperation, I hope. In this regard, I would like to commend the colossal work of the Law Committee, led by its Chairman, Yaël Braun-Pivet, and its rapporteur, Alexandra Louis, and by the delegation for women's rights, whose rapporteurs, Marie-Pierre Rixain and Erwan Balanant, I salute. I would also like to thank the Members of the Trans-Partisan Working Group on Verbalisation of Street Harassment and all the Members of all the groups that have advocated amendments to improve this text. More than 270 amendments have been studied in committee. I want to see this as a sign of interest and commitment on the part of all Members, because the vast majority of these amendments have been proposed in a constructive spirit, regardless of the opinion or political affiliation of the authors. It is with pride that we have been able, on behalf of the Government, to give a favourable opinion on many of these amendments, including some from the opposition. We have thus been able to move forward in a constructive spirit, apart from the usual divisions, with a clear and unique aim: to combat gender-based and sexual violence. I think I can say that we all share the main objective: to strengthen the protection of victims of gender-based and sexual violence, especially when they are minors, and to strengthen sanctions against perpetrators of such violence. Article 1 of the draft law is intended to extend the limitation period for crimes committed against minors by 10 years, by increasing it to 30 years from the majority of the victim, who will now be able to lodge a complaint until the age of 48 years. This development responds to a need: to better take into account the difficulty victims have in reporting the facts, which can be explained, in particular, by the mechanisms of traumatic memory. This will give the victim more time to overcome the trauma before taking legal action. It is therefore the concrete translation of the conclusions of the consensus mission chaired by Flavie Flament and Jacques Calmettes, commissioned under the previous legislature and which the President of the Republic, during the presidential campaign, had committed himself to implement. The guarding of seals has developed this question widely and I do not go back to it any further. Clause 2 of our bill is a translation of this common goal: to better protect children from sexual violence. In order to achieve this objective, we do not all agree on the proposals, the formulations and the solutions to be implemented, but it is still a common objective. The Government's intention is to set a clear age limit of 15 years. Why was the option of this age chosen by the Government and the President of the Republic? First, because it was this threshold that was systematically retained during the citizen consultations, but also by the multidisciplinary mission set up by the Prime Minister. This group of experts stressed, in its opinion, that neurosciences prove the psychological fragility of the child under fifteen years of age and the damage caused by sexual violence. It is also a benchmark for practitioners – I will mention, for example, the age of hospitalization in adult services. In the law, then, the 15-year threshold is already recognized as a reference for the criminal protection of minors. Finally, 15 years of age corresponds to the median age in other European countries – 14 years in Germany or 16 years in Spain. It would also not be acceptable, not understandable by public opinion, to choose to protect minors under the age of 13 and to leave children between the ages of 13 and 15 without such protection. The purpose of article 2 is therefore to strengthen the criminalization of sexual abuse committed against minors of 15 years of age. I am pleased to be able to provide a number of clarifications today. This is, for the Government, a civilizational issue, no more or less. Clause 2 of the bill is therefore the legal translation, in terms that respect the architecture of our law and constitutional principles. The Government had decided to translate the principle of presumption into law and had chosen the only legally acceptable solution to improve the fight against sexual offences committed against minors. In article 222-22-1 of the Criminal Code, on sexual assault, the following sentence is added: "When the acts are committed against a person under fifteen years of age, moral coercion or surprise are characterized by the abuse of vulnerability of the victim who does not have the discernment necessary to consent to such acts. The strength of this proposal also lies in its immediate applicability, as soon as the law is promulgated, as the keeper of seals has explained very well. Moreover, this article allows for a better punishment of the offence of sexual abuse, by increasing the penalties from five to seven or ten years' imprisonment, as appropriate. Here again, I wish to raise the questions that this provision may have raised: it must not be truncated from the previous part; Alone, she wouldn't make any sense. Not only will it not lead to the de-qualification of rapes committed against minors under the age of fifteen, but, on the contrary, it will avoid the use of correction through, on the one hand, the facilitation of the establishment of coercion or surprise by the new article 222-22-1 of the Criminal Code, and, on the other hand, the principle of the mandatory subsidiary question on the classification of sexual assault provided for in article 351 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In a case of aggravated rape, if it has not been possible to establish the existence of the elements of the offence, despite the improvements mentioned above, the judge will now have to ask the question of requalification, in order to avoid acquittal. Our goal is to avoid acquittals by sexual abusers; find, by all means, a way to make them condemn each time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u126	There you go! This is the assumed correction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u127	The article is therefore in line with the twofold objective that we have set ourselves: to strengthen the prohibition of sexual relations between an adult and a child aged 15 years; to strengthen the penalties for the perpetrators of these sexual offences. It makes it possible to affirm a principle: any penetration of a child under the age of 15 by an adult, including if the latter is presented as consented – and therefore not covered by the definition of rape – is prohibited by law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Any countersense, any statement to the contrary would only be a manoeuvre, which could be laughable if it did not send a dangerous message, by trying to make the aggressors believe that their violence will be even less punished, while everything we propose here, while our whole struggle aims to condemn them as never before has been the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u128	You're right against associations, against everyone! How humble!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u129	The workshops of the French Women's and Men's Equality Tour have shown massively that young people, especially young women, are now particularly exposed to new forms of gender-based and sexual violence in the new public space that has become the Internet. These massive online violence take the same forms in cyberspace as in the real world: insults, moral and sexual harassment, threats of rape or death. Such violence in virtual space has the same causes and consequences for the health, social and intimate life of the victims as those committed in the real world. All these forms of violence must be taken into account. That is the meaning of clause 3 of our bill: to adapt the right to this new configuration and to the new possibilities that the Internet offers to aggressors. This article therefore specifically targets digital raids, i.e. the publication by several different authors of sexist and violent statements made only once by each individual against the same target. We want to send a clear message to online stalkers and trolls, to those who incite or take part in the spread of online hatred: we do not tolerate these acts which, from now on, will not go unpunished in the French Republic. Finally, the fourth and final provision of this bill is intended to punish so-called "street" harassment by creating a new offence: "sexist outrage". This provision is one of the strong commitments that the President of the Republic made during the presidential campaign. Street harassment is one of the dead corners of our positive law. These behaviours have never been repressed while seriously hampering women's freedom and autonomy. Eight out of ten women say they are afraid to go out alone in the evenings, according to the recent study by the Jean-Jaurès Foundation. Street harassment is indeed a fundamental violation of their freedom to come and go. This violation of women's rights affects women's lives as a whole. Those who, in their daily journey to work, must first of all be concerned with their safety and develop strategies for avoidance or survival, cannot have the spirit of conquest necessary for their professional success and for the achievement of professional equality between women and men. Similarly, girls and young women who go to the co-worker, high school or university cannot pass their exams serenely if, every day, they have to devote part of their time to concern themselves with their safety in transport. Fear is already a fact with dramatic consequences for women's health. These survival strategies, however, are known and implemented by the majority of women. In this way, street harassment has a lasting impact on their daily lives by pushing them to adopt avoidance strategies, to change their journeys, not to leave too late, and to consider solutions for retreat. The purpose of the new offence is to punish all statements or behaviours involving sexist or sexual connotation imposed on a person and violating his or her dignity, on account of their degrading or humiliating character, or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive situation against him or her. Such conduct will now be verbalized by a fourth-class fine, punishable by a maximum fine of 750 euros, which may be subject to the simplified procedure of the flat-rate fine. If the acts are committed with certain aggravating circumstances – for example on a minor of fifteen years old or on public transport – the draft law provides for a fifth class contravention, punishable by a fine of up to 1500 euros or 3000 euros in case of recidivism. In addition, the perpetrators may be sentenced to several additional penalties, including the obligation to attend an internship against sexism. Such behaviour may be immediately reported by the police force, including the daily security police. As announced by the Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, the 10,000 daily security officers who will be recruited will also be trained and equipped to verbalize gender-based outrage and thus guarantee the effectiveness of this measure. Intimidating, threatening, following, harassing, invectiveizing women in the streets or transportation: soon, it will be in the past! Everyone has an opinion on how best to combat and condemn gender-based and sexual violence, based on their own experiences, the attacks or rapes they have unfortunately suffered, the cases in which they have been able to witness, rescue, support or confidant. That's legitimate. For too long, expertise has been opposed to experience in the area of equality between women and men. There are many of us in this Chamber – perhaps even many in the masculine – who have suffered gender-based and sexual violence. It is up to us to take this into account, but also and above all to take into account the experiences of each victim, the different cases, the different trajectories, the different failures. Because if only 1% of rapists sleep in prison, it is because of a collective fault that has persisted. Witnesses have sometimes failed. Justice has sometimes been lacking. Society as a whole has sometimes been lacking. I note that gender-based and sexual violence are the only cases of concern to the courts. No one ever doubts the need to file a complaint after a phone theft or burglary. Why should police stations be deserted when it comes to sexual violence? Similarly, no one ever accuses the burglars whose houses would be too well decorated, of having called for burglary. It is time to stop collectively invulgating women for their outfits or appearance: a mini-skirt, a smile, have never been a call to street harassment. Rape was never a tool of seduction. Harassment is nothing romantic. The body of women is not a public good. A child is never consenting to sexual intercourse with an adult. The Internet is not an area of no law. All experts demonstrate that there is a continuum of gender-based and sexual violence. It's not all worth it, it's true. But the exponential increase in sexual and gender-based violence can lead to rape or even murder. We must not let anything pass. There is no small assault, no insult without consequences, no permanent oblivion, no intimidation we're really recovering from, no tweet threatening rape drowned in the mass of hundreds of others threatening rape. We have the responsibility for how we create representations, of which we build a collective unconscious. It is up to us to remedy this, as a public authority, in order to better condemn gender-based and sexual violence, and thus to oppose the feeling of impunity of sexual abusers a new real fear of punishment, lowering the threshold of tolerance of society as a whole to gender-based and sexual violence, inhibiting the passage to action, preventing recidivism, to never again hear it "may have sought it" in the face of street harassment, "it only had to dress like this" in the face of rape, "it was not easy every day" in the face of domestic violence and femicide, "it had only to give its opinion on social networks without ceasing" in the face of gender-based cyber-harasssment in the pack – in short, they had nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the representatives of the people. This bill that the Government has introduced to you, you have already amended it in committee, and you will probably improve it further in our debates. This text, once voted, will become the text of the National Assembly, marking the will of our people to firmly combat gender-based and sexual violence. Whatever benches you sit on, I know you have one will: to protect more effectively, through the law, the children, the women and the men who live in our country. You are, we are all, watched, listened to by the citizens, who ask us to act ever more so as not to let anything pass, who expect exemplary and inspiring laws from France. Far from marking differences, this text will bring us together because it goes beyond divisions, postures, incantations. It will give strength to our daily collective struggle to change society. Let us not miss this opportunity to do better, respecting the law, the citizens, and what unites us! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] I know that many of you have adapted this text and conducted passionate debates but, like Anatole France, "I have always preferred the madness of passions to the wisdom of indifference". I therefore want to see in our debates the end of French society's indifference to gender-based and sexual violence, and, whatever your political groups may be, I would like to welcome your commitment to this cause that is beyond our reach. I therefore wish us passionate, but also respectful and honest debates. Let's all live up to it: let's not let anything go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u130	I call Mrs Alexandra Louis, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u131	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Madam Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot speak to this text without thinking of the many poignant testimonies I have heard during its preparation and its consideration in committee. These victims were confronted with the cruelty, the unspeakable and then the silence that fell. Many took time to make themselves heard and to denounce their executioners. However, behind these testimonies, this liberation from speech and especially from listening, is a black figure, a terrible number, that of the too many victims, minors for many, who do not speak, who may never speak. Another black figure is that, far too high, of the perpetrators of these abuses who are not sufficiently prosecuted. Finally, a third black figure is that of all the violence that is taking place in the daily lives of too many of our fellow citizens, and above all of our fellow citizens, and that remains unpunished. These violences have a thousand faces, they know no geographical limits, they have no age, they have no religion, they spare no sphere of society. They are involved in families, at work, at school, in public spaces and on the Internet. We find them in all sectors, in all socio-occupational categories. They have gone through centuries but are not fatal. It is at least the teaching that must be drawn from the commitment of those who have made this noble cause, that of equality and dignity, a struggle of every moment, even at times when their words were not echoed. A major cause of the quinquennium, equality between women and men is embodied in an unwavering will of the Government, and I would like to acknowledge the unwavering commitment of Mrs. Custody of Seals and Ms. Secretary of State. This commitment is primarily to combat violence and to change shame and fear. This text, improved and refined in the Law Commission, is divided into four main areas of criminal law. Each of them provides responses to violence that the current, albeit already very large, legislative arsenal is struggling to suppress effectively. The first axis gives time: the time needed for these children who have become adults to remember, to make words about acts and then to choose to prosecute by filing a complaint against their aggressors. It is therefore planned to extend the statute of limitations from twenty to thirty years from the age of majority for crimes committed against minors. This extension, which makes it possible to initiate public action until the victim's 48th birthday, is the implementation of one of the proposals emanating from the consensus mission chaired by Mrs Flavie Flament and Mr Jacques Calmettes. As we know today, complex psychological mechanisms are sometimes at work in cases of sexual assault, such as post-traumatic amnesia or dissociative disorders. They cause emotional anaesthesia that prevents the victim from immediately knowing that she has been the victim of a crime. We must give the injured victims the time they need at the heart of their childhood. The age of thirty-eight years, because it corresponds to the period of life of women – and also men – where there are usually significant family and personal constraints, can be an obstacle to the filing of complaints for victims. The adoption of article 1 would be a strong signal to engrave the specificity of sexual crimes committed against minors in the marble of the law, as a result of the extension of the statute of limitations. The second is to better protect children, who are most targeted by sexual violence. It is time to set in the Criminal Code an age which the judge must take into account in the assessment of crimes of sexual assault and rape: this age will be fifteen years. It is provided for in both the Criminal Code and that of the sexual majority and constitutes a measure of puberty. In addition, it has been shown that trauma before this age is much more prevalent and causes deep damage to the structure and development of the brain. In other words, we wish to acknowledge in this text the particular vulnerability of minors under 15 years of age. I know that, on these benches, some would like to propose other texts that restrict the office of the judge much more. The emotion inherent in this subject must not engage us in a risky approach or even an overbidding. "Laws are not pure acts of power; They are acts of wisdom, justice and reason. These words of Portalis should invite us to show a spirit of responsibility, especially since the subject is particularly serious. I know that the Council of State and the experts interviewed in the preparation of these debates have clearly warned us of the unconstitutionality of the presumptions that will be proposed in our debates. The memory of the Constitutional Council's invalidation in 2012 of the offence of sexual harassment must reinforce our vigilance in view of the serious consequences for thousands of victims, deprived of the possibility of the prosecution and condemnation of their harassers. Above all, this text satisfies the requirement to better protect our children since the judge will now be obliged to take into account, in the characterization of rape and sexual assault, the particular vulnerability and lack of discernment of 15-year-olds. Moreover, this wording has the merit of finding an application for facts prior to the promulgation of this text, which I hope will be voted on. Finally, to take into account all situations, the project strengthens the suppression of sexual abuse. It is planned to increase the penalties by increasing the prison sentence from five to ten years and the fine from €75000 to €150,000 when an act of sexual penetration of a minor has been committed without violence, coercion, threat or surprise. The best interests of the child must also lead to a better suppression of all other forms of violence. Because a child witness to violence is a child victim, we have introduced, in the commission of laws, the creation of a new aggravating circumstance so that violence committed in the presence of minors is more severely punished. This provision responds to the Council of Europe's invitation in the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, ratified in 2014. Children are the first spectators of domestic violence and remain marked for life. The sentence must reflect this reality. The third axis of the text addresses cyber-harassment, which takes the form of digital raids. The victim, alone behind his phone or computer screen, is faced with a surge of hateful or humiliating messages. She's like trapped. The targets of digital raids regularly show that there is a forward and a later for them. More than 10% of college students are targeted by these digital assaults. The current legislation is not adequate to respond to these violent attitudes and statements. The offences of sexual or moral harassment do not, in such cases, apply since the victims are not harassed by a single person but by a plurality of perpetrators. In order to overcome this void, the statements or behaviours imposed on the same victim by several persons, in a concerted manner or at the instigation of one of them, will have to be repressed. These are the contributions made in the commission of laws. The final focus of the bill is on a much-awaited measure by our fellow citizens, which responds to a daily concern: street harassment. A real malaise has settled, it has even become commonplace. The behaviour of those who harass violates the freedom to go and come from their victims. The creation of the offence of sexist contempt therefore constitutes a firm prohibition. It punishes the imposition on a person of any sexual or gender-based speech or behaviour that violates his or her dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive situation against him or her. Because it is not enough to create a new offence to harass behaviour, section 4 also provides for the introduction of a fourth and fifth class contravention in case of aggravating circumstances. This penalty may be supplemented by awareness-raising courses. Through this text, we are strengthening our legislative arsenal to better combat gender-based and sexual violence. We allow more victims to be heard and we will have more perpetrators convicted of these acts that destroy those who suffer them. We are helping to make our society more open and less discriminating. However, in order to succeed, our work must not focus solely on the criminalization of gender-based and sexual violence. Because, if there's a penalty, it's because there was aggression. We will now have to work around Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa to prevent such violence. If the first education is to be done in families, the State must play its part. In the crèche, in the school and in the public space, only one message must be hammered: no, gender-based and sexual violence is not tolerable! Those who are the perpetrators break lives and get out of the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In this respect, it will be necessary to be reactive and inventive. This text is the first stone of a work that we will continue in these places and that we will not lead alone. We will have to use all the means at our disposal, in partnership with all the actors. Victims' associations, educational structures, public broadcasting, civil society as a whole: society as a whole must participate. It is a political fight in which we will engage with courage and firmness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u132	The next speaker is Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur on behalf of the delegation for women's rights and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Law Committee, the Rapporteur, the Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, the information report adopted by our delegation on this bill unfortunately once again shows the ubiquitous nature of violence against women in our country. You only know too much about the numbers: they are without a call. Gender-based and sexual violence is a massive phenomenon in our society, always marked by sexism. Sex-based stereotypes continue to assign women and men to predefined roles that legitimize acceptable relationships of domination. Such violence, whether physical, sexual or verbal, is extremely destructive for the victims because, as we have been told in the many hearings we have conducted, it has short- and long-term physiological and psychological consequences, serious, deep and lasting. These are all human tragedies that forever mark the lives of the victims. Such violence also has a huge cost to society. Who can accept such behaviour, leading to the construction of an unequal society, in which women must take precautions and implement strategies every day so as not to expose themselves to the violence to which they might be subjected? Who can accommodate a society in which women have to pay more attention than men to what they post on the Internet and social networks, because they are more likely to be victims of cyber-violence and cyber-harassment? Who can be satisfied with an unequal society in which women face daily degrading, sometimes trivialized, statements that constitute a major obstacle to equality between women and men, especially in the fields of education and work? Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot and must not accept this situation. It is intolerable for women and girls to be worried, harassed, raped, assaulted or raped in our Republic. Victims need to be better supported and perpetrators better punished. It was in this dual perspective that we conducted our work, particularly through numerous hearings, which allowed us to look in detail at the three main areas covered by the bill: sexual violence against minors; cyber-violence; gender-based harassment in public space. Without going back in detail to the sixteen recommendations of our report, which was unanimously adopted by the delegation on women's rights, I would like to stress three points that I believe are essential to change attitudes. First of all, on behalf of the delegation, I would like to recall that we welcome the strengthening of the 15-year age limit for the protection of minors from sexual crimes. It seems to me essential to clarify the prohibitions and to strengthen the sanctions: a sexual relationship between an adult and a minor of 15 years of age is prohibited. Contrary to what has been heard in the last few days or even in the last few hours, the text represents a real step forward. It then seems important to me to stress the relevance of the mechanism proposed in Article 3 to combat digital raids. The Internet cannot be an area of lawlessness, and we must be vigilant to ensure respect for women's rights, including in virtual spaces. We propose to facilitate the reporting of all wrongdoings committed by digital means through the creation of a cyber-violence reporting platform. This platform could be integrated into an information and pre-filing portal for complaints against all forms of violence, along the lines of the PHAROS system – a platform for harmonising, analysing, cross-referencing and guiding alerts. I can only welcome the announcements made by Mrs. Keeper of the Seals which seem to go in that direction. Finally, with regard to gender-based contempt, we fully support the mechanism proposed in section 4 of the bill, which allows for changes in the law enforcement framework and a clear prohibition, which will lead to changes in attitudes and behaviour, in order, I hope, to put an end to the scourge of gender-based harassment in public spaces. We welcome the adoption in committee of the laws of our amendment to extend the list of enforcement officers, as advocated by one of the recommendations of our report. Thus, any deputy judicial police officer and any officer sworn in under the Transport Code will be able to find this offence. This is important because more officers will be able to identify the offence, the more we will stop these actions. I am absolutely convinced of the effectiveness of these new mechanisms, which tackle very different types of violence but participate in a continuum of violence against which we must fight in a comprehensive manner. The aim here is to lower the social acceptance threshold for these violent gender-based behaviours. The gaze of society must change. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] This bill seems to me to be a tremendous step forward in combating violence against women, regardless of its form. Its full implementation should be ensured in order to put an end to such gender-based and sexual violence in our country and finally to enable the establishment of a society of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u134	Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u135	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mrs Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women has chosen to make violence against women a priority of its work. Following its fact-finding mission on rape, the delegation wished to take up the bill to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. This subject is indeed a priority because, whether verbal, physical or sexual, violence against women is an unacceptable obstacle to their freedom and security, as well as an intolerable violation of their integrity and dignity. However, these violences are still ubiquitous. In France, in 2018, almost all women face daily insults, serious jokes, sexist remarks, whistles or other actions that ultimately aim to lower them. In France, in 2018, one in five women faced sexual harassment in their professional lives, and one in six women suffered at least one sexual assault. In France, every year, some 225,000 women are victims of physical or sexual violence by their spouses or ex-spouses. In France, in 2018, it is estimated that nearly 100,000 adults and 150,000 minors are victims of rape or attempted rape: 685 acts of rape are perpetrated every day, ladies and gentlemen. This dizzying figure actually means that, in our country, in the twenty-first century, every minute that passes, a woman, a man or a child is violated. This unbearable observation requires us to advance our right to eradicate all forms of gender-based and sexual violence from our society. That is the purpose of this bill. That is why, on behalf of the delegation for women's rights, I would like to welcome the progress being made. This text marks a stop point and sends a clear signal: we no longer accept such violence, they will be combated in all their forms and the criminal response will be unwavering. I confess that I have been particularly shocked in recent days by the spread of rumours and erroneous readings of the text. As legislators, we owe our fellow citizens precise explanations and forbid us to give in to any language facilities, depriving us of the real scope and meaning of the texts we are examining. Let us not let the bill say the opposite of what it intends to do! Here I want to restore the reality of the legal facts and to state, without any ambiguity, that rape remains a crime and that no one intends to correct it. That is neither the purpose nor the spirit of this bill. To condemn the perpetrator of a rape, it is necessary to establish the existence of penetration and violence, coercion, threat or surprise. In practice, it is sometimes difficult to demonstrate the existence of these four components. Section 2 of the bill therefore takes this limit into account by specifying the definition of coercion and surprise. These clarifications are a guarantee of increased criminalization of sexual violence against minors. Coercion and surprise will now be characterized, when the acts are committed against a minor under the age of 15, by the fact that the victim does not have sufficient discernment to consent, because of his age. With this precision, it will be easier to convict for rape, since the constituent elements are easier to apprehend. We therefore act on three levels: by consolidating the definition of the elements of rape to facilitate convictions, by increasing the penalties for sexual assault on a minor under the age of 15 and by obliging the assize court to consider a sentence for sexual assault if it did not qualify as rape. These are major advances that clearly show that this bill is firmly on the side of the victims. However, we will not have to stick to that. Indeed, while such violence is destructive to the victims, it is also destructive to our society. When a man, a woman or a child is abused, physically or mentally injured, reached in his very being, it is in reality all our republican principles that are flouted. It's up to us to change attitudes and behaviour by working hard! It is up to us to resolutely and daily promote equality between women and men! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] "The immediate, natural, necessary relationship between man and man is the relationship between man and woman," explained Karl Marx. These pacified, equal to equal and free relationships will not suppress "the miracles that result from the division of human beings into two separate categories: desire, possession, love, dream, adventure", as Simone de Beauvoir recalls in conclusion of the Second Sex. With this bill, we solemnly affirm that, no, we no longer want a society of violence, no, we no longer want a society of aggression, no, we no longer want a society of inequality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u137	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, since we normally have a quarter of an hour of debate before we adjourn the sitting, in the interests of consistency, I propose that the motion for referral to committee which I received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France insoumis group be presented at the next sitting. The continuation of the discussion was therefore postponed to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-14-O1208.u138	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. The meeting is adjourned.
