ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u1	Above all, I would like to express the deep emotion of the national representation in the face of the deadly floods in the south of France and, in particular, in the department of Aude. On our behalf, I am sending a message of solidarity to the victims and their loved ones. I would also like to commend the mobilization of State and municipal services on the ground, as well as the exemplary work of the security and relief forces, to which I know we are all already paying tribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u2	The next item is the discussion of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u4	Mr President, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased to present to you, together with Gérald Darmanin, our 2019 Finance Bill. This is the second time that we have been doing this exercise together...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u5	And maybe the last one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u6	[[Smile]] ...and I hope it's not the last one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u7	Who knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u8	This finance bill – PLF – has a course of French prosperity. Yes, the long-term objective of this budget is the new French prosperity, which must concern all the French and all the territories. It must not be based on ever greater public expenditure but must be the result of the creation of value by the French and our companies. Indeed, the path of prosperity based on public spending leads us all right to increase public debt and taxes, where we want to reduce spending, reduce debt and reduce taxes. This finance bill follows a rule of constancy. We are not going to upset French taxation every four morning: households and entrepreneurs need visibility and stability, the very ones that are part of the trajectory on which we have embarked with Gérald Darmanin. Finally, this finance bill is consistent with our commitment to reinvigorating economic activity by reducing public spending and debt, supporting investment and innovation, lowering taxes and ending the systematic use of increased public spending as it has been done for the past 20 years. In a time of technological disruption and international instability, the control of public spending and support for innovation must be golden rules because they preserve our future, future generations, and allow France to continue to play the leading roles on the European and international scene. To begin with, I would like to recall where we have come from – reminding us of the situation in France over the last ten years. In ten years, the level of public debt has doubled. Between 2007 and 2017, it increased from 64 per cent to over 98 per cent of national wealth. We reverse the trend. In ten years, the level of public expenditure has also increased considerably, since between 2007 and 2017, public expenditure has increased from 52 per cent to more than 55 per cent of GDP. We will reverse this trend. Finally, in ten years, the weight of compulsory levies, the weight of taxes, has steadily increased since it increased between 2007 and 2017 from 42% to 45% of national wealth. Here too, we are going to reverse this trend, which has led to a total amount of compulsory levies of more than EUR 1000 billion – this was underlined by the rapporteur-general – against 670 billion in 2002. It is therefore urgent to put an end to this inflation. That is what we are doing, Mr rapporteur-general, and we are doing even more because we are reversing the trend. I recall the course that has been set and that we will hold, Gérald Darmanin and I: five points of public debt less over the duration of the quinquennium, three points of public expenditure less over the duration of the quinquennium, one point of tax less over the duration of the quinquennium. This is our course and it will be held. I would also point out that from 2008 to 2017, not a French budget did not meet our European commitments. In terms of public expenditure, they have always been above 3%. We can challenge this objective, but we demand it: we have managed to get France out of the excessive government deficit procedure and bring the deficit below 3%. This consistency is the key to restoring public finances. We have a course and this course will be held over the duration of the quinquennium. It is all the more important to do so at a time when international concerns are high and the instability associated with the risk of trade war has never been so high. Today, growth remains strong and at a high level. After exceptional results in 2017, growth rates are forecast at 1.7% in 2018 and 2019. This is solid growth – I would remind you that the average for the last ten years was 0.8%. Economic indicators are also positive, investor confidence is there, French attractiveness figures are the best in ten years, investments are dynamic, especially in industry, which validates our choice to reduce capital taxation in 2017 to finance innovation and investment in industry. However, these results are insufficient in relation to our European partners. On average, we have been doing less well than they have for years in terms of unemployment, growth, public deficit and debt. However, France is not intended to do less well than its European partners, but to do better. We are lagging behind in the digitalisation and robotics of our companies, especially SMEs. We are innovating too little, too late, in a too limited number of sectors. I tell you this with great seriousness: there is an urgent need to bridge this gap in the digitalisation of our SMEs, and in the areas of innovation and investment. If there was a French economic challenge, it would be there: to improve the quality of French products, to have more innovative products, of better quality, with higher added value in all areas of French production. Once again, in terms of technological innovation, we must be ahead, not behind. We need to put in place production processes using state-of-the-art technologies. We must train employees in these new technologies and enable them to master the race for innovation. The French challenge is that of technological disruptions, of our ability not only to control them but also to create them to maintain our technological sovereignty. We must not, tomorrow, have products with all the added value, all the technology, all the innovation being either American or Chinese. We are not condemned to be the technological vassals of the two major world economic powers. We must remain sovereign and, for that, invest, innovate, take the technological race in the lead and maintain a spirit of conquest. We must do so all the more as we evolve in an unstable economic environment, which places risks on all economies. This was recalled at the last IMF meetings: never has the risk of a trade war between China and the United States been so high. Contrary to what some claim, no one will emerge victorious from such a war, which will only be losers: losers in industry, losers in services, job losers, losers in global growth around the world. Beyond this risk of trade war, there are also many uncertainties in the euro area. I would like to point out that all members of the euro area are united: what is happening in one Member State affects all other Member States. What is decided in Paris, Rome, Luxembourg, Berlin or Madrid now has an impact on all the other capitals, because we have chosen it sovereignly. It is we who have decided sovereignly to link our destiny around this common currency, the first European political achievement in decades. It imposes rules and duties on us. France respects these rules and expects its partners to do the same, because we are convinced that the common currency gives us more strength and more guarantees. In the Eurozone, lonely adventures will not take us anywhere. On the contrary, the collective adventure, which will enable us to move towards banking union, towards a common budget for the euro area, will guarantee us a solid, stable currency capable of competing with the dollar, capable of trading freely with all the states on the planet and thus guaranteeing our long-term prosperity. This is the choice we make with the President of the Republic: a strengthening of the euro area in the service of European independence and sovereignty. More reason to consolidate our situation, to continue consistently the restoration of public finances around three clear and strong choices. The first is work. The work has to pay, and the work will pay in France. The abolition of unemployment insurance and health insurance contributions, the abolition of the social plan on self-employment for all enterprises with less than 250 employees, the abolition of overtime contributions will ensure that all French employees will be the big winners of our tax transformations. The work will pay and all those who are now employed in France will see that their net salary, at the bottom of their payroll, will increase at the end of the month. The second choice is investment. The key to our success tomorrow, I repeat, is innovation. In order to innovate, to scale up, to export, to create jobs, to have a solid economic fabric in all territories, it is essential that the cost of capital and taxation be lower – that is what we are doing – and that specific measures be taken: it is the meaning of over-amortization on robots or digitalisation, so that, in the next two years, all our SMEs can catch up in this field. Our third key choice is that of the environment and the fight against global warming, each of which is increasingly tragically measuring the consequences on our territory and beyond. French prosperity can only be based on a sustainable model and I hope that public companies will be exemplary in this respect. In the coming months, I will make proposals to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to ensure that companies in which the state has a stake have high environmental ambitions and are exemplary. I hope that the Ministry of Economy will not suffer from climate change, but that it will bring new and bold solutions, through more innovation, more exemplaryness and taxation more adapted to this challenge. The ecological challenge requires courageous but necessary choices in environmental taxation, including the continuation of the upward trajectory of the domestic consumption tax on energy products – TICEP. But we would be critical if we made these decisions without accompanying them with measures to support the households that are most affected by these tax developments. That is why we will, at the same time, amplify our support for the ecological transition. In this finance bill, we extend, together with Gérald Darmanin, the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – whose cost amounts to 1.5 billion euros and which in 2016 benefited more than 1174,000 households. We are also extending the zero-rate eco-loan and making it radically easier for more families to benefit. The hugely successful conversion premium for clean vehicles will cost €330 million in 2018 for 260,000 conversions. We will continue this effort in 2019, in addition to the €6,000 bonus for electric vehicles. The energy check, which benefits 4 million households, will be upgraded: its average amount will increase from 150 to 200 euros. Finally, with regard to hydrofluorocarbons – HFCs – which are responsible for much of the greenhouse gases, the Government is open to proposals from parliamentarians. The restoration of public finances also requires efforts on the part of everyone. We asked households in 2018, by differentiating and by achieving in two stages the reduction of the wage contributions promised by the President of the Republic. In the budget for 2019, we will ask for an effort from companies, by postponing the four-point reduction of employers' contributions on salaries at SMIC level to October 1 and by increasing the rate of the fifth advance payment for companies whose turnover exceeds 250 million euros. Thanks to these efforts, all our commitments will be kept and France's public deficit will be 1.9% in 2019. Adding to this the exceptional measure of transforming the employment competitiveness tax credit – CICE – into a 0.9% reduction in expenses, the total public deficit is 2.8%. But it seems to me that the figure to be retained and the figure of 1.9%, excluding the CICE. The public debt will be 98.6% at the end of 2019. This figure is obviously not satisfactory, but it is the result of our sincere effort to take account of SNCF Réseau's debt. I am convinced that this effort to reduce public debt must be pursued vigorously and that all available resources must be used. That is why the divestitures of assets, provided for in the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises – PACTE – will participate in the debt-debt of the State, as I indicated during the examination of this text. As far as compulsory levies are concerned, they will rise from 45% to just over 44.2% in 2019 and I confirm that the target of a reduction of one point in compulsory levies over the duration of the quinquennium will be achieved. If there are room for manoeuvre, we will use them to further reduce production taxes, as the Prime Minister committed himself a few days ago. Finally, we are going to start the European tax convergence, which was validated by the Meseberg agreement, by adjusting the tax integration regime for corporate tax, by transposing the ATAD directive on tax evasion – Anti-tax avoidance directive – and by bringing ourselves into line with the OECD rules on patent taxation. We have had lengthy discussions with the rapporteur-general and the members of the Committee on Finance on this issue. We are well aware that this reform of patent taxation reduces the advantage offered to companies generating income from their patents filed in France. However, we want to respect international rules and multipolarity, which we also defend. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr rapporteur-general, for the developments you have proposed, which have been adopted by the Committee on Finance and which, in my view, respond to the questions and concerns of many companies. Your proposal, which we will obviously support, to lower the rate from 15 to 10 per cent, will help mitigate the impact of this measure. We will also support your proposal to remedy the exclusion of the non-patented patentable from the scope of the new regime. You have targeted here, Mr rapporteur-general, one of the major difficulties of the new regime. Our services have worked in the meantime, in conjunction with the National Institute of Industrial Property and the OECD, on a provision that will be presented by the Government and which, I hope, will meet your expectations and concerns that you have rightly expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u10	Beyond budgetary virtue, our ambition is first and foremost, I repeat, to build the future of our country. And my conviction is that there is no sustainable growth without well-kept public finances. We cannot build a country's prosperity on ever more debt, ever more public spending, ever more tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u11	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u12	We tried to believe it for decades, but this model failed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u13	Oh oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u14	We need to build a new model, a model based on French prosperity, the success of our businesses, competitiveness and innovation. That is the meaning of this finance bill, and that was already the meaning of the Business Growth and Transformation Bill, which you passed by a large majority a few days ago. This bill is intended to pass on, develop and free our businesses. Building the future is also, beyond companies, transforming the way the state, the public power, acts on the economy. That is why we have embarked, in the PACTE law, on a fundamental transformation of the chambers of commerce and industry – CCI. I have had the opportunity to present this project to all ICC presidents. Every time I travel, I meet with the chamber presidents to explain the meaning of this transformation. I was, for example, a few days ago in the Morbihan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u15	A very nice department!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u16	Morbihan is indeed a beautiful department, dear Gilles Lurton. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This reform must take place in dialogue and consultation. In this respect, I would like to thank Members Stella Dupont and Valérie Oppelt for the remarkable work they have done on this subject. This transformation, the presidents of the chambers of commerce and industry are waiting for it, because they prefer to have a clear course rather than budget cuts year after year, which they do not know where they will lead them. We have therefore planned a profound transformation of the KICs, which will no longer go exclusively through the tax affected, but through benefits that will be financed for businesses. We have also decided, together with your rapporteur-general, to introduce into this finance bill a minimum threshold of consular activity, which will help to amortise the tax cut for the KICs in the most rural territories, because they are the most fragile, they are the most useful and they are the ones who need our support most. This amendment, which will be defended by the rapporteur-general, will receive a favourable opinion from the Government. We will also allow chambers of commerce and industry to recruit agents under contract under private law, and we will provide for the termination of the status of KIC agents, to give them more managerial flexibility. Finally, this autumn we will be negotiating a target and performance contract that will link the chambers of commerce and industry to the state and give them visibility for the next few years, since this contract will define their tasks, the mechanisms for distributing the affected tax, a system of equalization that is fairer and more efficient than the one that exists today and the criteria on which to assess the performance of the chambers. In conclusion, you will allow me to make a projection for a few decades and to stress once again the absolute need for our country to develop investment in innovation and new technologies. If we plan in a few decades then, around 2050, what do we see? We see a planet economically dominated by China, the United States and some Asian countries. We see an accelerated European relegation, and more marked for some states than for others. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] But if we are able to build our technological sovereignty, to transform in depth our social model, our public finance model and our economic model, France can remain one of the great economic nations that counts in Europe. It can play the leading roles on the economic level, in Europe and on the international stage, if we are aware that transformations are fast going, that the world is not waiting for us, and that technological disruptions require that we have well-kept public finances in order to provide the necessary resources for investment, for tomorrow and for future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u17	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u18	[[Smile]] Mr President, Mr Bruno Le Maire, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to what the Minister for the Economy has excellently outlined, particularly with regard to corporate taxation and the macro-economic framework within which this finance bill is based. First of all, I am very pleased to introduce myself to you again to open this period of the budget, which will see us spend our days and nights together looking at the finance bill and the social security financing bill, until the end of December. I look forward to it and see from your mines that you share my happiness. We have introduced the Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – for 2019, together with Mrs Agnès Buzyn, in the Council of Ministers. The budget documents that we are presenting to the nation's representatives show the coherence of the policy we have been conducting since last year, since the majority passed the Public Finance Programming Act as well as the Finance Bill and the Social Security Financing Bill for 2018. The budget that we submit to you is first of all a budget for the commitments that have been made. It is then a budget which, if I may say so, strengthens the purchasing power of those who work, while protecting the most vulnerable. Finally, with the draft law on the financing of social security, it is a project that allows investment for the future. First of all, it is a budget for the commitments that have been made, if we refer to the law on public finance programming and to the main themes that the Government wanted to address, both in the Committee on Finance and in the first exchanges that it may have had with you, the rapporteur-general, as well as with you, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, and with each of the political groups, following in particular last year's Court of Auditors' report, which stressed the insinicity – that is the term that the Court used – of the budget that we inherited when we came to the responsibilities. I would first like to say to the national representative that the Government has kept its promise to present sincere accounts and that it has not cheated in any way on the budget entries it has presented to the opposition as well as to the majority. It is so true that the First President of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly, the Senate, as well as various observers – still a great economic newspaper this morning – have found that the Government, for the first time in the history of the budgetary Republic, if you will allow me this expression, will not present decrees in advance. It will also present a reduced collective budget to its simplest expression, without any tax articles and without any profound change in our democratic functioning. Indeed, it is the representatives of the nation who agree not only to levy the tax, but to grant budgetary appropriations. The failure to present an advance order and to present a management that respects the work of parliamentarians, both the opposition and the majority, is proof that we have indeed "syncized" the budget documents. We may have differences, sometimes strong, on the content of these budget entries and on the public policies followed, but the fact is that we can present you with a second budget that is perfectly sincere, which does not provide for any underestimation. I believe that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance himself acknowledged this. Moreover, we continue in this direction, since, together with Bruno Le Maire, at the request of the Prime Minister, we have even sanded our debt. We are the first Government to have integrated the real public debt that we all know, that of SNCF, and we can now state before the national representation that both budgetary appropriations and revenue or debt are operating in truth. It is on the basis of real figures that national representation will be able to debate. Moreover, for the first time in a decade, the French economy will grow by more than 1.5% over three consecutive years. Over the same period, the government deficit will have been below 3% of GDP, which had not happened in 20 years. As for public expenditure, it will have been less than 1% two years in a row, or even three years if we continue along this path. After a zero increase in 2018, the volume growth in public expenditure is expected to remain moderate in 2019, at 0.6% and slightly less the following year, which is unprecedented. We should, moreover, return 600 million in appropriations when inflation is high, which reflects the attention that the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Public Action and Accounts pay to the nation's accounts, even when voted by Parliament. We have changed our method to strengthen the sincerity of the budget. We decided not to make an order-in-council in advance, but also to reduce the reserve rate for departmental appropriations to 3%. Moreover, apart from the setting aside of the appropriations of the Court of Auditors, out of politeness towards this noble institution, and those assigned to live performances, no thaw has been granted to the ministries. I will be able to say to parliamentarians that we have made the directors of administration and ministers accountable. The appropriations put in reserve are certainly smaller, but in return there will be no freeze. We will continue this work, which may lead us to contract with a number of public operators or central administrations to promote pluriannuality. In order to improve the legibility of our taxation, we have accepted Mr Laurent Saint-Martin's request to remove small taxes – twenty-two will be in total and we will proceed in two times. This finance bill proposes to put an end to 17 small taxes, amounting to EUR 137 million. A small tax will be abolished by decree because it is not covered by the law. Three will be merged into one. A final one should be accepted during the parliamentary debate. We thus echo a request from the majority, but we know that the opposition was equally interested in it. Finally, we have favoured horizontality over verticality, Mr rapporteur-general, particularly in our relations with local and regional authorities. More than 70% of local authorities have committed themselves to financial contracting with the state – the famous 322. In fact, this process has borne fruit, including constitutional ones, while some of you were explaining to us that the contract was contrary to article 72 of the Constitution. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that no important provision has been censored by the Constitutional Council of all the texts we have presented with Bruno Le Maire. It is a sign of the quality of parliamentary work, in line with that, I hope, of the work of the Government, and I congratulate you, Mr General. In any event, the contractual arrangements with local and regional authorities should be assessed in 2020, when it is renewed, to be improved or relaxed if necessary. I'm telling Mr. Cazeneuve in particular. The local authorities are not the forgotten ones of this budget since, so few tax provisions concern them, with the exception of the TGAP – tax on polluting activities – on waste, following the road map for the circular economy presented by Brune Poirson and Nicolas Hulot, or the TEOM – tax on the removal of household waste – the bulk of the questions of local taxation are to be referred to the specific finance bill that I will present with Mr Dussopt in the first half of this year. It will probably be presented to the Council of State at the end of December or the beginning of January and then to the Council of Ministers in January and to the Senate or the National Assembly in the first quarter of next year. It is therefore with this Ariane thread that I will invite parliamentarians to refer most of their questions relating to local taxation to this specific bill, which will probably occupy us for several days and nights. It did not seem useful to us to increase the financial bill for 2019. Similarly, allocations to local authorities are maintained and even slightly increased. After being sincere about the proportion of VAT that we owe to the regions, following a commitment by Manuel Valls, which translates into 700 million additional revenue for the regions, we will be able to discuss with interested parliamentarians these allocations, which are still increasing slightly. In particular, the allocation of urban solidarity and the allocation of rural solidarity are changing favourably, as was already the case last year. These provisions are expected to satisfy a large part of the House. Second point: this budget rewards work – a work that pays off. This finance bill thus implements the fiscal component of the PACTE law, as does the social security financing bill. The abolitions of wage contributions go on a full plan, and the activity premium increases according to the timetable voted by Parliament. Finally, overtime is exempt from social security contributions. This represents a purchase power gain of 11% over an additional hour, which is usually made by a worker or employee earning less than 1500 euros per month and under 45 years of age. I know that the rapporteur-general does not appreciate this, but on the substance he agrees with me. This "desocialisation" of overtime – a rather difficult term that should not be used too often – coupled with the abolition of contributions strengthens purchasing power even more than the measures already adopted in 2007 in the TEPA law – labour, employment and purchasing power. In fact, the de-socialisation - de-socialisation of the time - is less for workers and employees than the abolition of social contributions on their wages, accompanied by the de-socialisation of overtime. We will have an opportunity to discuss this during the Social Security Financing Bill. We also encourage hiring by transforming the CICE into a reduction in social security contributions. This is a matter that falls within the scope of the Social Security Financing Bill, and I am not looking into it. I do not go back to the taxation aspect of the CAPTE Act. As for the Skills Investment Plan – ICP – which is a first achievement here, we will discuss it at more length when we discuss the subject of public spending. We are accompanying the increase in social minimums in the timetable desired by the legislator, in line with the promises of the President of the Republic, whether it is an increase in the solidarity allowance for the elderly, an allowance for adults with disabilities or an activity bonus. Benefits targeted at the most vulnerable will be revalued. Active solidarity income will be adjusted on the basis of inflation. This bill also provides for a moderate increase in replacement income, in return for the reduction of taxation in the second tranche of the housing tax. We'll get back to it. Most importantly, this bill translates into fairer taxation because it is more contemporary. I am thinking in particular of the contemporaneity of social benefits, in particular APLs – personalized housing subsidies – but also tax at source. Mr. Le Fur wants us to talk about it tonight, or tomorrow. It'll be my pleasure. I heard the criticisms, on this issue of work, and I had fun studying the opposition's proposals – many and not always consistent. Mr Mélenchon presented a draft counter-budget this morning. The effort is commendable in democracy, and it deserves to be discussed. He proposes not to go into the problem of deficits and not to place too much emphasis on debt – since it is with billions of dollars that he proposes to increase public spending. I assume that amendments have been tabled to translate these proposals, and we will then discuss them, even if it goes without saying that this is not the political orientation we have favoured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u19	I thought he'd come.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u20	On the part of the Republicans, I was surprised not to find the 20% increase in the SMIC, which was yet an antinist of a number of personalities in this group. I note that President Wauquiez will not have retained him. I have noted three measures to reduce public spending by $20 billion – even if the account is not entirely there. You propose to work more to earn less – 39 hours paid 35 for public servants. We have not retained this possibility, which is probably part of our political difference. You are still proposing to reduce social benefits, by merging them into a single benefit equivalent to 75% of the SMIC...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u21	Without allowances for disabled people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u22	And apart from family allowances, I guess, which ends up doing little... But that is the opposite of what our majority is doing, since we are increasing certain benefits. And all this for a 900 million euro report... But this decline in social benefits to 75% of SMIC probably goes hand in hand with the increase in the same SMIC by 20%, as proposed by Mr Peltier and Mrs Pecresse. In the end, I learned above all from your political group that it would be possible to contribute socially without receiving social benefits, especially when you are a foreigner. It's pretty far from what I thought I knew when I was part of it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, I do not find in your proposals the 20 billion announced reductions in public spending. I have even read a very interesting amendment from the Republican Group which aims to increase the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. On the contrary, we propose to freeze it, in exchange for the reduction in public expenditure, which we ask and which you refute. I even understand that, like last year on certain matters relating to assisted contracts or housing policy, you are not in favour of the reform of the public audiovisual sector. Yet we are only asking for a saving of 200 million euros! That's a little surprising.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u23	You're in bad faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u24	Not at all. I also noticed that you wanted to remove both the property tax and the housing tax. We'll talk about it again. I'm going back to the finance bill. We wish to strengthen the appropriations allocated to the security of the French, since the appropriations allocated to the functions of the Regalian are increasing by 2.4 billion, those allocated to the budget of the armies by 1.7 billion, those of the Ministry of the Interior by 400 million and those of the Ministry of Justice by 300 million, in accordance with the law of programming for justice. These are very large increases for the budgets of the armies and the Ministry of the Interior. This budget also invests in the future. We are making an unprecedented increase in public investment, doubled compared to the previous quinquennium. Budgets dedicated to ecological transition and mobility are increasing by 1 billion, in line with the Mobility Act that you will soon be debating. In addition, the budget for national education and higher education is increasing by 1.3 billion, representing the largest increase in this finance bill. It is indeed necessary to face up to an additional 40,000 students. Finally, we are preparing the public service of tomorrow, aware that it must not remain frozen in a conservative immobilime but must accompany the new demands of the population, in order to face the territorial rupture but also the new technologies. We are reducing the size of the state, with 4200 public officials down – but I am talking in net numbers: this is a difference between increases in the number of police officers and gendarmes, and reductions. We will consider changing the contribution to public audiovisual as part of the major audiovisual reform that we will present to you. The conclusions of the overseas states-general have been translated into the fiscal and budgetary provisions that we present to you. There will be a major reform of agricultural taxation. In particular, the TO-DE – casual worker – job seeker – will be corrected during the review of the PLFSS. The tax and social collection networks will be unified, and I would like to take this opportunity to commend the parliamentarians who have considered this measure. We will have the opportunity to come back to this, and to address many other issues, including the transformation of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. That is, therefore, this sincere budget, which respects the commitments we have made. It strengthens the purchasing power of the French and protects the most vulnerable. He's investing to prepare for the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am proud to present to you, together with Bruno Le Maire, this year II budget of the quinquennium of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u25	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u26	Mr President, Ministers, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, this draft finance bill is presented in a favourable context. Our public accounts are getting better. France came out of the excessive deficit procedure, while many still doubted it here a year ago. The tax programme carried by this majority is rising in power. In October, net wages of private sector assets will increase as a result of the shift in social contributions to the CSG. Similarly, in October, households will earn $3.2 billion in the first phase of the removal of the housing tax. In short, it is not only the autumn budget that begins, it is also the purchasing power season. In fact, INSEE did not make a mistake, since it foresees an acceleration of growth in the second half of the year. Fiscal policy since the beginning of the legislature bears its first fruit. The results are there and are even intended to amplify. The finance bill is particularly dense, with eighty-six articles. I welcome, Ministers, the efforts of your services to respond to my various questionnaires, although there is still room for progress in order to obtain your answers in time enough to be exploited as they would deserve, particularly in my report. In total, we adopted in committee 116 amendments out of the 864 that were defended. If I subtract the same, the sub-amendments and the drafting, the number of amendments adopted is 63. I would add that they come from all groups. This finance bill contains few measures of strong fiscal performance. The main is the amendment to Article 15 of the rules for calculating the fifth advance payment of corporate tax for the largest companies, which will bring in EUR 1.5 billion to the State budget in 2019. I fully support this measure. I would remind you that this is not a tax increase but a cash flow measure. I have also noted with perplexity the tabling of deletion amendments by those who, when they were the majority in this House, created the fifth instalment and subsequently continued to strengthen it. Of course, I hear the argument about the cash flow of companies, but if there is a year for which this argument should not be used, it is 2019! Companies will benefit from an unprecedented cash flow effect of more than 20 billion euros, thanks to the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in contributions. At the same time, last year's drop in the corporate tax rate continues. In these circumstances, the reinforcement of the fifth advance payment appears to be legitimate. I would also like to give a favourable opinion on the amendment tabled by Émilie Cariou and Bénédicte Peyrol in order to perpetuate it. 2019 will also be marked by the introduction of the source levy. Article 3 accompanies the implementation of this reform of the recovery of income tax by an adjustment and an expansion of the deposit on credits and tax reductions to be paid to the French from January onwards. The Government has taken all necessary steps to allow for the entry into force of the source levy under optimal conditions. I salute, Ministers, your personal commitment to this matter. The committee adopted an amendment, on which, however, I gave an unfavorable opinion, extending the scope of the deposit to the tax credit for organic farming. We have also adopted two other amendments to better accompany the implementation of this reform: one by Véronique Louwagie and Marie-Christine Dalloz, which aim to ensure that the calculation of the rate is communicated to the taxpayer, and another by Jean-Paul Dufrègne, which foresees that, on an experimental basis, public service houses in certain departments will assist taxpayers. Article 3 also postpones the levy at source for individual employers by one year, pending the establishment of a dedicated platform. Their employees will therefore pay down payments in 2019 and regularize their situation in 2020. Some will benefit from a legal spread of the payment of this regularization. For the others, I have had an amendment adopted to explicitly include in the text an option allowing the same spread. The finance bill contains an important tax component from the Overseas Blue Book, with the challenge of inefficient tax benefits, as well as the strengthening and extension of tax aid. Overseas tax aid will thus be simplified, better targeted and more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u27	That's not what they say there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u28	For example, Article 6 creates free zones for new generation activity – ZFANG. I have had an amendment adopted so that this new system can be evaluated in 2020. We have also adopted an amendment by Maina Sage to extend tax aid to cruise ships, and an amendment by Olivier Serva to extend the lease period required to qualify for investment tax aid. This draft finance law is also the one of continuing the greening of taxation, including the implementation of the road map for a 100 per cent circular economy. Our committee has strengthened the greening of our taxes. In fact, it adopted two amendments to strengthen Article 7, which aims to encourage the local authorities to introduce the incentive share of the household waste collection tax. The first, defended by Christine Pires Beaune, Jean-René Cazeneuve, Olivier Gaillard and Michel Castellani, allows a 15% difference between tax revenues and eligible expenses. The second, which was presented to us by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, extends to five years, instead of three, the reduction in the costs levied by the Directorate-General for Public Finance when the incentive share of the household waste tax is implemented. The committee also adopted amendments on an additional article for ecological purposes, such as the removal of tax exemptions on company vehicles and pick-up trucks, an amendment supported by Éric Coquerel and the Committee on Sustainable Development, the inclusion of solar thermal energy in the determination of the 50% threshold for the application of the reduced rate of VAT to 5.5%, and the exclusion of palm oil from the base of incorporation into biofuel, an amendment tabled by Bruno Millienne in particular. We also adopted, in Article 8 on the waste component of the general tax on polluting activities, an amendment tabled by Jean-Paul Mattei, aimed at exempting the waste transported from one closed landfill to another. In fact, in practice, it is often the territorial authorities which bear the payment of the tax in connection with this transfer, when the operator of the landfill no longer exists. This finance bill is also an important step in rationalizing our taxation, with an important program to remove small taxes and tax expenditures that are inefficient in sections 9 and 11. Admittedly, we have adopted an amendment, defended in particular by Jean-Pierre Vigier, Anne-Laurence Petel, Valérie Lacroute, François Pupponi and Dominique David, aimed at maintaining the tax expenditure in favour of cooperative societies of collective interest, as well as another amendment, at the initiative of Philippe Gomès and Max Mathiasin, aimed at extending the tax reduction in favour of social housing to expenditure on renovation. At the same time, however, we have adopted many amendments that demonstrate Parliament's readiness to support the Government in its programme to streamline our tax system. For example, our committee has adopted six amendments to extend the list of deleted taxes. At the initiative of Daniel Labaronne, we adopted the removal of the river barrier charge, and the removal of registration fees on transfers of tangible property for consideration. At the initiative of Lise Magnier, we propose the abolition of two small taxes adopted last year, the tax on the search for liquid hydrocarbons and the tax on the search for geothermal sites. At the initiative of Amélie de Montchalin, we adopted the deletion of the contribution on private security activities. At the initiative of Charles de Courson, we reviewed the scope of the tax payable by the animal sector to the Fatty Body Institute. I also adopted an amendment to abolish a tax expenditure whose cost per beneficiary seemed to me abnormally low, to the extent that I doubted its efficiency – 2.52 euros. We also adopted an amendment by François Jolivet aimed at removing the exemption for the rental of rooms from the main residence and an amendment by Jean-Félix Acquaviva to exclude the rental of tourist furniture from the investment tax credit in Corsica. This PLF also usually contains several articles that bring it into line with European law. This is the subject of Article 12, which reforms the tax integration regime. This article puts an end to several neutralisations of intra-group transactions, including that of the taxable share in the context of the "Copé niche". It provides, as compensation, for the rate of the taxable share to be reduced from 12 % to 5 %. This compliance with European law, however, is relatively expensive for public finances, since you are worth 330 million euros. That is why I have proposed an amendment, which has been adopted by the committee, to limit this reduction to fiscally integrated groups and similar situations. This amendment could bring up to EUR 390 million in relation to the PLF, which would, for example, allow the Minister to guarantee the continuation of the TO-DE system, a device that is dear to you, since you have created it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u29	Indeed, I created it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u30	We will discuss this again, Minister, as part of the Social Security Financing Bill. In addition, Article 13 brings our system of limiting the deductibility of financial charges into line with European law. I have had two amendments adopted to exclude the interests of public infrastructure projects from limiting the deductibility of financial charges and to reintroduce the safeguard clause for overcapitalised companies. I turn to Article 14, which proposes to reform the patent system. I understand the Government's willingness to implement the OECD recommendations, in order to show France's example in the fight against the erosion of tax bases, known as BEPS – Base erosion and profit shocking. However, I believe that we must also preserve one of the specificities of our tax system, which is attractive in terms of innovation and research, especially since our concern for exemplaryness is not always fully shared by our partners. I have proposed four amendments to this effect, which have been adopted by the committee. To ensure partial compensation for the effects of the reduction in tax base induced by the OECD's nexus approach, we considered it appropriate to reduce the tax rate to 10%, starting in 2019 – I thank you, Minister, for your acceptance in this forum. Similarly, we propose to extend this taxation regime to non-patentable patentable inventions. The purpose of two amendments is to regulate the fine in the event of failure to comply with the documentary obligation and to clarify the scope of the obligation. At the initiative of several colleagues, including Jean-Noël Barrot, we also adopted an amendment to extend this tax regime to software that generated revenues before January 1, 2019. In addition, this finance bill implements the fiscal component of the PACTE bill, in particular the one relating to the transmission of enterprises. Article 16 makes a renovation of the Dutreil Pact, which allows for an exemption of 75 % from the base of the donation or inheritance rights relating to the transmission of an undertaking. We have adopted two amendments to simplify the so-called "deemed acquired" regime and to add public exchange offers in cases of divestitures of securities that do not call into question the exemption. I have also passed an amendment that lowers the company's holding thresholds to benefit from the Dutreil Pact. The existence of double voting rights should be better taken into account. I come to an essential part of this PLF, the modernisation of agricultural taxation. Section 18 creates a precautionary savings deduction – DEP – whose operation will be much more flexible than the current hazard deductions – CCA – and investment deductions – IPRs. Assumptions of use of the PED are extremely varied, leaving the operator responsible for the appropriateness of its use. Deductions are capped on a progressive basis based on profit. Our colleague Marc Le Fur, who chaired an information mission on agricultural taxation under the previous legislature, acknowledged in committee that this article was "excellent". Together with other colleagues, including Vincent Descoeur, Pierre Cordier and Thibault Bazin, he presented and had adopted an amendment, on which I have, I acknowledge, issued an unfavourable opinion, which removes the cap on four GAEC partners – joint farming groups – for the multiplication of the ceilings of the new DEP. On the other hand, I gave an opinion in favour of an amendment by Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas which removes the 50% cap on savings that can be made in stock form. Similarly, we have adopted an amendment, tabled in particular by Hervé Pellois, to freeze the value of farmers' stocks, or an amendment by Sereine Mauborgne to exempt them from the payment of certain compensation for clearing. The committee also adopted other amendments on additional articles on various subjects: the permanent exemption of Olympic medallists' bonuses, supported by Perrine Goulet, which put an end to an injustice between summer and winter Olympic medallists; capping of the amount of fees when granting a first residence permit, supported by Stella Dupont; the exemption from transfer rights on donations and bequests received by all foundations and associations recognized as being of public utility, supported by Sarah El Haïry; the creation of a floor and ceiling for the reduction of corporate tax on sponsorship; an extension of the perimeter of the urban basins to energize certain neighbouring communes, supported by Charlotte Lecocq; taking into account audiovisual series for the field of deductible donations – amendment by the chairman of the Eric Woerth commission; the extension of opportunities for local and regional authorities to benefit from sponsorship, supported by Christophe Blanchet; the gradual end of the allowance for old age of the annual duty on francization of ships, supported in particular by Said Ahamada and Jimmy Pahun; Finally, the sustainability of the reduced rate of VAT at 5.5% on HIV self-tests, supported by Fabien Roussel. I have referred to the main amendments that we have adopted in committee on the tax sections of the first part of this finance bill. In the second part, we will discuss various other measures, including the reform of the exit tax, on which we will probably have proposals to make to you. Finally, with regard to the budget articles, we adopted in Article 23 an amendment aimed at abolishing the reduction of the DCRTP – an allocation to compensate for the reform of the professional tax – for the municipalities in 2018, and three amendments to Article 29 concerning the taxes allocated to public service bodies: one from Benoit Simian, which aims to maintain the tax for control costs paid to the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities; Another one that defines the foundation put in place to secure the financing needs of hyper-rural KICs – you said you were in favour of it in your intervention, Minister; and one that adjusts the additional tax rate to the CFE – business property assessment – in connection with the decrease in the allocation limit to KICs. Finally, I have adopted an amendment to Article 32 to remind the Commission that the compensation paid by the authorities to SNCF for the operation of the territory's equilibrium trains is not appropriate when the trains have not been operated. This seems obvious to me, but in the light of the practices, I thought it was useful to clarify it in the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have already worked hard to enrich this finance bill for 2019. We will continue this work in session in a dialogue that will, I am convinced, be always constructive with the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u31	These are enumerations that remind us of the lists at the Prévert, or even the marine weather. It is often the melody of things that generates poetry... I leave the Presidency to welcome the President of the Republic of Korea on your behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u32	[[At 17.00, Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u33	Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u34	Madam President, ministers, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law for the 2019 fiscal year is the budgetary translation of the strong commitments made by the Government, which are entirely focused on investment, purchasing power and a greater sharing of the fruits of renewed growth. It is also faithful to the unprecedented environmental commitments made by the Government, in the service of an ecological and solidarity-based transition to which the resources allocated are unprecedented. Last year, on the occasion of the first five-year budget, I indicated that the end of the budget for the environment had rung. This second budget of the quinquennium holds this promise all the more as it increases again the appropriations of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and its operators by 3.1%, an increase of 1 billion euros and a total of 34.2 billion for 2019 alone. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, whose opinion I have the honour to report on this draft finance bill, welcomes this budgetary effort in line with the challenges of ecological and solidarity transition and the ambitious climate objectives that we are facing. Articles 7, 8, 19, 32 and 33, which have been referred to our committee, demonstrate the government's willingness to support virtuous behaviour, but also to penalise the most polluting products and practices, in particular through the establishment of a fair and incentive environmental tax system. They also strengthen the resources allocated to renewable energy and clean mobility. In view of the findings of several years ago on the amount of waste we generate, and in the wake of the road map for the circular economy, it was necessary to introduce a tax system capable of inciting the most virtuous behaviour. This is nothing less than what is proposed in section 7 of this finance bill, which fundamentally reshapes the system of the tax on the removal of household waste – TEOM – by providing for the generalization of the implementation of the incentive share of this tax by local authorities. As a reminder, the tax on the removal of household refuse – TEOMI –, as the incentive share of TEOM is called, allows the amount of waste generated to be taken into account in the amount of the tax, which in part decorates it with the amount of the property tax, hence with the rental value of the property. This new tax mechanism will provide communities as well as taxpayers with an appropriate framework for the introduction of the incentive share, consistent with the polluter pays principle. There is no doubt that the TEOMI will contribute to the reduction of the 600 kilos of waste generated each year by each of our fellow citizens, two thirds of which remain non-recyclable. However, the introduction of this more virtuous system is not without financial consequences for our communities; it therefore calls for support and support from the State. Progressivity and accompaniment will be the prerequisites for the success of this transition. I am therefore pleased that the Finance Committee has sent the signal expected by the local authorities by adopting my amendment to extend to five years the period during which the management fees levied by the State under the TEOMI will be reduced. Waste management in our country still leads to ubiquitous situations, where recycling costs more than landfilling or incineration. It is indeed the correction of this anomaly proposed by Article 8, through the increase of the waste component of the general tax on polluting activities – TGAP. This new trajectory will restore the hierarchy of waste treatment by prioritising recycling operations to storage or incineration operations. However, there is a need to enhance the value of facilities that support the circular economy and a more sustainable world. That is why our committee will propose to you the introduction of a 50% reduction in TGAP-waste in favour of efficient sorting centres, in order to make use of the waste currently being refused sorting. Furthermore, we welcome the adoption by the Finance Committee of our amendment to end the inclusion of palm oil in the list of biofuels eligible for the reduction of the additional levy rate in the TGAP. Initiated by my colleague Vincent Thiébaut, this amendment will certainly help to combat the scourge of imported deforestation. However, while the strengthening of TGAP-waste is welcome, it is not always at the end of the process. There is an urgent need to address waste throughout its entire life cycle, both upstream and downstream. Our communities and taxpayers cannot be the only ones to bear the cost of collecting, managing and recycling waste. Waste is first and foremost a product, and good waste is first and foremost a waste that does not exist. It is time to empower economic actors and to act on the design and manufacture of the products themselves. This is why you will be proposed to use these economic actors to ensure that companies producing non-recyclable waste are also the driving force behind the ecological transition. In order to address this problem and without creating a tax, we will propose an amendment to introduce an eco-contribution on non-recyclable manufactured products, in line with the ambitions of the circular economy roadmap and the spirit of section 8 of this finance bill. This 2019 budget also marks the end of the support for the most polluting energies, with the elimination of the reduced tariffs of ICTPE on non-road diesel, provided for in Article 19 of the PLF. The removal of reduced tariffs on non-road fuels is a choice we take, as it will increase the incentive for players to turn away from fossil fuels to cleaner energy. While Article 19 has implications for a number of sectors, including the BTP, the removal of this exemption is in line with the ambitious environmental objectives that our country and the international community have set themselves. In the perfect spirit of Article 19, we hope that the end of this reduced tariff will be followed by the removal of other tax niches that are unfavourable to our environment. It is this sense that we propose the removal of the TICEP exemption on private sea passenger transport, especially on cruise ships, which emit as many fine particles as a million cars. At the same time, on behalf of my committee, I would like to propose that the public transport of passengers by inland waterway should be exempted from TICEP in order to restore modal equity in public passenger transport, since rail is already exempt. Our commission will also offer you an additional depreciation for light commercial vehicles with clean alternative fuels such as bio-methane, electricity or ED 95 fuel, so that the fiscal levers of the energy transition also benefit vehicles of 2.6 to 3.5 tonnes. This budget makes the choice of an increase in carbon taxes, and we do so because this path is indispensable. Our committee will propose that you set up a tax redistribution mechanism to help the poorest households, especially in rural areas, invest in reducing their energy consumption, whether in mobility or housing. Again with regard to clean and sustainable mobility, I would propose that you devote daily public transport services to the status of essential public services, by applying a reduced VAT rate of 5.5%. This consecration will make it possible to restore the mobility of everyday life to its proper place – we are working on it – while giving new financial room for manoeuvre to the organising authorities of transport or mobility, in accordance with the future law of orientation of mobilitys. Article 32 adjusts the amounts of revenue allocated to trust accounts. For example, the CAS "National passenger-contracted transport services", which allows to balance the financing of the territory's balancing trains, sees the revenue affected by the tax due by the motorway concession companies reduced from 141 million euros to 117 million euros. However, this amount is sufficient to finance the planned expenditure for the financial year 2019. Article 32 also increases the resources devoted to renewable energy through the "Energy Transition" CAS, which sees the fraction of ICTPE allocated to it increase by 1.3% – an increase that deserves to be underlined. As a reminder, this CAS serves as a budgetary support for the financing of renewable energy support schemes in electricity or gas. We can therefore welcome the increase in the budgetary resources allocated to this public policy. However, we will need more visibility and readability as regards the allocation of these additional resources to the various renewable energies. However, multi-annual energy programming will soon provide more precise answers to national representation. Section 33 amends the car malus scale: it lowers the threshold for the application of the malus and introduces a progressive scale. This rise in power will further speed up the conversion of our fleet to cleaner vehicles, which I would like to commend for their success. We are already pleased with the adoption by the Committee on Finance of the amendment to refer pick-up vehicles to the car malus. Nevertheless, the proposed grid still contains some imperfections concerning diesel, which we will propose to correct, at the initiative of my colleague Damien Pichereau. I would like to draw your attention to the car bonus, which remains a regulatory issue. National representation is thus deprived of any legislative initiative or debate on this subject, which we regret. As part of our monitoring mission, we will therefore pay particular attention to the amounts of these devices as well as to the targeted vehicles. Ministers, during the review of the 2018 Finance Bill, you had an appointment this year on a number of topics such as the hydrofluorocarbon gas tax, known as "HFC gas". Following an important work of consultation with all stakeholders, I hope that we will collectively move forward on this issue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I sincerely welcome this budget, which, like last year, reflects with ambition and sincerity our environmental commitments. The magnitude of the challenge facing our country and our planet will sometimes mean going beyond the measures proposed. Our committee will therefore propose to you its balanced and pragmatic amendments, guided by the desire to reconcile environmental urgency with the support of all actors. On behalf of our committee, I would like once again to welcome these ambitious objectives and to assure you of our mobilization to achieve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u35	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u36	Finally a different voice! We're going to hear the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u37	Madam President, ministers, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, at every government in its day. Nicolas Sarkozy's government has faced a global crisis that is absolutely out of the ordinary: financial systems have collapsed and, for all countries, the recovery obviously required an increase in public spending. François Hollande faced a period of between two, the end of the crisis and the beginning of a period of global growth, which he tried to accompany, with more or less happiness, by the introduction of the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, the CICE. As for Emmanuel Macron, he enjoys a very favourable growth cycle, which gives him all the cards in hand to reduce spending and carry out reforms in depth quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u38	And yet...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u39	[[Smile]] I was going to say, my dear colleague: "And yet..." The reality of your policy is not quite that: spending is still increasing, our debt is still so high and the public deficit is going up again. The government's own deficit will worsen by €13 billion next year, reaching €98.7 billion. In concrete terms, when the government cashes 100, it spends another third. The budget is sincere – as you said yourself, Minister of Public Action and Accounts, and I believe you are sincerely trying to make it sincere (Sorry) – except on one point: income tax revenues are calculated over eleven months, while the French will pay this tax over twelve months. It's a curious way to count things! The government deficit is, like waltz, composed of three times. First, it slows down. Second, its level remains very high compared to the euro area average. Finally, the structural deficit is almost not reduced, as it is 2% in 2019, compared to 2.2% in 2018. Structural efforts are very weak, as regularly reported by the Court of Auditors and the High Council for Public Finance. As every year, there are always good external reasons for trying to explain the bad news – for example, the two-year transformation of the CICE – but even without these elements, the deficit would be twice the average for the euro area. Above all, this does not change the structural component of our deficit. There is therefore no reason to consider it a feat to be just below 3% when all or almost all the other countries are far below. Our debt remains overwhelming and is not reduced, reaching 98.6% of GDP in 2019. The state is going to borrow €228 billion this year: it is more than it has ever borrowed in recent years. Next year, public expenditure is expected to continue to increase by some EUR 25 billion, pursuing a growth target of 0.3% in volume. However, this growth in public spending is slowing down – we are pleased to note that. The same applies to the State's pilotable expenditure. Nevertheless, overall government spending will increase by €4 million next year. In reality, we must ask ourselves whether this slowdown in expenditure growth is cyclical or structural. For my part, I think it is short-term and unsustainable. Yet, the mother of all battles, the key to our country's success is the structural decline in public spending in order to improve our competitiveness. By fighting over-expenditure, we are increasing the competitiveness of our economy, hence the purchasing power of the French. It is this virtuous circle that you have not managed to set in motion. With some stubbornness and consistency, I therefore ask you the same question as last year: where is your program to reduce public spending?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u40	He's hidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u41	Why not make it public? Or is it just a finding you're making over the water? You launched the CAP 22 report, which should be the reading grid for reducing public expenditure. It was actually a copy of what happened ten years ago... What a delay in our country! Nevertheless, you did not want to be inspired by it – unless you did not make this decision public. While we still know nothing about your structural savings plan, we are well aware of your particularly important spending plan on health, poverty reduction and universal service. You are putting back to tomorrow what needs to be done today: pension reform, which must not be a cosmetic reform but a reform that consolidates the financing of our pensions, the rationalisation of health spending and the reduction of the number of public servants. I pass, and time also passes, and political time is twice as fast as the time of normal life. However, you have not yet begun to reduce our country's public spending and public deficits in a sustainable manner. Your policy, because it is draft, becomes unreadable for all the French. There are indeed "pluses" and "lesses" in all directions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u42	It's a hat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u43	You play on social categories by making massive transfers. We have moved from the policy of "at the same time" to that of "not quite": we do not go to the end. You're removing the housing tax, but not for everyone, and under amazing conditions, on which I'll come back. You want to lower the cost of working for the unskilled, but you are putting the expected reliefs on low wages to a halt, when this is the heart of French unemployment. You are continuing the decline in corporate tax, a measure that François Hollande had voted for, but increase the fifth advance of this tax for many middle-sized companies – ETI – and SMEs. You are turning the competitiveness and employment tax credit into a reduction in expenses, but you are not neutralizing the significant impact of this measure on corporate tax. It is, in fact, the posting of a policy, followed by ad hoc measures or against-sense results of this policy. Today, Minister responsible for the budget, you, together with the Prime Minister, are launching a rather surreal debate on the housing tax: on the pretext that some French people are not affected by the fall this year, you are immediately taking responsibility for it to your former colleagues: the mayors – at the very moment when relations with local authorities are largely degraded. As you must know, mayors never increase taxes for pleasure. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Worse, you point at communities by quoting names – it's probably your "name and shame" culture. Mayors fight every day to ensure the quality of public services: let them explain themselves with their voters. Should they apply for your permission to modify local taxation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u44	You have to believe that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u45	... or are they still free to raise rates, according to the law and according to their public policy priorities? The municipalities, which you nail to the pillori, would have increased this housing tax, with or without your reform, because they adapt their resources, in particular because of the declines in endowments of the past. In addition, many of them had not increased their rates in several years. In this respect, I note that the number of municipalities that have increased their housing tax is roughly the same as it is every year. It is therefore a bad trial that you are doing to the local authorities, and more particularly to the communes. The housing tax notice is in itself quite surreal: it begins to look like a leaflet, in the same way as the payroll. Is it normal for this opinion to state that the taxpayer's gain is diminished because of the increase in local taxation – in other words, that it is the mayor's fault? So go to the end of your logic and ask, for example, the organizations that pay pensions to make appear on the pension bulletins what pensioners lose because of the quasi-freeze of pensions that you have decided,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...or what retirement they would have received if you hadn't increased the CSG. And why don't you tell the motorists too, on the cash tickets of the gas stations...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u48	And even on the pumps!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u49	– or, better yet, on the pumps themselves – at what price they would have paid for gasoline...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u50	The French will appreciate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u51	...if you hadn't decided to increase energy taxation? We can go fast enough and far enough with this reasoning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u52	Thank you to the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u53	Anyway, don't half do it. As far as your policy on purchasing power is concerned, I contest the idea that the increase in the CSG will bring about a lasting increase in the CSG. What you have chosen is not a kind of social VAT – which, I would remind you, allows for a reduction in employers' costs, not wages, in order to promote the competitiveness of companies, when this is an artificial gain in purchasing power. It is not pensioners, to whom you constantly give moral lessons, who must ensure the purchasing power of the assets. The truth is that you base your policy on massive transfers between French. You are telling the French that you are going to reduce compulsory levies by €6 billion, implying that it would be €6 billion in additional purchasing power. That's not true. Looking at the details, I am surprised to see, for example, that you include as an increase in purchasing power the reduction of 300 million euros corresponding to the additional exemption of CSG for 300,000 pensioners: in concrete terms, you cancel a tax increase last year and make believe that it is additional purchasing power. That is not the case. You also forget, among other things, the decline in personalized housing assistance – APL. What is achieved in this way, in fact, is not a purchase power gain of €6 billion for the French, but a negative impact of €650 million. The Institute of Public Policy, which met on Thursday or Friday, found that the biggest losers of your policy are the most modest 20% of households and pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u54	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u55	The President of the Republic tells companies that their levies will fall by 18.8 billion euros, but the truth is that you are increasing them sustainably by 4.3 billion – we have done the calculations and keep tables at your disposal. The CICE switch is, in principle, a short-term measure, which you do not take into account in your deficits, so that it can be removed symmetrically, nor do you count the negative effect on corporate tax which will automatically increase. Ministers, you are wrong about politics and, in a time of reshaping, I therefore propose that you first reshape your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u56	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u57	We are defending another fiscal vision: that of competitiveness, which must offer the French a lasting increase in their purchasing power. We would not have made the same choices as you and, as we will see during the discussion of the amendments, our proposals are profoundly changing your budget. Do not say systematically, as you did earlier and as a sort of mantra, that whenever the opposition proposes a measure, it is not financed, whereas, curiously, when it is the Government that does it, the measure is financed – certainly by debt! Thus, the Republicans have proposed an ambitious programme of savings in relation to your trajectory and based on structural reforms, for an amount of 30 billion euros in full year. The key is the competitiveness of companies. Distributed wealth is first of all created wealth. If they are more resilient to crises and contribute to more growth, companies will distribute more wages and thus more purchasing power. It's obviously not that bet you made. We propose a gradual reduction of production taxes. It is necessary to defend an industrial France by lowering the scale of the contribution on the added value of companies – CVAE – which will be neutral for the communities. We also propose to lower the trajectory of the corporate tax rate to compensate for the removal of the CICE. We would not have accepted everything from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – what you have accepted in the field of patents. Bruno Le Maire, present here, considered that this advantage should not be removed dryly, otherwise he would shoot himself in the foot. But that's obviously what you've decided to do – and you're also getting one out of the way with the company's innovation. We would have removed the property tax – IFI. You, for your part, have removed part of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – and created this new tax, which does not make much sense. We would not have increased the malus and, on the basis of an evolution of the techniques for measuring carbon dioxide emissions, taxed even more those who want to buy an automobile. Your Government had committed itself to neutralizing this effect, but that is not the case and will cost motorists €350 million. We would not have maintained the carbon trajectory for 2019 in a context of rising oil prices. We would not have limited the revalorisation of the amount of pensions and family allowances to 0.3%, when inflation gallops to almost 1.5%. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the budget that you are presenting to us, and that you have to read in connection with the budget for 2018 – it is, in fact, the same – and with the social security funding bill for 2019, you are not responding to the country's major issues. You are not achieving any of the objectives that a good budget should set in our current situation: to increase the competitiveness of our economy through the sustainable reduction of debt and to create social calm through inclusive justice measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u58	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u59	Ministers, I look forward to seeing you back. The other day, when we were talking about tax evasion, you were not there and we regretted you, because it was interesting. Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you a motion rejecting the 2019 finance bill, because our group believes that this finance bill does not respond to the urgency of the day, particularly the climate issue, that it creates and develops inequalities and that it is, in fact, generally bad for our country's economy. Earlier, Mr Woerth explained that this budget was the continuity of the 2018 budget. I fully agree with this and, since it is a matter of continuity, you will allow me to return briefly to this budget, which we already find to be a bad affair for the country. In 2018, you had released a massive gold checkbook for the richest, and you had taken on it – between 7 and 9 billion euros of tax gifts to the richest, and especially to the capital holders –: the abolition of capital tax, flat tax, the increase in dividend payments in 2018, the abolition of the last tranche of the trader's wage tax and the maintenance of the CICE and the promise of its worsening the following year with its transformation into an exemption from social contributions corresponding to roughly the 20 billion euros that this CICE unfortunately has been costing us for too long years. I recall, because it is always good to listen, that according to France Stratégie, to whom we owe the best study published on the CICE, this device has finally reported – or, rather, saved – only 100,000 jobs. On investment, the CICE Monitoring Committee, in its evaluation report, "recognises that the existence of a significant CICE impact on investment remains difficult to establish over the period 2013-2015. This lack of effect, if proven, is not surprising, as investment decisions may take time to be implemented. The same report also refers to an effect that would, at best, be generally neutral in terms of employment. As far as the Danaides are concerned, we have done little better in our country in recent years than the CICE, and you are unfortunately about to aggravate the situation. You have filled the pockets of finance and I must acknowledge, Mr. Le Maire, as I did at the time, that you are taking on this policy of increasing the income from finance, on the grounds that it would serve investment and, ultimately, employment – I will return to it. On the other hand, unfortunately, the most disadvantaged classes in our country had an empty stomach at the end of this finance bill and still have it today. This budget was notably marked by the reduction of EUR 5 of the APLs, the increase of the CSG by 1.7%, or EUR 22.6 billion from pensioners, the abolition of 180000 assisted contracts, of which all those interested in the real life of the citizens of this country saw the consequences all year round, with the elimination of thousands of crucial jobs for associations and municipalities, whether in crèches, canteens, assistance for disabled people and pupils – we mentioned here a few days ago the auxiliaries of school life – or extracurricular activities. You locked up the ministries and sentenced them to a life sentence of austerity. The ministry of ecological transition, on which I will also come back earlier, was completely handcuffed, with 800 jobs removed: funny way of doing ecology! From a budgetary point of view, housing has also been placed in detention, with €1.9 billion in budget cuts, including €800 million on HLM offices. The result is clear, and it appears even today in the press, with the conclusions of the annual congress of the Union sociale pour l'habitat, which is a disaster for the HLM movement in France, due both to the decrease of the APLs, passed on to the rents which had to be reduced all the more, and to the fact that the HLM offices are now without means and are obliged to sell their parks, as you authorized them there with the law on housing, development and digital development – ELAN. The conclusion of this congress is that the HLM movement may survive, but unfortunately it is to be feared that there will be far fewer new HLM constructions in the coming years – this is already the case, but it will get worse with the ELAN law. Mr Giraud said earlier that the results are there. They are there, indeed, but they are negative – it is not I who say it, it is the figures of INSEE and OFCE. In the first half of 2018, France experienced a growth rate of 0.3% in terms of growth and purchasing power, while the rate was three times higher in the rest of the euro area. I must admit, in all honesty, that this situation is not limited to France: there is indeed an economic reversal at world level, which makes us fear that we will be closer to the next financial crisis than to several years of reviving activity and growth. We all know that, since the structural problems of financial capitalism have not been resolved since the subprime crisis, the problem is not whether there will be a crisis, but rather when it will break out. However, the results are worse in France than in our neighbours. At the end of last year, I observed very often in the Finance Committee, that colleagues from the majority, and even ministers, were tarrying at the good results of the end of 2017, due to the first half of the Macron era. We were told that the economic recovery observed at the end of 2017 was due to the amending budget and some measures taken here or there. It will therefore be difficult for you to explain today that the bad results of the first half of 2018 are not due to your policy and that, as you ask today, it would be necessary to judge your long-term policy. On the contrary, we believe that the results achieved by INSEE are due to your policy, including your 2018 Finance Bill. The explanation is simple: 70% of the gap between the economic performance of our country and that of the rest of Europe is due to the poor performance of consumption. Household purchasing power fell by 0.6% in the first quarter, the largest decline in France in six years. These poor economic results are the direct result of bad government choices in the last finance bill. Mr Darmanin, you explained last August that growth would not be less than 1.8%: admit with me that it is missed, unfortunately, most experts say that it will not exceed 1.6% at best. Of course, the unemployment rate is 9.1%, a decrease of 0.3% from 2017. But the least we can say is that we are far from a revival: it stagnates. In addition, there were only 129,000 job creations in the first half of 2017, compared to 347,000 in 2017, almost three times less in twice as much time: again, the results are less good. Finally, one of the most serious ills we knew unfortunately continues to plague this country: in the sixth economic power of the world, 9 million of our fellow citizens live below the poverty line, 70 per cent of whom are concentrated in large cities; 38% of the unemployed live below the poverty line. I heard a few times ago that it was enough for them to cross the street to find a job: I observe that it is not enough to cross the street to find a minister in this government! According to you, your budget for 2018 was revolution, which is why it would have to be judged in the long term, in order to take in substance the words of Mr Le Maire. But this budget of the offer is nothing new: it can even be called a budget of the dinosaurs' time, since you only dangerously aggravate the logic of your predecessors. For example, Nicolas Sarkozy, whom the subprime crisis stopped net because the state had to bail out banks, already had the will to provoke a shock by its supply policy. Similarly, François Hollande, in January 2014, explained in his press conference on the responsibility pact that supply created demand and that it was therefore necessary to move towards such a policy. In other words, Mr Le Maire, I do not share your view that the results of your budget should be measured in the light of a policy that would be totally new and unknown in France, namely to favour the reduction of the cost of labour – which we call the "price of labour" – in favour of capital whose runoff would benefit the whole society. This policy, unfortunately, has been applied for many years in France: even if you seriously aggravate it, it is nothing new. The least we can say is that it is very surprising to persevere in an old policy that does not work, or worsen it. I now turn to your 2019 finance bill, which is in keeping with the previous one. It presses the accelerator and leads us into the wall; It leads us into an ecological and social impasse. But this time, unlike last year, you don't take it easy. You claim to lower household taxes by 6 billion – that's the big number you came out of. It is quite surprising, however, that in order to explain these 6 billions, you were mixing the expenditure of the social security financing bill with that of the finance bill: when, at the last Finance Committee, we had put forward the figures of the OFCE, Mr Darmanin had challenged this presentation, explaining that these figures mixed social benefits with taxation. This cannot work one way: by saying that you benefit households to the tune of 6 billion, you mix the two budgets. In this case, agree that we are right to criticize this announcement for both the PLF and the PLFSS! Let's go back to that $6 billion: in your opinion, this is new money. Much of this is not true: it is the reduction in the housing tax, announced a year ago, which is now in force. I agree with my colleague Woerth: it is a little exaggerated, not to say scandalous, that you are attacking some mayors. Activists from En Marche! have even launched a new hashtag, "squeeze your mayor" – I find it more than doubtful – because some would have anticipated the future reduction of the housing tax by increasing the current one. I will not have the cruelty to remind you of how much the State's allocations to local and regional authorities have been reduced for several years! Of the $6 billion announced, $3.8 billion is due to the abolition of the housing tax, which we do not know today how high it will be compensated for for local and regional authorities. You tell us that it will be fully compensated, to the euro: this is what we have been saying for years to local and regional authorities, without this promise ever being fulfilled. These 6 billion also include the drop in contributions. That's the total scam! The reduction in these contributions is in fact to take on the socialised salary of the French – which we have decided to pool for social benefits, health, etc. –, supposedly to increase their purchasing power. But you understand that taking it in one pocket to put it in the other is all but an increase in the purchasing power of labour income! In fact, it is a transfer within labour income.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u61	On the other hand, when it comes to capital, there is no transfer that holds: you give businesses either real tax gifts or tax credits. Whenever it comes to work, you make a transfer; Whenever it concerns capital, you make net extra gifts. In this case, it is a scam because you take it from the socialised wages, that is the money that we have decided to draw from the production of wealth to ensure the payment of normal social benefits. In addition, I am sure that in a few months, in a few years, you will tell us that there is not enough money – you are beginning to do so because you have unindexed family allowances, retirement pensions and LPOs – personalized housing aids. You will even tax them to make them ultimately dependent on a particular choice of the majority. This transfer of the socialised wage to the net wage is therefore a scam; This is in no way a plus for the purchasing power of the French. It should be remembered that the first person to make this proposal, during the last presidential term, was called Marine Le Pen: to increase the purchasing power of employees, she claimed that the net salary had to be increased by taking on contributions. It's not surprising because we know where it is, but I'm a little surprised that you're applying the same recipes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u62	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u63	Yes, it's the truth, even if it's hard to hear! I repeat the thread: the OFCE explains that in reality this will not amount to 6 billion euros but only 3 billion euros – and again, I think they are generous because, at the same time, you are significantly de-indexing family, retirement and LPA benefits. For public spending, again, it's a blow from the club. I know this is about the second part of the finance bill, but you'll allow me to talk to you about it right now. It's a hit because you're cutting departmental budgets by 0.9%. You will argue that this is not true, but if inflation and population growth are taken into account, it is the strict reality: you are sabering the appropriations of the ministries by 0.9%. Moreover, in view of this criterion of population growth and inflation, you are once again hitting local and regional authorities by lowering the overall operating allocation of EUR 460 million. Similarly, you hit the state and the public services, with 2 billion euros being taken on the "Work" mission – the aided contracts will still take a hit. I would like to remind you that the average cost of an aided contract for the State is around 8000 euros; the average cost of a job saved with the CICE is 200000 euros – but these are the assisted contracts that you propose to delete, not the CICE! So it's a very bad deal. The drastic declines in aided contracts, according to a report by the Senate, have had very serious consequences for associations, communities, but also for EHPADs. The cohesion budget of the territories, which includes housing, will be reduced this year: it will be a real disaggregation budget since it will fall by 8.4 per cent, a decrease of more than $1 billion. In addition to these significant decreases, you are planning to abolish posts: 4200 net abolitions of posts in the public service of the State in 2019, almost three times as many as the 1,600 posts already abolished in 2018 – and this net balance nevertheless incorporates the creation of posts planned in the priority areas of action of the Government: creation of 2153 jobs in the Ministry of the Interior, 1300 at the Ministry of Justice and 466 jobs in the Ministry of the Armed Forces. If we put the increases in posts in these ministries aside, the others will suffer from a net decrease of 8412 jobs: minus 2313 for the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts – I do not know how we will fight more effectively against tax evasion and tax evasion by continuing to reduce the full-time equivalents in Bercy – minus 800 jobs in national education – Minister Blanquer keeps explaining to us that there will be more teachers in front of the students but we all know that this is wrong – minus 1078 jobs in the ecological and solidarity transition – I will come back – minus 280 jobs in the economy and finance, minus 512 jobs in the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, minus 1618 jobs in the Ministry of Labour, minus 277 jobs in the Ministry of Agriculture, minus 296 jobs in the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, minus 160 jobs in culture – in short, once again, you continue to weaken the state! A few days ago, we heard the President of the Republic explain that those who were for the 6th Republic – I think we were targeted, since we are in favour of a 6th Republic – were actually opponents of the state. I think that the opponents of the state are those who, year after year, tap the state, diminish its resources, its credits, its staff, making it less effective than in the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u64	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u65	Fortunately, what is left of it is still able to compensate for the absence of a minister of the interior for a few weeks – or perhaps a few months, moreover, given the effectiveness of Gérard Collomb! And I didn't mention the agricultural budget, which is down by 10.8%: it's a disaster! On these budgetary issues, I would like to focus on the Ministry of Ecology. The new budget of the Ministry of Ecology amounts to EUR 10.59 billion, compared to EUR 10.39 billion: adjusted for inflation, this represents a slight increase of 0.2%. However, you have planned the abolition of 1,078 positions at the ministry level, or 2% of the total mass. Some operators are in arrears: water agencies, Météo France, CEREMA – Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobility et l'aménagement –, INERIS – Institut national de l'environnement industrielle et des risques. While these operators will suffer 1% job losses, all tell us that they no longer know how they will succeed in fulfilling their mission – I am the Special Rapporteur on this subject. I am making this aside for a good reason: on the one hand, you cannot say that the issue of climate and the environment is the urgent, main issue, and on the other hand, reduce the staff of the Ministry of Ecology. You have even reduced the number of jobs at INERIS, the national institute that deals with the management of industrial risks. It is difficult not to put this in parallel with the drama that affects the Aude today. Of course, I do not want to go back to the current events, in particular the announcement of the disappearance of several of our fellow citizens. It's a tragedy, the Prime Minister went there: it's very good. But we all know that there will be more and more climate disasters; Even if we manage to limit global warming – and this is not what your policy is planning – we know that these climate disasters will happen. You cannot justify the reduction in the budget for risk management: this is not possible! Amendments will be proposed; I hope you'll find some clarity and come back to these kinds of decisions. If you wish, I invite you to interview the Director of Risk Management, or INERIS officials, who will explain how problematic this is for the future. I shall end with this apartment, which is intended to show how ubiquitous the situation has become with regard to the fall in public expenditure. At the same time as public spending is falling, more and more gifts are being given to large companies – 23.5 billion euros in additional gifts compared to 2018 for the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in contributions. We know that the CICE will cost twice as much in 2019: it is 40 billion that will be given, again without any constraints, with no arrows. Mr Le Maire, remember what you told us last year when we asked you how you were going to make this money go towards investment: "it's common sense." A year later, note with me that common sense is not there and if it is not there, it is because the logic of this system is not to serve the general interest. The logic of this system, due in particular to the competition between companies listed on the stock exchange, is to fuel capitalist rent as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u66	The greed is still there! Actually, you're naive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u67	That is why the money given without any dipping or constraint is directed towards profits, not investment and employment, and it has been for thirty years. But maybe you'll find out with me. In which case, if you are in good faith, you will correct the shot because you will agree that the results are not there. Where's the investment? Where are the job creations? Where's growth? You also propose to continue the reduction of corporate tax: in 2019, its rate will be reduced from 33.3% to 31% for profits beyond 500,000 euros. This decline will therefore not benefit small businesses. By running at least the so-called tax race in Europe, corporate tax will no longer be paid at all, but at some point companies will find it difficult to find suitable roads to drive their vehicles and benefit from government services. Contrary to what you claim, the Government does not make the choice of work, but of capital, once again, choice not only risky but foolish, and as old as the policy of Tchatcher, Blair or your predecessors, which you aggravate. In the few minutes I have left, I would like to advertise our counter-budget, which responds to a completely different logic. We have assumed that the serious political crisis under way forced the President of the Republic to dissolve the Assembly, paving the way for an unsubstantiated majority of France. What urgent budgetary measures would we propose in two months to repair the damage that you have committed? How would we promote popular consumption? How would we encourage a strong ecological investment, commensurate with the emergencies of the day? How would we restore resources to the state? This counter-budget is therefore characterised by the desire to repair all the damage you have done and to put the package on the issue of ecology and climate, on the fight against inequalities through, in particular, a great poverty plan, on a better distribution of wealth, at the expense of the income of capital. We are counting on the fact that by feeding income from work and thus purchasing power, it will run over society as a whole. We have planned this investment to the tune of EUR 43 billion. In terms of operations, our budget is balanced in terms of revenue and expenditure and therefore does not increase the deficit. On the other hand, we assume the choice of increasing investment expenditure, even at the price of a violation of the 3% rule, because, governing the country, we will make the voice of France heard in negotiations with our European partners. These 43 billion will include 30 billion green investments. We cannot afford words: if France really wants to comply with the Paris agreements, it will have to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 3 per cent a year, not increase them by 5 per cent, as has unfortunately been the case. And for this there is only one solution: the state must put the package on renewable energy, particularly marine energy, where we are more than zero in relation to the Grenelle's commitments on the environment, but also in terms of thermal insulation and organic farming. We spend €13 billion on social emergency: creation of university places, creation of places in EHPADs worthy of this name to meet the needs of the population. If this budget is balanced, it is in particular because we assume to take back all that you gave it last year, to the tune of 14.5 billion. In addition, we are strengthening inheritance rights to the detriment of the real nobility of money that is being built up in our country, where the share of inheritance in individual wealth is only increasing, from 40 to 70 per cent in 30 years. We expect the removal of 9 billion anti-ecological niches, and unnecessary niches like Copé or Pinel – the Court of Auditors itself says – to the tune of 13.8 billion. We are also proposing to strengthen the progressivity of the income tax with the introduction of fourteen tranches, which would bring an additional 10 billion. We devote these revenues to the establishment of a major poverty plan, a zero-home plan, a minimum income of 1000 euros, that is, the poverty line. We also propose a number of measures aimed at rearming the State with the creation of 57250 posts in the civil service and a plan to boost activity through the increase in the purchasing power of public officials and public services through the upgrading of the SMIC and the end of the freeze on the civil service index. We also propose a youth autonomy allowance of 800 euros. Finally, we propose to return to the ministries the appropriations you have withdrawn from them since 2018 and to increase the overall operating allocation to 2.37 billion euros. I invite you to discover the details of this counter-budget, a translation of a demand policy based on both popular consumption and a revival of the ecologically necessary activity, and a policy to combat inequalities. A few days ago – it was the opinion – the majority refused to consider our colleague Pradie's bill to improve the situation of staff accompanying children with disabilities in schools. By chance of the calendar, I found myself the next day in my constituency, in Saint-Ouen, being questioned about the needs of AESH, which are sorely lacking. You refused the debate, you chose not to hear and voted on a motion to reject it beforehand. Today, it is our turn to refuse to hear you. We do not want you to negotiate the welfare of the people on the table of austerity. We do not want to hear you calculate how to fill the pockets of the rich by eating to the bone the public services. We do not want to taste the European golden rule which should always be subject to the green ecological rule which requires that we do not consume or produce more than the planet can bear. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It is for all these reasons that I invite you to vote on this motion to reject the draft budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u68	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u69	On your last point, Mr Coquerel, I would like to remind you that the Government and the majority are pursuing a proactive policy of combating disability and supporting people with disabilities, in particular by increasing the allowance for adults with disabilities, by making room for people with disabilities in the company and by accompanying students with disabilities to school. The Government's determination in this matter is complete, I wanted to remind you – even though this subject has little to do with the 2019 Finance Bill. As far as this is concerned, I do not share your diagnosis because, yes, the Government's policy is working. You tell us that there is no growth, no job creation, no investment, but the figures are wrong: 1.7% growth in 2018 and 2019, compared to 0.8% on average over the last ten years. We will exceed the 100,000 job creations in 2018 and we tripled the number of creations in the market sector in 2017. Business investment is growing and has never been so high. I quote INSEE's figures: Investment accounted for 23.2% of business value added in 2016, 23.5% in 2017, 23.8% in 2018 and we expect 24% in 2019. The Government's policy of supporting innovation, investment and digitalisation of our companies, sorry to tell you, but it works! We can defend another policy and I have listened carefully to your arguments in favour of a policy of demand and a revival of public spending. You just forget to say that the increase in public spending a year usually translates into an increase in the debt and taxes of all French people the following year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u70	Tax is not a bad thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u71	Such a policy leads France straight into the wall! It does not create jobs, no activity, it does not support companies, it does not allow to raise the qualifications of employees or to innovate. We have a real difference of diagnosis and it's happy. You think that it is imperative to revive demand by means of public expenditure; We believe that there is a need to improve the supply of enterprises through investment and innovation, and that policy is working. I am convinced that the European states that will make the choice of ever more public spending, and ever more debt, will be the ones that will sink tomorrow, and that, conversely, all those who, like us, have had the courage to turn their backs on a policy whose failure is proven and which only feeds poverty, not to say misery, will lead to the relegation of certain territories, to closures of undertakings, to widespread deindustrialisation, all those who have had the courage to ensure that capital allows companies to invest, innovate, digitize themselves, improve the quality of their production, to train their employees, to irrigate the economic fabric. This policy will work and the French will be grateful. The figures are there: investment starts again, market employment starts again and growth is strong. The facts are there, the French will judge but I have no doubt about the strength of the Government's political choices. In your opinion, Mr. Woerth, to vote for the application of a reduced rate to the gains from patent assignments would be to shoot himself in the foot. I am a little surprised to hear the Republicans invite us to sit down on international rules. That is what we have done for years and we have not done well. For my part, I believe that European and OECD rules must be respected because we cannot claim to defend multilateralism against the rise of nationalism and at the same time refuse to apply multilateral rules. That, on the other hand, we must do everything we can to ensure that these rules are in line with France's interests, and I agree with you, Mr President of the Committee on Finance. That is why we have accepted the rapporteur-general's proposal to reduce the rate from 15 % to 10 %. That is why we have integrated the software into the scope of this reduced rate, which will be an important comparative advantage for the companies concerned. That is why we will also negotiate with the OECD to limit the recapture effect that reduced the eligible base of this reduced rate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We want to respect these rules to safeguard our political credibility, but we have, in agreement with the majority and on the proposal of the rapporteur-general, taken all measures to calm your fears, Mr Woerth, so that France remains and becomes even more a great innovation nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u72	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke first of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u73	[[Smile]] At the same time, I will respond to the minister. With Bruno Le Maire, we've been engaged in a dialogue for some time – but it's not unpleasant; Anyway, there's worse. First point: the numbers. On the investment side, you've been reproducing what's been government communication for some time. Whenever economic figures are presented, not only the results of the first half of the year, but also the forecasts are given. As a result, in general, it is said that in the first half of the year it is falling, but that it is finally getting better, because according to the forecasts, it is going to go up – except that what is happening does not correspond to the forecasts of the end of 2017, including the investments. So I invite you to wait until the end of the year to see where we will be. We will also take this opportunity to look at the figures on purchasing power. There is one thing that you will not be able to dispute, it is the INSEE figures that show that purchasing power and popular consumption are declining – a decline that is more significant than in other European countries. However, INSEE explains this by decreasing popular consumption, increasing CSG etc. I'm not the one who says it. I'm the INSEE! So we'll see the results, but please don't use the forecasts to try to turn lead into gold. It doesn't work. Wouldn't stimulus policies work anywhere? That's the bouquet! Where do you think the situation is best today: in Portugal or Greece? In Greece, the economy has been reduced in several sectors to that of an underdeveloped country, while in Portugal, where a policy of reviving activity has been pursued, whether in terms of purchasing power or employment, this is much better than in countries with strict supply policies. What you're saying is what we've been told for thirty years! For thirty years, we have been following the policies you propose, the figures are bad, and we are assured that it is because we do not go far enough, that we must continue. There is always a need for less state, less taxes, less public spending, less income for labour and more income for capital. It's the same thing we've been told for thirty years, Mr. Le Maire!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u74	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] All this is not working. Unfortunately, your budget will further increase the difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u76	Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u77	Minister, you're talking about growth, quoting high numbers – which we don't deny. All right, growth is good, but restoring purchasing power to the French is better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u78	And how do we do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u79	Creating jobs is good, but if it could be full-time jobs, with open-ended contracts and well-paid contracts, it would be better! This is not the case today. It would be interesting to look more closely at current job creation: we would then see the precariousness of situations, the low level of wages and how far we are from the point of view! Who benefits from growth? We can ask ourselves the question. You say that if the debt were even higher, it would lead France and Europe to the brink of bankruptcy. However, in 2008, at the time of the financial crisis, France's debt amounted to EUR 1000 or EUR 1200 billion, half of its current level, which did not prevent our country or the other Member States of the European Union and the world from sinking into a financial crisis, the cost of which we are still paying today. Stop opposing the argument of the cost of debt: this is not what threatens our countries! On the other hand, it is used year after year to make the French accept new sacrifices and austerity policies. We will vote on the motion to reject beforehand, because we need another budget for France, a budget that gives back purchasing power to the French, which proposes a fairer taxation, with a better progressivity of the tax, especially for the companies, because those that will benefit most from the reduction of the corporate tax, are the largest of them – a report that has been given to us in fact the demonstration. We also need to invent a new economic, ecological and social model. There is none of this in your draft budget. [[Rites and exclamations on various benches.– Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We will therefore vote against... pardon, on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u80	[[Smile]] Revealing lapsus!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u81	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u82	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to be sceptical about the motivation for you to defend such a motion! I hear your criticisms, but I would remind you that the Finance Committee met last week for more than 25 hours and that we discussed more than 1400 amendments. In my view, your approach is merely a strategy of obstruction, because of the forty-day period given to us by the Constitution; an obstruction which would have the effect of penalising French citizens – whom you claim to defend. After a weekend filled with a media tohu-bohu indigestible, very derisory in view of the disasters our fellow citizens in the south of France, I will quote Jean Rostand: "In politics, fools can make sure that it is the wise who are wrong. » As far as the substance is concerned, what is presented to us today in the Chamber is a budget of wisdom, an ambitious and courageous budget, capable of enabling our country to meet the challenges it faces. To restore purchasing power to the French, to free up work in order to revive growth, to combat unemployment effectively: this is what is at the heart of the project included in the finance bill. The work of the French will be paid more fairly thanks to the revalorisation of the activity premium and the exemption of social contributions on overtime. The levy at source is a measure of simplification and justice: faced with an accident of life or a drop in income, our citizens will no longer suffer the double penalty of paying a disproportionate tax. Moreover, these advances will not be achieved by aggravating our public deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u84	Indeed, the bill confirms the return of the latter to the level of 3 per cent of national wealth. This majority has chosen sincerity towards our citizens, as demonstrated by the absence of excessive recourse to advance decrees. This is an incantatory promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u85	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, we will not vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u87	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u88	Before I give the position of the Republican Group, I wish to express my regret at the procedure adopted for motions. Indeed, none of the main opposition groups will be able to put forward a motion on this text, since this procedure provides for a drawing of lots between the groups. On such an important piece of legislation as the finance bill, it is not logical that the main opposition groups should not be able to defend any motion. I ask you, Madam President, to forward this complaint to the office. If the Republicans do not support the draft budget for 2019, we do not share the analysis of unsubstantiated France, as presented to us by Mr Coquerel. However, our disagreements with the draft budget are numerous – I will retain five of them. First, the trajectory of public spending is not stabilizing. You are unable, Minister, to contain the expenses, which will continue to increase in volume. Secondly, we deplore the lack of structural reforms, which the High Council for Public Finance denounces as follows: "Inadequate structural effort". In the absence of structural reforms, the Government renounces its European commitments: while France's effort is expected to be 0.5 percentage points of gross domestic product, it will only represent 0.1 percentage points in 2018 and 0.3 percentage points in 2019. Thirdly, your tax policy is unreadable. The Government creates flows, makes transfers to each other, but does not propose stable and constant taxation. I will give two examples. First example: on the one hand, corporate tax is reduced, on the other, the fifth instalment is increased, a measure which was to be provisional but which may continue. The second example is the creation, a few months before the start of the levy at source, of a 60% down payment mechanism for certain tax reductions and credits. Fourthly, as has already been said, this budget will not make France more competitive. Finally, it will not give back purchasing power to the French and will not make France fairer – it is the Institute of Public Policy that affirms this: the quasi-freezing of benefits and pensions will severely penalise modest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u89	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u90	For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u91	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u92	Mrs Lise Magnier, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard the reasons for La France's opposition to the 2019 finance bill. I will not dwell on the substance, because the debate seems to me to be long enough. If we do not share all of La France's arguments and diagnoses, we believe that some budgetary and fiscal choices are being raised. However, we believe that it is here, in session, that we need to discuss the positive and negative aspects of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In addition, we have a duty of responsibility. To reject the finance bill today would be to potentially deprive the state of its budget or at least to shift its adoption, hence the implementation. This does not seem reasonable or responsible to us. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u94	The next speaker is Mr François Pupponi, for the Socialist and Related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u95	There are several reasons why we will vote in favour of this motion of rejection. Minister, I would like to come back to the question of figures. You mentioned a number of them. However, the figures we are concerned about are those relating to housing. Last year, we alerted you that the housing policy enshrined in the finance law for 2018, and then aggravated by the ELAN law was going to bring down the construction figures in France. Well, in 2018, we lost 25,000 new social housing compared to 2016. The number of social rental loans and integrated rental loans – PLUS and PLAI – is 15% lower than the demand. We have told the Government that it takes the terrible responsibility to break social housing, which works well, to break the construction of new housing, which works well, and that it will lose housing, revenue and, in a way, growth. Unfortunately, the figures are correct. We do not perceive, through this finance bill, any reaction from the Government. You will therefore be obliged, Minister, to make a draft amending finance bill for 2019, in order to give margins to the housing, because you will see the collapse of the construction figures, as well as that of the revenues that go with it. On this subject, we were not heard in committee; We have tried to convince the rapporteur-general, but to no avail. The other issue that the rapporteur-general has not mentioned is how you deal with local authorities, particularly with adjustment variables.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u96	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u97	For example, Mr. Minister, you have the EUR 50 million allocated to Saint-Martin by local authorities as a result of the Prime Minister's statement. Frankly, is this worthy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u98	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u99	[[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on several benches in the LR group]] The Prime Minister is currently in the Aude – which is to his credit. The President of the Republic announced that he would also go there, probably tomorrow. While it is perfectly normal for the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to visit our fellow citizens affected by these dramatic events, the State will surely announce the release of new resources for the departments concerned. Minister, can you make the commitment here before the national representative that in the finance bill you will not make finance from the adjustment variables the appropriations granted by the state?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u100	I have received a motion from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u101	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the draft finance bill is probably one of the most important moments of the year, since it reflects the various means allocated to national policies through the appropriations made available to the ministries. The finance bill is therefore expenditure, but it is also revenue. It is true that today we hear more about spending than about revenue, with this message constantly resounding and relayed that public spending should be reduced. What for? To lower taxes. The big word is out: the French pay too much tax! To demonize the tax, to fight the tax... why so much hard work? A society worthy of this name must call on each and every one of us to participate according to its contributing capacities, and probably also according to societal challenges. Tax is our security. Nobody wants to compromise security. Many, here or there, are demanding additional police or gendarmes – but how are gendarmes and police paid, how are police hotels and gendarmerie funded? By taxes, of course! Many rightly denounce class deletions, school closures, overloaded classes, unreplaced absences or students without a university. But how is the school of the Republic financed in our country? With the tax, of course! Health, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, public research, infrastructure and so many other things are tax financed. And we keep putting in the head of the French that they pay too much tax! Is there too much security, too much education, too much health resources? We are being rebuffed throughout the day that public spending needs to be reduced in order to reduce taxes; But reducing public spending means reducing the supply of public services! Doing better with less is great! Let's do it with less, we'll probably do it even better! Mutualization would be the solution to all problems. A dose of mutualization, a digital zest, and the case is settled! Frankly, you really have to be from the old world to not understand that! And so much if a part of the population is "dropped"! Yes, tax is more necessary than ever, but it must be fair. It is the feeling of injustice that makes many French people react. In this regard, I would like to return briefly to the ignoble campaign launched last Friday on the theme of "Squeez your mayor". Well, yes, the Government has decided to abolish the housing tax within three years, communicating a great deal about this measure. And patatras! The tax notices that have been in the mailboxes for a few days do not always look like last year's ones reduced by a third, for a variety of reasons, which are completely admissible. It is true that, in its rush to communicate, the Government had stalemated on various totally predictable scenarios. And among them, the fact that some municipalities would increase tax rates, not for pleasure, of course, but because they had planned it in terms of, for example, investments made. The new rates, moreover, are not necessarily higher than those of other municipalities which have not increased their rates. And now these communes – from 5000 to 6,000, out of a total of 35,000 – are thrown at the popular vindiction and their mayors accused of treason, the minister even going so far as to thank the 30,000 mayors who did not raise their rates! It is unworthy, and even scandalous, to take the lead on these elected officials who give time without counting, forced them to juggle with the declines in endowments, which, despite promises, affected many communes in 2018. I hope that, instead of identifying culprits, the Government will quickly support these unjustly accused elected officials, and that it will clarify its position by removing any ambiguity. We shall be surprised, after such words, by the crisis of vocations! Let's go back to this finance bill. Is this a good project? Rather than just criticizing me in fact, rather than saying that it cannot be a good budget, I will ask several questions to appreciate it. First, is the effort required of the French well proportionate? Is everyone's contribution to the preservation of the public interest balanced? Is this a justice budget? Unfortunately, on this first question, I have to answer no. For the second year in a row, France's budget will be deprived of the resources necessary to drive ambitious policies for the benefit of all and for the benefit of all. It is the feeling of injustice, I said at the moment, that makes the French react, because many of them do not understand that there is double standards. The recent report on the capping of the ISF revealed that in 2017, the 358,000 taxpayers who had paid this tax accumulated € 1028 billion in assets. Yes, a thousand billion, that is, half of our gross domestic product! And it is to this very small minority of the first of the ropes, to paraphrase someone, that we unfold the red carpet and to which we make sumptuous gifts, in this case a cheque of more than 3 billion euros. That's money! A "crazy money"! When we think that the Government has blocked the bill of our colleague André Chassaigne on the revalorisation of the pensions of former farm managers, with a guaranteed minimum which would have increased from 75% to 85% of the SMIC, that is to say from 871 to 987 euros! But who here would accept such a retreat? Do you know how much this measure would cost? Answer: 350 million euros, that is three times less than the loss of revenue generated by the flat tax, this famous measure which has made it possible to block the taxation of financial income and dividends received by large shareholders to 30%, thus making them gain 1 billion euros. Do you think, without that money, they would have ended up on the straw? Get out of your bubble, ladies and gentlemen, get out of your certitudes. Look at the truth in the face. In any case, I can tell you that, in my Allier department, the pill has not passed, and it is not near to pass! In our rural areas, as in urban areas, some retirees heat only one room in the winter, and sometimes only part of the day. So you who have a finger on the stitching of the pants in front of the big finance, you who want to "release the energies", open your eyes at last! Retirees are the unloved ones of your majority, even if you don't like being told. Moreover, it is not I who say it, but they, and unanimously. And they must have told you too, ladies and gentlemen, when you received them, as is probably the case with some of you – and as I did myself – in your permanences. After the increase in the CSG of 1.7 percentage points for 60% of them, pensions are expected to be raised by only 0.3% for the next two years, while inflation, which starts again, will reach 1.7%. This still represents a loss of purchasing power for this category of French, for this generation which, very often, has worked hard all its life, from a very young age. Retirees should not simply be treated from an accounting perspective, as a burden, in accordance with the message you send them. Pensioners are socialised, active, engaging with their children and grandchildren to overcome the difficulties that a number of them face before entering working life or in precarious situations to finance their education, for example. Pensioners are also very active in the community, be they social, sports, cultural or humanitarian, among others. This commitment is a valuable asset; It allows it to live together around dedicated volunteers, without which this "living together" would be a very hollow expression. But this life together must be preserved; better, strengthen it in the face of the temptation of self-restraint which feeds the most dangerous, the most extreme populisms, and for which the foreigner is not welcome. Retirees are not the only ones in the viewfinder. Families will also pay as family benefits will be subject to the same dry plan in 2019 and 2020. The index point in the public service is blocked. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you make the choice of finance rather than that of the human, the human first that we communists love to put forward. You choose a minority of privileged people to the detriment of the greatest number and the general interest. Emmanuel Macron confirms, as we said last year, that he is the President of the rich. And you, dear and dear colleagues of the majority, are, by allowing and supporting the political orientations that I have described, also becoming the deputies of the rich, and even the very rich. This budget is therefore a budget of injustice, and it will further aggravate inequalities in this country. Friday night, I was in Moulins for the inauguration of the new premises of the Secours populaire français. Fortunately, there are people in our country who reason in terms of solidarity rather than profit! The needs are immense and, despite the tremendous work done by these organizations, citizens are excluded from society. They express great concern, ministers, about the future of the European aid fund for the most deprived. This fund is essential to meet food needs. Will it be renewed in the years to come or, as some fear, melted into other devices to disappear quietly? On this issue, we ask you for the utmost vigilance and unwavering commitment to ensure that all those involved are not subject to double punishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u102	I have, in the past, demonstrated my commitment to the matter, Mr. Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u103	The newspaper La Montagne came back, in its Saturday edition, on the question of poverty. The publication of the first report on this subject coincides with the consideration of this Finance Bill. If this report indicates that France is, and so much better, one of the countries of Europe with the lowest rate of extreme poverty, and that poverty has not exploded in the last decade, then it has not declined. From this point of view, the Observatoire des Inequalités is concerned about the ever younger poor, or those who raise their children alone. If it is not an explosion of poverty, it is still a significant increase and a reversal of the trend of recent decades, which rather revealed a reduction of inequalities, Anne Brunner, project leader of this first report, analyses. Between 2006 and 2016, the number of poor people living below a threshold of 50% of median income – i.e. 855 euros per month for a single person – increased from 4.4 million to 5 million. Single-parent families, mostly women, have also been severely affected by poverty in recent years. They account for almost a quarter of the poor population, a much higher proportion than the proportion of these families in the general population. According to Louis Maurin, director of the Observatoire des Inequalités, the poverty plan presented in mid-September by Emmanuel Macron does "not much to help these families"; In addition, he "shall pretend to act at the root by wanting to give priority to children. [...] It is necessary to act for the children, but the root of poverty", says Louis Maurin, "it is the precariousness of their parents, the low wages, the unemployment". It is not we who say it, but we communists also say it, and for a long time now, with others. According to the calculations of the Institute of Public Policy, disadvantaged classes are disadvantaged by the last two finance bills, while 1% of the richest French people see their standard of living rise. It's a height! But this is entirely in line with your liberal economic philosophy. That's what you call runoff policy. It consists in giving a little more to those who have much for them, in their great kindness, in their great generosity, to drop a few drops of it. Far from runoff, it's more like a gout policy! What happened to those billions that were supposed to restart the economy? Those of the ISF, those of the flat tax, those of the CICE? It was so simple that no one before you had thought about it: we had to "release the energies". And we were going to see what we were going to see! But we didn't see anything. Finally, if: we have seen the gap widen even further between those who have everything, and those who want more, and those who do not have much. In fact, there is a fundamental difference between this finance bill and last year's. This difference is not due to the construction of this text or the philosophy behind it. It lies only in the time elapsed since the last budget proposal. A year ago, you were walking on the water and it wasn't time to bring her back. We had entered the new world and, finally, our century opened up to new perspectives. And then, little by little, the truth turned out, the new Jupitian world had nothing new and the old recipes had not been put back in the closet. Patients are still piled up in the emergency corridors; In hospitals and EHPADs, staff are breathless: they have had the opportunity to tell us this and to repeat it to us many times during our tour of France of hospitals. They and they can't take it anymore. And what answer do you bring? What does Professor Macron say about this? "Our health care system does not first suffer from a problem of underfunding. He sins by a real organizational handicap. There is no question of doing less" – still happy: we escaped it beautiful! "There is no question either, by ease" – by ease: some will appreciate it! –, "to say that it is enough to spend more to make it better. » It is clear from this example that the main objective is indeed the reduction of public expenditure. And the French, in one year, understood it, so that after hope came the mistrust. When you sweep our amendments from a back end, sometimes with irony or contempt, it is not only to us that you answer, it is also to the French and, among them, to the voters who believed in your promises. A second question is particularly dear to me. Does this budget really take spatial planning into account? The future of rural areas is essential. Moreover, it is not a question of opposing the urban world and the rural world, but of ensuring that both have the means to offer the French the choice of life to which they aspire. In a context of increasing metropolization, the place of territories outside large urban areas is an important issue for the future of our country. Decline, abandonment, closure of public services, but also and above all, I would say, quality of life, dynamism and renewal: collective representations related to rural areas are numerous and complex. If the problems are real, the countryside enjoys, at the same time, an undeniable attraction, in both urban and rural areas. I have borrowed this paragraph from the introduction of the excellent study carried out by the FIFG for Rural Families, as it seems to me to pose the challenge of spatial planning. Indeed, rural areas are an asset for the country; They deserve ambitious policies, respectful of their specificities, policies that trust the intelligence of the territories to recognize and enhance their potential. We need a large bill of guidance on rural areas. I called all the departments to raise their awareness. All or almost all of them have sent me back to the Department of Territorial Cohesion while everyone is directly concerned. And that is the problem: rather than trying to solve issues specific to their ministry, it is urgent to aggregate all these issues in a large law of orientation in order to feed a real project, a vision for rural territories – in complementarity, of course, and not in opposition to urban territories, where the politics of the city are prevailing. Housing and work-related issues in one territory must be the backbone of this urgent major project. It will therefore be a question of dealing with housing, services – health, education..., mobility, but also the economy, the professions of tomorrow, innovation, the location of activities... so as not to give in to the fantasy of concentration or this tendency of the big isbeautiful, which deny the realities of proximity. It is also about the topic of living together around the community fabric or the cultural offer. None of this can be found in this finance bill, on the contrary: a fall in the budget for territorial cohesion and an incomprehensible fall in the budget for employment in the context we know, not to mention agriculture, whose budget, which is also declining, is a very bad signal to farmers who are in doubt and who are for many faced with an unprecedented drought – as is the case in my department of Allier. Having found that this was a budget of injustices, it can therefore also be described as a budget of abandonment and abandonment – abandonment also of the ultramarine territories for which many special features, from a fiscal point of view, are now being questioned, causing many overseas elected officials to say various trends that they are being forced to finance their development by their own means. On this point, it is interesting to focus for a moment on the Court of Auditors' latest report on local public finances. The Court notes that the impact of the decline in the overall operating allocation was rapid and marked on investment expenditure, which fell by 11 % between 2013 and 2017. The Court also points to the persistence of large local disparities, including within each category of communities. Thus, within the communal bloc, the differences in evolution found by population strata suggest that the control of burdens is more difficult to obtain in small communities than in large intercommunal groupings, in particular metropolises and their member communes, which have more capacity for mutualization and a higher degree of integration. In the Court's view, the planned decline in these state financial assistance should take greater account of the levels of resources and burdens of communities, in order to individualize management efforts. This report, however very interesting, goes back to Article 13 of the Law on Public Finance Programming, which in 2018 places local government expenditure on a national target of up to 1.2% per year in value terms. The Court considers that this objective is ambitious if inflation, which has been recovering since 2017, is taken into account. To achieve this, operating expenditure is expected to decline from 2020 in real terms, i.e. net of rising prices. Is that reasonable? Is this especially tenable? This bleed must be repaired in communities. [[Smile]] The third important question for me, for us, is the ecological transition. Nicolas Hulot slammed the Government's door by denouncing a policy of small steps and the fact that the big stakes were not taken into account. Can you tell us, Minister, how this budget is changing in relation to the alarmist observation of the former minister of ecology, apart from an ecological tax that exceeds the acceptable level for citizens who have no choice, who are obliged to switch to the pump where the price of fuels goes from 1.60 to 1.70 euro? On Saturday, at an inauguration in a small village in my constituency, the mayor, with a bit of humor mixed with anger, said: "Before, I was afraid of emptiness, now I am afraid of fullness. » When we propose to add even one tax bracket to the tax scale, it is immediately an outcry. In fact, we are talking about confiscatory taxation. And there, it's not confiscatory, so important taxes for those who pay them? With everything we heard during the debate on the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet – EGALIM – we could expect strong measures for agriculture under the acronym of quality – well, no, nothing! Nothing about a major public energy service, nothing binding in this area for companies whose practices are not always very virtuous. This budget is therefore not a budget of anticipation either: it does not prepare the future in the face of the great challenges of the world. The polls are not in favour of the President of the Republic whose popularity rating has collapsed over the weeks since the beginning of the summer and even more so since the beginning of the year. Despite these many signs of discontent, the head of State camped on his certitudes and declared that he would not change course. The untenable suspense of the ministerial reshuffle fed the chronicle throughout the week after the departure of the interior minister returned to Lyon life. They try to make us believe that everything will be fine with a few new heads, but it reminds me of what I was saying, with his bourbon accent, after a change of minister of agriculture, a farmer for whom I was working: "I'm going to tell you, Mr. Dufrègne, we changed the bottle, but we didn't change what was in it! » Well, yeah, it doesn't matter if we change ministers if we don't change politics! And yet, and that is what motivates our motion to refer back to committee: if other choices are of course possible, they are first and foremost necessary. We made you proposals, you rejected them all. So I warn you: when you're too sure of yourself, you're not far from making one, if it's not already made... A referral to committee would correct this trajectory, which, as we can see, brings nothing to the country or to the French, except to a small minority of privileged people who can sleep on both ears – the house is well guarded. We can recover important resources that will enable us to put in place more socially, economically or environmentally virtuous policies. I have addressed the issue of taxes. Let's talk about personal income tax. We once again proposed that you review the progressivity by increasing the number of tranches and changing the rates, as was done not so long ago – niet! And yet the income tax is the fairest because progressive, precisely. It allows everyone to contribute according to their resources, although many mechanisms to reduce them exist and rather favour those who pay the most. Income tax also reduces wage disparities, but its product is too low compared to VAT, which is the most unfair tax since it affects consumption. That is why we propose to abolish VAT on essential products and to reduce its normal rate to 19%, as in Germany, a country that you often take as an example. We propose to stop pocketing consular chambers, such as the Chambers of Commerce and Industry – CCI – which you require to dismiss staff whose functions are useful for the development of the territories. We also propose to go back to the abolition of more than 4000 civil servants and thus to the gradual drying up of our public services. We propose to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which today deprives us of 60 to 80 billion euros, a major national cause. We propose to revisit the issues of purchasing power of assets and retirees. We propose to make reductions in social contributions conditional on social and environmental commitments. We propose to return to the privatization of several strategic companies such as Aéroports de Paris, La Française des jeux or Engie. I stop this inventory at the Prévert because it is in fact all your policies that need to be reviewed today. You are indeed leading the country into an impasse by strengthening the feeling of anger and relegation. Don't be surprised then that this feeling of abandonment, or even betrayal, leads us on paths that we thought were forever closed. To those who are in doubt, we say that we must never lose hope because a fight is never lost in advance. I have referred to several studies or press articles. I conclude by quoting the New Literary Magazine for the month of October, which I recommend for your reading, especially that of the very interesting dossier entitled "Capitalism no longer responds". In the preamble, this dossier sets the stage: has the capitalist system become uncontrollable? Its financial drift seems to have brought it out of reach of the warnings of experts as well as the regulation of states overtaken by the superpower of the GAFA – Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple. The frenetic enrichment of the richest to the detriment of the employees is widening a gap that could be its grave, especially if its unbridled quest for profit against ecology persists. To stop this mad race to the abyss, there remains the strength of reflections, opinions, movements that are envisioned against blind and deaf capitalism. I would like to conclude by having a special thought for the victims of the floods in Aude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u104	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u105	Of course, we will vote for this reference to the text in committee. Together with our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we make the same observation: this finance bill, like the previous one, is unfair and ineffective. Yes, the figures, whether from INSEE or other agencies, are stubborn. They were not found on a corner, such as the famous rule that the government deficit should not exceed 3% of gross domestic product. What do these numbers say? That poverty increases, that purchasing power is in a state of dullness, that unemployment stagnates, that the TPE-SME struggles. These figures also say that, no, nothing leaks away from gifts to the rich – 40 billion euros, I recall –, nothing, either in terms of investment or in terms of employment. Yes, public services are out of breath; especially those who make them live and keep them standing: teachers, caregivers, magistrates, police officers... We do not expect much from a referral to committee, as the ideological debate would require hours – we would probably even have to review the course of history – and so long as the single thought has prevailed. But perhaps we could benefit from the listening that you always intend to show; Perhaps, step by step, amendment after amendment, we could change certain aspects of this budget, towards more justice and in order to take greater account of the ecological challenge. That is why, I would stress, we will vote to refer the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u107	Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u108	We will vote to refer the text back to committee for at least three reasons, among all those developed by our colleague Dufrègne. He first recalled the usefulness of the tax and that we need a fairer, more progressive tax, a tax that really redistributes. This budget does not go the way, however, because it is based on the idea that public expenditure should be reduced at all costs, a reduction which is mainly to the detriment of the cohesion of the territories, of rural areas, of communities, of public services and of agriculture. So we need to discuss it further. It was also recalled that in terms of ecology you are only considering punitive taxation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u109	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u110	...which is not possible in the light of the evolution of the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. Finally, there is one reason why we should all have to vote on this motion: we are waiting for a major overhaul that will be followed by a general policy speech of which we do not know the content. That alone would make it appropriate to refer the text back to committee, which would allow us to debate it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u111	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u112	I wish to return to the message addressed to you by Mrs Véronique Louwagie concerning the drawing of lots for the defence of motions of procedure. We had lots in universities that were not very happy; I note that today the majority opposition group, which has one hundred and four Members, cannot stand up for any motion. I have nothing against multiple expressions, but, frankly, I regret and regret that the majority opposition group cannot defend one of the two motions tabled on a finance bill. In substance, of course, our analysis is not that of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, but we note, Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, that this budget is not up to your commitments. He does not incur any downsizing, and he does not control the debt – two elements that are, for us, essential markers. It still undermines the purchasing power of pensioners and families. This budget does not respect France's European commitments in the TSCG, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance. These evidences, which are very negative indicators for us, make it impossible for us to accept your finance bill as presented to us. In addition, it continues to widen inequalities to the detriment of rural life, and this must be seen over and over again. Finally, this draft budget for 2019 is sorely lacking impact assessment. We deplored in the Finance Committee that the impact of all the provisions you propose has not been measured. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote on the motion for referral to committee; It seems to us the least we can do is go back to working on this finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u113	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u114	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Our group has two reasons not to vote on the motion for referral to committee. First of all, it's no use! We have already spent days and nights discussing some 1100 amendments in committee, and there will be 2200 in public sittings: we will be served! Secondly, we cannot refer the budget back to committee on the grounds that we are not spending enough, while we are defending the argument that the Government is not saving enough – I will explain this at length this evening to those of you who are still in the Chamber. We will therefore vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u115	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u116	According to the lawyer Gaston Jèze, a great democrat and liberal in the political sense, the budget is "essentially a political act". The challenges of this Government's responsibility go far beyond our borders. The aim is to adapt to European and international economic developments, through structural reforms to modernise policies, as well as through sincere and credible results-oriented forecasts and budgetary choices. The budgetary drift has long been to sprinkle here and there, to satisfy a little everyone, moderately and in the short term, but this finance bill for 2019 prefers to choose high priorities to control time and change. Beyond reducing the debt of the State and its excessive dependence on expenditure, this budget concentrates on the essentials, in order to better prepare for the future. National education and defence policies, which are the primary guarantors of our country's place in the world, are strongly and sustainably supported, after being mistreated for too long. This is a strong commitment, as is the major investment plan for the ecological transition. Preparing for the future also means freeing businesses, work and households taxably. The strategy assumed is that of burden relief. In concrete terms, this will be true with the second instalment of the housing tax for 80% of taxpayers, with the full effect of reducing unemployment and sickness contributions, and with the exemption of overtime from social contributions from September 2019. This budget will also mark the launch of the poverty plan and the health plan, whose ambitions are recognised by all associations, as well as a strong increase in social benefits for the most vulnerable. The ambitious preparations for the future are not made at the cost of declining the protection of the most modest. On the contrary, here too, the strategy focuses on change and results rather than on the preservation of acquired rights, in order to break with immobilism and social determinism. We will therefore not vote on the motion for referral back to committee, because we believe in democratic debate, and we, like all colleagues in the majority, aspire to individual and collective emancipation, solidarity and protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u117	Mrs Valérie Rabault, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u118	Our group will vote in favour of the motion to refer the matter back to committee, because we agree with some of the points raised concerning increasingly important breaches of national policies. Beyond social breakdowns, I am thinking of territorial breakdowns. The national vote of certain measures by the majority thus has an extremely different impact on the departments. I am thinking about fuel taxes or the impact of the CSG's increase. Studies have, for example, shown this year very significant differences in the impact of the partial abolition of the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u120	When we add together all these measures and their consequences, we find that for some departments this results in a cumulation of negative effects, whereas for others this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u122	This aspect of the policies implemented by the majority is absolutely not understood by the impact assessment which is content with a national vision without taking into account the territorial effects,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u124	... even though some are very negative. We believe that this territorial vision is extremely important. A number of institutes, such as OFCE, have carried out a departmental analysis of the policies implemented. I regret that the Government has not adopted this approach, even though the Court of Auditors is beginning to do so by publishing maps that take into account the impact of the measures taken by departments. For that reason, we will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u125	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u126	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 19 Against 56
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u127	In the general debate, Mrs Sabine Rubin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u128	Minister, no surprise with this PLF for 2019: it is part of the strict continuity of the previous budget, even though the Government's communication has evolved. Today, one no longer boasts the merits of runoff theory, but one claims the choice of work. Now, I'm going to try to demonstrate this, after a 2018 budget of fiscal attractiveness for finance and capital, you don't favour in 2019 neither labour, nor purchasing power, nor employment, but still and again big companies. You persist in your choice of fiscal policy while the evidence of its inefficiency is legion and inequality is widening. Between 2017 and 2018, we saw a sharp drop in compulsory levies from 45.4% to 44% of GDP. How did you do that? By making the ultra-rich pay less taxes in order, in your opinion, to release the energies of the first ropes and cause runoff on the rest of the population. Thus, the abolition of the ISF allowed the ultra-rich to earn around 15,000 euros per million capital. It is still the richest 10% who have benefited two thirds of the implementation of the single flat-rate levy. The latter thus profited from the bounty and were paid in dividends rather than wages, which represented a real loss of profits for the State. Similarly, the corporate tax rate will increase from 33 per cent to 25 per cent, resulting in more and more profit without compensation in terms of jobs or investments. Yet, oddly enough, purchasing power has declined by 0.6% since the beginning of 2018, the largest decline since 2012. Household savings increased by 0.6 percentage points in the fourth quarter of 2017, while household consumption decreased by 0.39 percentage points in the first quarter of 2018. I went to look at growth and unemployment, thinking about the benefits of your policy, but, as I said earlier, the figures are stubborn. Our growth, estimated at about 1.8%, is lower than that of the euro area. In France, it grew by 0.3% while the growth of the euro area outside France was +0.9 percentage points in the first half of 2018 – 70% of this difference is due to the decline in purchasing power I have just mentioned. In France, the unemployment rate rose by 0.2 percentage points in the first quarter of 2018. Our country has 5621000 jobseekers, all categories, i.e. an unemployment rate of 3.4 percentage points above the average of the unemployment rates of the most developed countries. Similarly, rising prices tend to catch up with rising wages, thus reducing household purchasing power by 0.4 percentage points over the same period, thereby reducing their consumption. This, of course, affects growth as consumption accounts for about 55% of GDP. I would like to point out that this price increase is not "virtuous" because it is not the logical consequence of wage increases, but rather the result of international factors, such as changes in the price of the barrel of oil, or of national taxation, with, for example, increases in tobacco taxes. You can't even respect your sacrosanct European budget treaties! The High Council for Public Finance stressed in its opinion published at the end of September that "the structural adjustments planned for 2018 and 2019 [...] do not comply with the rules of the "preventive arm" of the Stability Pact". But it could not be otherwise, given that you have persisted in a policy that has been applied for some 15 years now by the previous governments to which Mr Bruno Le Maire already belonged! On 24 September, in the Finance Committee, the latter took part in a debate on the innovative nature of the economic policy pursued by the Government since the beginning of the mandate, the famous supply policy: "I note that previous policies have not allowed us to have a high level of growth, have not allowed us to get out of massive debt, have even accelerated the country's massive debt, and have not allowed us to lower taxes. I think it is time to try a different policy, which is a policy of supply. » I don't know who Le Maire wants to convince with this statement, since he and some of his friends were already implementing a policy to improve the competitiveness of companies – another way to name supply policy – in the Fillon government in 2008. Should we also recall that the current President of the Republic was Minister of Economy and Finance during the Dutch quinquennium, which did not change anything? In reality, the policy pursued today by the executive has been in line with that of more than ten years – and again, I am short. The aim is to reduce the price of labour, now referred to as the "cost of labour", to reduce business and corporate taxes, to reduce public expenditure and to simplify standards and administrative formalities. So when you talk about the ineffectiveness of previous economic policies, it is in reality your own work that you are denigrating. This is, to say the least, a mixed assessment of the Government's policy: by constantly reducing demand, by participating in the financialization of the economy, by refusing to invest more heavily in the ecological transition, we can only animate growth that is already very weak. For, frankly, as you say to the satisfaction that your government favours work, it is the richest of our compatriots who benefit first and foremost from the tax broads of your legislative action. I am just taking on board the recent findings of the Institute of Public Policy, published last Thursday, detailing the fiscal and social measures of the first two budgets of the Macron era. And the fact is overwhelming: the cumulative effects of the reforms carried out in 2018 and those you intend to carry out in 2019 certainly translate into an income increase of almost 6%... but for just 1% of the population. As Pierre Mendès France summarized, "governing is choosing"; Your choice, that of austerity, endorses a policy of complacency towards the ultra-rich. I shall take here only one example, already mentioned and, to say the least, eloquent: the CICE. Despite the most limited efficiency in terms of job creation, the CICE strikes the state budget heavily: nearly 20 billion euros evaporate each year, mainly captured by large companies. But in this PLF, the bill will be doubled: in addition to the 20 billion due for the previous year, it has 20 billion less revenue for the state budget with the permanent reduction in social contributions. And yet this policy does not solve the crisis in our country: the Institute of Public Policy admits itself unable to "demonstrate that these measures, which are very concentrated on very high incomes, have major incentive effects on investment and employment". On the other hand, there are many French and French people who suffer from austerity policies that have been in place for almost a decade: in 2016, some 8 million of our citizens lived below the poverty line, i.e. on less than 1026 euros per month. Your majority, in the interests of communication, is getting used to this 2019 PLF by a 6% reduction in household taxes. But, as Éric Coquerel pointed out, this figure must be put into perspective, which skilfully confuses measures already adopted last year, such as the housing tax, and others, such as the reduction in social contributions, which are not covered by the PLF but by the PLFSS. In this small game, we must then correct this drop in contributions by integrating at the same time the drastic cut in social benefits: budgetary rigour will weigh on the APL, the retirement pensions, the family allowances, the disability benefits.... According to the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques économiques – OFCE – this brings these reliefs not to 6, but to 3,5 billion euros, and this when you know perfectly well that social benefits, far from costing a "crazy money" by leaving the poor people, considerably reduce the social divide that is going through our country. According to the Ministry of Health, social benefits reduce the poverty rate to 14 per cent; Without them, it would now turn at around 22 per cent. Almost a quarter of our population would live below the poverty line, but that doesn't seem to interest anyone! And if we look on the side of tax relief for businesses, it is the same logic that governs this new PLF: a reduction in corporate tax, albeit modest – from 33,3 to 31% – but which would only affect profits of more than €500,000, and whose impact will therefore be zero for SMEs which suffer from the economic situation. As our Republic collapses, our social fabric sluggish and social inequalities explode, your government is under an obligation once again to carry out dark cuts in the various missions, damaging a little more public services already very badly. We will discuss this again during the examination of the second part of the PLF, but I would like to stress that. You will always be able to go through the credit increases: it is a pass-pass that does not take into account inflation or population growth, which mechanically leads to an increase in needs. It is enough to take the trouble of considering the missions that suffer as a priority from this austere carcan to understand that once again it is the popular and middle classes that will serve as the adjustment variable. The first to suffer from this bleed is the "Work and employment" mission, which guarantees our social cohesion, which will lose 2 billion euros between 2018 and 2019. This means in concrete terms that you will continue to reduce the number of aided contracts, which are currently essential. A recent Senate report pointed to the very heavy impact of their drastic abolition on associations, communities, but also on EHPADs. But your majority also tackles the "cohesion of territories" budget, down 8.4%, which includes housing – while you have just endorsed the ELAN law, which sounds like the key to our social housing policy. Another example of your ideological blindness is the nearly 11% drop in funding for the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission, while a recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – IPCC – alerts us to the dramatic effects of global warming. The ecological transition should be a major challenge for all groups, regardless of their nuances, in terms of both the interests of farmers and the health of consumers. And if you could, at the beginning of the quinquennium, stuff your speeches with a progressive makeup, it is a marker that perfectly illustrates your stubbornness to undo our state and our public services: the suppression of still and ever more public servants. As a result, you are about to remove an additional 4200 posts, three times more than last year. Yet another fiscal policy is possible: a policy of social justice and equal distribution of wealth, which is also aimed at combating global warming. The current tax structure only slowly destroys the consent to tax, especially when our fellow citizens find, after business, that some avoid paying for their participation in the nation by playing with the laws. For our part, we propose to increase from five to fourteen tax brackets, so that those with few pay less and those with many pay more; We will resubmit this amendment. Thinking, unlike you, that the burden of taxation should not rest on the most precarious, we propose to exempt from VAT the domestic use of water. It is a political axis, but we are here to make politics and not accounting! We also propose to ensure that the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home benefits those who really need it and not the powerful ones who employ a driver. The new minister of ecological transition claims to be ecological pragmatism. Far from the major speeches, we offer you concrete actions, proposing to stop the reimbursement of commercial air kerosene, to remove tax niches benefiting road transport and pick-up owners, and to reduce VAT on public passenger transport. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I hope, moreover, that this budget will once again be the subject of a genuine democratic debate and that the opposition will be heard and respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u130	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u131	We are therefore approaching the budget for 2019 – president of the rich, year II. Coluche said "the rich will have food, the poor with appetite." Unfortunately, it's true with you. Yes, with your policy, the rich are satisfied and the poor can always look at the menu. Finally, rather than the poor, I should rather say pensioners, employees, young people, sportsmen, artists, traders, nurses, school teachers – in short, many people. To the rich, you gave 12 billion euros last year: you gave them a gift from the ISF, you capped 30 % of their financial income, you offered them the end of the dividend tax, the reduction of the tax on financial transactions, the reduction of the corporate tax... Don't throw any more, the basket is full! It is so full, this cup of the winners of CAC 40, that you thought it would end up being seen. So to the poor – to the workers, to the smicards, to a few pensioners – you distributed a few crumbs: 10 euros per one, 5 euros per one. And as Jacques Brel sang in his song Why did they kill Jaurès? , it would probably have to say thank you – "Yes, not' Sir, yes not' good Master"! The rich will eat to their hunger, yes, and the poor will have appetite. To the richest, you will give 86000 euros on average. This is the result of a study published last Friday by the Institute of Public Policy. The purchasing power of the richest 0.1% will grow by 86000 euros per year on average! That is the reality of your policy. The others, what will they win? Thirty euros more for those with the minimum old age – and again, by the end of the quinquennium – and you expect their pension to be up to 900 euros below the poverty line. The same applies to those who receive the disabled adult allowance: millions of people, in sum, whom you have planned to keep below the poverty line. And there are those 300,000 retirees who will have the immense privilege of benefiting from a corrective measure offsetting the sharp rise in CSG that they have had to endure. Three hundred thousand pensioners out of 14 million: sir is too good! Of course, it can be said that these are advances, but it is so small in relation to the needs, and to what has been granted to the richest families in our country! The 358 000 richest taxpayers, who previously paid the tax on wealth, have seen this tax disappear – they whose taxable assets are, according to a report we have received, 1028 billion euros. If we were to restore the ISF, they would have enough to see the happy days coming! In 2019, you will even double the gift package to companies: 20 billion under the 2018 CICE and 20 billion in relief from long-term expenses; 20 plus 20, that's 40 billion euros paid to businesses. In total, social contribution relief, which already amounted to EUR 48 billion in 2018, will therefore amount to more than EUR 60 billion from 2019 onwards. Sixty billion, paid to companies without any consideration! It's not cheese and dessert, it's cheese, dessert and pear-cognac! 'Cause across the street, what do we see? Wages that don't increase. Of course, they climb a little with the drop in contributions, but it is a real laugh, an increase in trompe-l'oeil that really does not deceive anyone and especially the employees. Ask them what they think of their purchasing power, of the drop in contributions which should supposedly make them gain 10 to 15 euros: they will tell you about the increase in the rates of the mutual companies. Ask them about the increase in gasoline or tobacco, ask them what they think about the bills that are increasing because of your policy. In total, the balance may be 4 or 5 euros on the payroll, but how much less for the family budget? Employees, already underpaid, won't earn anything with your tax pass tricks. The string is a little too big! In fact, if: you still offer them to earn more – by working more. But go tell the workers of the industry who sort like poor devils, broken by work, worn out on assembly lines! They work thirty-five hours a week on infernal shifts, day, night, weekend. Thirty-five hours a week, eight hours a day, with twenty-six minutes of break divided in three times: whoever wants to fly must raise his hand! That's how things happen on the assembly lines. Go tell them, those who work like this, that we're going to have to work more! Go tell Bridgestone employees in Bethune, who today received a letter from their management informing them that they will have to make competitive efforts: to work more, without earning more! These workers, I meet them very often in my region: they earn 1200 or 1300 euros a month, with their twenty years of seniority and outstanding professional expertise. They're brave, hard to hurt, proud of what they're doing. But you despise them by your words, offering them a few more euros for extra liters of sweat! You always tell us that, nevertheless, we have to think about the removal of the housing tax. That's the big deal. Yes, that's true, it will be for families a gain of purchasing power. In two years... But how much more will they have to cover? The debate on municipal taxes is also revealing. The decrease in allocations to the municipalities, and their subsequent freezing, resulted in increases in local taxes, including the property tax and the housing tax. Transportation and education costs have also increased, not to mention health costs, the remainder of which have never been so high. In the Hauts-de-France, we beat the records: 575 euros left on health charges, per year and per person! This is in addition to the cost of mutuals, which varies from 90 to 150 euros per month. Make the calculation: for a couple, the rest of the cost of health care is about 1000 euros; the increase in land ownership, 10 to 20 euros; the increase in the price of petrol, about 500 euros, for a person who goes to work by car; not to mention the increase in energy bills... Never will the removal of the housing tax compensate for all these increases! No, minister, we don't live in the same world. I'm telling you, the French are losing purchasing power! Under these conditions, while inflation is rising, your choice not to increase pensions and wages and to freeze social benefits such as housing subsidies or family allowances is dramatic. In view of the needs, labour policy and agricultural policy should be given priority. Yet they too will suffer from your political choices: their means will be reduced. Unpublished choices, breaking with previous years, posts will even be abolished in national education, as well as in the Ministry of Finance, where 2,300 posts will disappear in 2019 – while we must fight hard against tax fraud, guarantee the territorial mesh of cash and fight trafficking of all kinds. In the social and health field, the figures absolutely deny the announcement effects of the "health plan": 5.7 billion euros of savings are programmed on social expenditure in 2019, including 3.8 billion for health insurance and 900 million for hospitals. Yet our country is rich! It is possible to do otherwise, because we have the necessary means to carry out policies of human progress, at the service of the greatest number, in breach of your choices which benefit only a minority of privileged people. Yes, it is possible to combine economic development, human progress and ecological challenge: these will be the cardinal values that we will defend in the context of the review of this finance bill. Work must pay, without leading to the impoverishment of social security, which is a common good that we must preserve and sustain. In contrast to reductions in social contributions, we prefer the increase of the SMIC, the index point of civil servants and pensions. Not only are these increases expected by our citizens, but they are necessary for the good health of our economy. As my colleagues have said, the problem is not the cost of labour but the cost of capital. Is France not the undisputed champion of the world's dividend distribution? The tax instrument must provide the necessary corrective measures for social cohesion: tax escalation must be guaranteed and strengthened. We will therefore propose, by amendment, a better progressivity of the corporate tax, while your uniform reduction will mainly benefit the larger companies. Finally, in the face of globalized financial capitalism in which nation-states are overtaken by multinationals, we must adapt taxes, especially corporate taxes, which are now marginalized. We will therefore propose a tax of the twenty-first century on these multinationals, which have no face, no country, in order to make them contribute to their just measure. It is time to put a stop to tax practices by which these companies disregard borders and escape the financing of public action by postponing the tax burden on the least favoured. We will propose that you levy tax at source on the profits of multinationals which set up their headquarters in low-tax countries. This formula exists elsewhere: we can adapt it to France. We need new resources, not only to reduce inequalities, but also to meet the climate, ecological challenge. The reports, like the one published by the IPCC last week, show that we continue to look elsewhere as our house burns. But how do you want to meet the climate challenge with 14 million French people living below the poverty line, with 11 million employees at SMIC and communities on the edge of asphyxiation? Meeting this challenge requires a revolution and an effort by all! To pretend that everyone has the means to afford a gas-driven car, a low-consumption house and an eco-friendly heating, is hypocrisy! Don't you think everyone would rather go shopping in organic stores, eat organic chicken produced in short circuit? But it costs more than Auchan! And do you think that all communities can invest in a 21st century waste plant without costing the household? Do you think they can invest in free public transport without increasing the transport payment? Yes, it requires a change of culture, an economic, cultural and social revolution. But we need to build the capacity to enable the French, our communities, to invest in green housing or free transportation. But you're doing the opposite! Minister, last year, at the same time, you decided to reduce the energy transition tax credit on the grounds that it would be replaced on 1 January 2019 by a more agile, ambitious and efficient direct aid scheme. What did we learn in mid-September, just a few days after Nicolas Hulot left the ministry of ecology? The delay of one year of this measure, too complex to implement, even when you are "champion of the Earth". Yet the planet can no longer wait! In fact, we would need to invest between EUR 10 and 20 billion each year in order to achieve the green shift that is needed for us today. Yes, it takes courage, and – let things be said – it requires breaking with this terrible race for competitiveness. Faced with the environmental emergency, there is no alternative, as the other said. We must train, invest, incentivise, reward and structure industrial sectors, set up innovative mechanisms to finance investment projects, supported by a public bank that would be the State's ecological and social arm in all our territories. At the key, it's jobs and activities that will be created, it's a certainty. Much too attached to saving the big groups, you put the financing of this transition almost exclusively on households: this is what has been seen with the increase in fuel taxation. That is not acceptable. This can even have a disastrous effect: the ecological transition must take place in social justice, otherwise it is to be feared that it will not take place. Minister, our proposals are on the table: they will be debated during our discussions. We propose targeted reductions in VAT and greater taxation on the most polluting modes of transport. Above all, we propose that major groups contribute to their environmental impact, with a view to financing a national ecological transition fund. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, the Communist Members and the GDR Group will participate in these budgetary discussions constructively. We have tabled more than 50 ambitious and pragmatic amendments, amendments on the priority issues in our view: social justice and the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u132	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u133	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u134	For the second year in a row, the proposed finance bill marks two major breaks with the past. First, this budget is at the exclusive service of an ambition that embraces and exceeds it: the transformation in depth and without equivalent for decades in our country, at the heart of the political promise that the President of the Republic and our majority have made to the French. Secondly, each of the finance laws has a piece that is played in five acts to restore our great balances: to reduce spending, to reduce taxes, to reduce deficits, to reduce debt, but to increase in proportion the confidence, seriously undermined, of our compatriots in public action!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u135	That's your goal. He's not sure you could make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u136	The parliamentary group The Republic on the move welcomes the fact that, despite a somewhat less favourable economic context, the Government has not abandoned anything for 2019 of the demanding principles that inspired its budgetary strategy for 2018. This is over, definitely, from the budgets announced by the right as well as by the left with great communication reinforcement; of these budgets supposed to represent a turning point but which hardly masked the political betrayals, the little insinuating calculations, the sets of accounting pass-passes; of these budgets whose pitiful execution contrasted with the flattering presentation. In concrete terms, what do we want to succeed? We want work in France to pay, to increase the production of wealth, and to finance, other than through tax and debt, the protections that we owe to all our compatriots, especially the most fragile. The increase in the volume of employment in our country is at least as crucial as the restoration of our public finances: indeed, the two objectives are inextricably linked. On this front, do not dislike the sorrowful minds, the first results are there. Our employment rate this year is 65.8%: this is a record rate, never seen since the early 1980s. One million CDIs were signed in the second quarter: this is also a record since 2000. Finally, 5400 jobs were created in industry, which had been systematically destroying them for 16 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u137	Thank you François!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u138	We need to accelerate this momentum. The 2019 Finance Act will contribute to this by pursuing four strategic objectives. The first is to educate and train the French, to prepare for the future: for this, we will invest €1.2 billion in education, higher education and research, and €2.5 billion in training the unemployed and young people. It is then a question of producing, by restoring the investment and rewarding the work: 4 billion euros of expenses will disappear for all the employees. The abolition of overtime wage charges alone will bring in EUR 200 per year for an employee at the SMIC, or 11% more per hour worked. It is also a question of emancipation, by giving the French the means to carry out their projects, with the end of the impasse of contracts assisted in favour of the career paths skills, accompanied by real training, leading to sustainable jobs; with a sharp rise in the premium of activity, which guarantees the maintenance and pride in employment; with the investment of 1 billion euros in the ecological transition of our transports; with the financing of 130,000 housing units per year for young people and the most vulnerable. Finally, it is about sharing the value and fruits of growth and protecting our most fragile citizens: that is the objective of the PACTE bill. This is also the aim of the sharp increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities – 40 euros more per month as of November 2019, after an increase of 50 euros per month last year – and of the minimum old age – 30 euros more in January, after an increase of 35 euros last May. Finally, the role of our parliamentary group during these debates can be summed up in two words: support and demand. Minister, you will be able to count on our majority to keep with you the course set by the President of the Republic. On several topics, however, our group wants to enrich your finance bill. We will propose to add new provisions, to refine their provisions and even to correct their defects, in order to facilitate their acceptance by our compatriots without distorting their object. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the budgetary debate begins, a democratic debate for which Parliament was invented, we hope that this debate, beyond the political differences that are natural and even healthy, will be marked by a constructive spirit. As far as it is concerned, the La République en marche group will stick to this line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u139	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u140	Eighteen months after the presidential election, the second budget presented to us attests to the unrelenting failure of the majority's economic policy. Despite the favourable growth of the beginnings of the quinquennium, the Government has refused to lead the necessary cuts in public spending while increasing the tax burden, which is now crushing households. At the opening of the sitting, I heard Minister Bruno Le Maire say that arrangements would be put in place for this by the end of the term, but we are already in the second budget, and there is no measure! While the first finance law had already resulted in a considerable reduction of 4.5 billion euros in the purchasing power of the French and had not produced any positive effects on the activity, the deterioration of the economic health of our country has reached a worrying climax: today, all the economic seers are in the red, testifying to the magnitude of the errors. When the Government came to power, however, it benefited from a providential economic cycle with GDP growth of 2.3 per cent in 2017. Unfortunately, the President of the Republic, intoxicated by this surge in revenue, has failed to implement the reforms necessary for the sustainability of this dynamic. Faced with an expected decrease of 0.6 percentage points, it is clear that the 1.7% growth forecast for 2019 puts France behind Europe, 0.2 percentage points below the average envisaged for the euro area. But the consequences of government uncertainty are not limited to the missed rendez-vous of growth: culminating in 98.5% of GDP at the end of 2017, our public debt is unsustainable and does not decrease. Minister Bruno Le Maire has admitted that we are doing less well than our neighbours. As France prepares to dilapidate €40 billion in 2019 to pay interest rates that could increase further, this colossal slate poses a huge risk on the shoulders of future generations. However, the increase in public spending of €25 billion planned for 2019 and the 0.7% increase in volume expenditure prove that the Prime Minister has not fully taken full measure of the urgency of the situation. On the contrary, the expected deterioration of the government deficit to 2.8% for 2019 is a first since 2008. And yet, the Government practices self-satisfaction! In fact, the budget for the coming year is a policy of illusionism based on massive transfers from one's pocket to another, and I will demonstrate that. In essence, the removal of the housing tax, amounting to EUR 20 billion, must be seen for what it is: a transfer from the local taxpayer to the national taxpayer. In the end, local spending will not evaporate and someone will have to pay the bill! Funded by debt, this masquerade is not a zero-sum game, but a negative-sum game designed to deceive the French. With regard to the 25 per cent increase in the CSG, which hit retirees at full speed this year, it is an unworthy measure that conceals a huge transfer of purchasing power between assets and those which the Government considers inactive. Only 300,000 retirees will benefit from the exemption granted by the existing power to the most modest of our seniors. Should it be recalled that the more than 7 million remaining pensioners did not steal a pension acquired from the sweat of their forehead? At the end of this non-exhaustive record of your illegible and unjust fiscal policy, Minister, it is more urgent than ever to protest against a policy of transfers that divides the French. Because that's what this is about. The economy is above all confidence. But division is the opposite of trust. The climate of uncertainty generated by a policy that only takes one to give back to the other undermines the morale of the French and slows down consumption, the engine of growth. Yet, measures exist to stem this leak forward, but you do not hold them back. On the contrary, just with the levy at source, it is more than 2 billion euros that will be collected, as income tax, in the pocket of the French in 2019. And I will not detail the measures to implement the levy at source: we know the French will receive advance payments, tax credits, tax reductions, with adjustments the following year.... In short, this reform is Complexity on the move! In order to combat the continuous deterioration of the external trade deficit, which reached €62.7 billion in 2016, 15 billion more than in 2017, there is an urgent need to introduce a tax system that encourages the competitiveness of businesses in order to foster wealth creation. By continuing the effort to reduce corporate taxes, the Government is moving in the right direction but is not keeping track of the right course. We should do better, moving now to a 25 per cent corporate tax rate. And then the exceptional tightening of the last advance of corporate tax against large companies, provided for in Article 15, is a real flight forward. This is a helium swelling of budgetary revenues on the backs of companies in our country! And what an idea to want to remove the reduced rate of ICTPE for non-road diesel, which concerns many sectors! You wanted to bear the burden of a huge tax increase of almost 1 billion euros in 2019 on a few sectors, such as public works, chemistry or metallurgy! Of course, in the Committee on Finance, our tenacity has been right for the majority. Thus, rather than promoting our competitiveness by strengthening a number of favourable arrangements, you prefer to deceive the French with untenable promises because they are financed by debt. We, the Republicans, have, however, proposed measures that could dramatically boost the growth of our country. However, all these findings could be balanced if the Government kept its promise to return €6 billion of purchasing power to the French in 2019. Unfortunately for our compatriots, on this issue too, it hurts. The negative impact of government policy is estimated at 10.9 billion, from the increase in tobacco taxation, the increase in fuel taxes, the decrease in LPOs and the unindexed pensions and family benefits, which alone are responsible for a shortfall of €3 billion. Ultimately, at a thousand leagues of the Government's enchanting promises, your measures should reduce the purchasing power of the French by 300 million euros in the coming year! And what about the carbon trajectory voted last year, which weighed in 2018 on the purchasing power of the French, and which will continue to weigh? It should be remembered that a couple with two dependent children, heated in fuel oil and assuming conventional expenses of diesel oil, may see the amount of its energy taxes increase by 600 euros by 2022. Therefore, increasing the price of fuel by more than 30% as you do is a pure madness while the price of the barrel is blazing! It is the purchasing power of all French people who have no choice but to move by car that you sacrifice by pure ideology; It is really the rural territories that are affected. We will propose, throughout these debates, a series of measures to correct yours and really restore purchasing power in French, in priority to the middle classes that you keep puncturing. What about the EUR 54 million amputation of the local government budget, the amount allocated to the consequences of Hurricane Irma? If it seems to me legitimate to grant financial support to Saint-Martin – and in this regard I agree with the commitment of the President of the Republic – taking these 54 million from the budgets of the communities is unacceptable. In conclusion, it seems to me that this budget is not acceptable for a number of reasons. It is illegible, because of a policy of transfers that is inconsistent since you take in one pocket to return to the other. It is a draft because of an ever-changing timetable for implementing the measures, as we have seen, for example, with the increased relief on low wages carried over to 1 October when it was announced by 1 January. It is ineffective – economic results are deplorable. And he is unfair because he opposes categories of French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u141	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u142	However, you know that in order to reduce compulsory social and tax levies, we need to reduce public expenditure. You don't. That is why we will propose 20 billion savings over the year. And to boost growth, as the Republicans will propose, it would be necessary to support the competitiveness of our companies by acting on the trajectory of corporate tax, by reducing the CVAE, by phasing out production taxes, by challenging overtime and by reducing the wage burden to 3.5 SMIC. Again, you do not act in this direction. Finally, purchasing power should be restored to the French, through fairer measures: we will propose to reverse the unindexation of retirement pensions, family allowances and LPAs, to freeze the ICTPE in 2019 and also to lower the income tax to make the levy at the source neutral on purchasing power. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] See, Minister: The Republicans made proposals – last year, you said we didn't – and I have the feeling that they bother you. You caricature them, but we will have the opportunity to debate them because I think the French deserve an honest debate on all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u144	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u145	The finance bill that we are going to consider is continuing to implement the commitments made to the French by the President of the Republic. In the continuity of the 2018 budget, it reflects a political will to which the MPs of the Mouvement Démocrate and related groups give their full support: the desire for France to engage in the ecological transition; the desire to become a balanced development model combining entrepreneurial dynamism and societal responsibility; Finally, the desire for her to regain her full voice in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, while the nation is in mourning, struck in the middle of the night and in the heart by a deadly catastrophe, we cannot wait any longer. We can no longer close our eyes to the immense perils that climate change poses to our society, to our way of life. We can no longer resign ourselves to damaging the biodiversity of a planet we borrow from future generations. We can no longer remain deaf to the incessant calls for a profound change in our growth model. This new growth model of France is intended to swarm, serve as a reference and an example for the rest of the world. But our ability to impose our choices and our values, to influence the march of the world, is obviously due to the power of our economy, to the vivacity of our businesses. And as in echoing the songs of the Marche pour le climat processions that resonated last Saturday throughout France, this budget will sustainably green our taxation: the privileged tariffs to which certain polluting fuels benefit will be abolished; the circular economy will be encouraged; renewable energy projects will be supported by a sharp increase in budget allocations. In line with the PACTE bill, this finance bill will facilitate the transmission of businesses, a crucial step for our small and medium-sized enterprises to become mid-sized companies – should we remember that they are three times less numerous in France than in Germany? Like elsewhere, the flexibility of this transmission should allow our companies to grow as fast and as well as their neighbours. The MODEM and related groups are plebiscite all of these measures. We will propose to you to go further with a series of amendments aimed at the treatment of palm oil, the fight against the artificialisation of the soil and the age of the boats, or the development of biofuels and solar energy. The ecological transition will not be made against farmers, these workers of spring, of life, of seed sown and of the excavated furrow: they must be fully associated with our collective effort. We therefore very much welcome the creation of a single precautionary savings scheme that will enable them to overcome difficulties and hazards, or the amendment by the rapporteur-general on the transmission of long-term rural leases. Another major step forward in the PACTE law is the abolition of the social package for interest and participation in SMEs, a provision that we will examine in the framework of the PLFSS and which will allow employees to share the fruits of the country's new prosperity. Similarly, our group will support the over-amortization scheme for SMEs' investments in robotics and software: the time has come for them to enter the industry of the future. Our sovereignty lies in the power of our economy, but at the same time it lies in the strength of our social contract. Economic efficiency and prosperity only make sense when they serve as the foundation for social justice and fraternity. That is why the world of associations must be recognized, supported and encouraged, the activities of self-help, the gift and solidarity forming the cement of our society in the coming world. The MODEM Group has therefore had amendments adopted in committee, which will be presented again at the meeting. Similarly, because we believe that the family is the primary place of solidarity, we will again propose that you review the developments in the previous quinquennium in terms of family policy. In order to regain its voice in Europe, France must demonstrate its ability to contain its debt and deficits: five points of public debt, three points of public expenditure and one point of compulsory levies, that is the objective that you have set, Minister. After taking the country out of the excessive deficit procedure, for the third year in a row you are presenting us with a deficit below 3%, which is a first in twenty years, while continuing the energisation of public accounts and launching structural projects which will have to be amplified in the next few years, without however compromising the purchasing power of French and French who saw in this month of October lower the housing tax as well as social contributions but increase the premium of activity. But in Europe there will not be without fiscal harmonisation: that is why we welcome the progress made in this text, which brings the tax treatment of patents, groups of companies and financial costs into line with that of our European partners. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support the amendments adopted in committee to adjust these developments to the situation of French companies. Ladies and gentlemen, trust in our institutions and consent to tax will only be restored once we have demonstrated that public money is being used properly. Last January, the President of the Republic expressed the hope that Parliament could better evaluate public policies. It is in this spirit that you, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, convened last June, for the first time, the Spring of Evaluation. Among the motions for resolutions that emerged from it, that of our colleagues in the Republic on the Marche called for a general review of low-yield taxes. I would therefore like to express our full satisfaction to you, Minister, that you have responded to this call, with the removal of five inefficient tax expenditures and twenty-two low-yield taxes, as well as with the revision of tax credits and VAT at reduced rates for the overseas countries and territories. All these measures are in line with the same logic: that of budgetary choices, which have all the consequences of the systematic evaluation of our public policies. But the evaluation work must also find its full place in advance of the passing of laws. However, this year again, our debates in committee have highlighted the glaring lack of figures and evaluation of budget texts. It is in a certain darkness that we draw up and discuss our amendments. So it is in some darkness that we are looking at the finance bill. The time has come to shed light on our debates. This year, for the first time, the Finance Committee of the National Assembly commissioned analytical notes on the main measures of this budget from four independent research laboratories. They are rich in teaching, for example, that the CICE's shift to lower costs will create jobs and benefit small and start-ups, as well as the non-profit sector. But we obviously need to go further. The nation here must be able to vote in the light of specific assessments. Tools exist. Other major democracies have seized it by setting up parliamentary evaluation agencies. It is up to us to take this into account in our turn: I therefore appeal to the President of the National Assembly to continue the efforts of many parliamentarians on all levels. I also appeal to your benevolence, Minister, so that our assembly can soon also mobilize the data collected by the administrations under your control. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our debates and after enriching it, we will be forced to vote solemnly on the year II budget for the five-year term of the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcome the fact that it reflects our collective ambition to engage the country, irreversibly, on the path of ecological transition, economic and social prosperity, the balance of public finances and the re-foundation of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u146	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u147	The years follow each other and are similar. We are entering the budget period, and with it there are a number of challenges. First of all, public spending must be reduced – this should be the real anchor of a responsible budget – by presenting concrete and structural measures with the aim of lastingly rehabilitating France's public finances. There is a need to restore purchasing power to households, in which the misunderstanding and feeling of injustice in the face of the Government's policy continues to grow every day. Companies must be supported in innovation and given the means to invest to revive the confidence our entrepreneurs have lost. So many goals among others that this 2019 finance bill does not fulfill, to my great despair, in any way. Mr Minister, you did, however, announce structural measures to save money and increase revenues. If the original intention was commendable, I'm afraid you've drowned in the midst of your inconsistencies and approximations. Your budget is simply illegible, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance recalled earlier. The reality is that it presents a conglomerate of conductive wireless measuring devices, a scrambled message, in the image of the policy you are leading. However, you are aware that once again, all the indicators for 2019 are bad, and that at European level France is distinguished by the mediocrity of its results. At the end of the summer, forced by the reality that was needed, the Government reduced its growth forecast for 2018 from 1.9 per cent to 1.7 per cent, resulting in a deterioration of its 2018 deficit forecast from 2.3 per cent to 2.6 per cent of GDP. Very concretely, therefore, the government deficit would almost not decrease in 2018: it would even deteriorate in 2019, for the first time since 2009, year of a completely different economic context. This is, very concretely, a very sad record, Minister. As for the structural effort, i.e. the improvement of the non-conjunctural balance, it appears to be largely inadequate. Almost zero in 2018, the decrease would be 0.3 points in 2019, or even 0.2 points, according to the High Council for Public Finance. The latter adds that France would not have started reducing its debt-GDP ratio by 2019, unlike almost all European countries. Again, minister, sad record. The level of our public debt is unsustainable and the strategy proposed to address it inefficiently. In addition to ruining the favourable period at the beginning of this quinquennium, instead of assuming its responsibilities, the Government continues to wager dangerously on better days. As you will know, the fight to reduce spending is not a blush of opposition, but the cornerstone of our sovereignty, the competitiveness of our companies and the purchasing power of the French. What can we see in the budget for 2019? An increase of almost €25 billion in public expenditure, an increase of 15% over one year in the colossal amount that the state will be forced to borrow, i.e. €228 billion, and an increase in the debt burden, from €41.7 billion in 2018 to €42.1 billion in 2019, not to mention the risk of an increase in interest rates. The reality is that ministerial spending is on the rise overall and that the decline in the number of public employees is far from meeting the challenges, while at the same time – a dedicated expression – cuts are being made in housing or employment missions, for example. The policy of plankling therefore continues. The search for some residual savings is again on the back of the French. After the increase of the CSG of 25% in 2018, they have to cope with the unindexing of pensions and LPAs and the increase in fuel prices at the pump. Retirees suffer the non-compensation of the increase in the CSG, not to mention the terrible inequalities caused by the abolition of the housing tax. Do not try to make us believe that purchasing power will increase by 6 billion euros: all this is wrong and you know it. The compulsory levies exceed 1000 billion: they were already 1038 billion in 2017, and will amount to 1070 billion in 2019. Unrighteousness is there, and it is exhilarating. Emmanuel Macron's appointment with the French is therefore missed, while the unstable international context alerts us to an upcoming complexity of the situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The budgetary reality, Minister, resists your communication efforts, and keeps us away from all the promises of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u148	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u149	After a fiscally unfair and economically and socially inefficient 2018 budget, the time for the 2019 budget came in the autumn. As soon as it was presented to the Council of Ministers, a heated controversy arose over the amount of tax gifts made to French households. Will they, as the Government claims, amount to 6 billion, or, as the OFCE says, to 3.5 billion? The French, who do not live in this macro-economic universe, have nothing but to do with this dispute of experts: what they look at is their purchasing power. With this 2019 budget, will it increase or decrease? The decryption of the budget language is not simple, because while compulsory levies have a direct and visible impact on purchasing power, the impact of factors such as social benefits and the rate of inflation should not be overlooked. So, in this battle of numbers, who's right? If all parameters are taken into account, with an inflation assumption of 1.4%, it is clear that OFCE is possible. The impact of the social and tax measures of the 2019 budget will ultimately be 3.5 billion euros, and if supplementary pensions are taken into account, it could even fall to 2.1 billion euros. So we are far from the 6 billion. The major change in State and social security budgets is the unindexing of pensions, housing allowances, family allowances, adult disability allowance, supplementary disability allowance and the basic allowance for the young child's allowance. They will therefore no longer follow the rise in prices, which, very concretely, will lead to a further decline in the purchasing power of all pensioners and families who receive these solidarity allowances. In the great confusion of the most and the least, it is clear that it is the modest families that will suffer the heaviest puncture. The detailed study by the Institute of Public Policy, published last Thursday, does not say anything else: it shows that modest households will lose and the middle classes will be a little more successful, the great winners being, once again, in the last decile. That's the government's choice. A masked choice, but a clear choice to the right. A choice assumed by the President of the Republic, who said that he had not committed himself to purchasing power. Not sure the French understood it like that... You yourself, Minister Darmanin, at your press conference on the finance bill with Mr Le Maire, indicated that you wanted to restore purchasing power to the French. This year, you did not go so far as to publish a small Booklet of purchasing power: you did well, because the little yellow booklet remained in the throat of many of our fellow citizens. I now want to address, after the purchasing power of households, that of local authorities. The campaign on social media # BalanceTonMaire is truly scandalous, and I weigh my words. You were mayor, minister. Have you only once increased taxes to piss the government off? If you find a single mayor in France who did so in 2018, give me his name. In my commune, we have increased taxes, as in 6195 communes in France. Since 2014, this commune of 1600 inhabitants has seen its overall operating budget decrease by 51%, including in 2018, the year of stability of the overall envelope in which we still lost 10621 euros. So, because we want to maintain service to the population, and especially because we have already streamlined our spending, by not replacing retired or changing staff, we had to regrettably increase taxes, as in 2017. As you know, there are fewer municipalities in 2018 than in 2017 that increased their housing tax rate: 85% of the municipalities chose not to raise theirs. If this campaign of denigration has hints of populism, a populism that you claim to want to fight elsewhere, the French are not fooled. When you make election promises with others' wallets, that's what happens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u150	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u151	The words of some who stigmatize local elected officials are a very bad signal and aggravate the already strong crisis of confidence with the territories and their elected officials, at a time when trust should be restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u152	That's right, it's name and shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u153	We are in a decentralized Republic. It must remain so, which requires a permanent and sincere dialogue between the Government and local communities. It also means resuming trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u154	You're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u155	If I believe sections 23 and 26 of this finance bill, it is a very bad move. It is a mistake to have the exceptional aid of 50 million euros, promised by the State in Saint-Martin, paid by the communities. It is a mistake to have communities assume the presidential promise to extend the opening hours of municipal libraries. It is a mistake to go back to the financial pact with the regions, only one year after it was put in place. And having his promises financed by the poorest communities alone is a shame. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] It is still time, Minister, to correct the shot. The Socialist and Related Group has tabled amendments which are designed to restore trust with local elected representatives and to place equity at the heart of our tax system. I hope you can hear us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u156	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-15-O1017.u157	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the 2019 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
