ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on new business and new governance (No. 476 second rectified and No. 544).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us sets out the terms of a necessary debate. What is a company? What should its role and purpose be in the 21st century? What means can be used to achieve this goal? This debate could be technical and legal, dealing with the relationship between the economic concept of an enterprise, which has no legal existence, and the legal concept of a company, as derived from the civil code and the commercial code. But this debate goes far beyond this: it is a question of clarifying our approach, our conception of what constitutes the alpha and the omega of the growth and economy of our country; what occupies the days and, or, the nights of our millions of fellow citizens; that which actively participates in the emancipation of the individual, his well-being and development in society, whether he owns a company, directs it, works there, aspires to work there or whether he is, as a consumer or as a citizen, affected by his activity and his commitments. So let us not fall into shortcuts that would lead to stigmatization or demonization of today's business. Is the company a common good? The question arises. In any case, it is a vehicle for achieving a common goal of success and prosperity for the benefit of all stakeholders. To do this, the company relies on three entities working together to achieve these aims: the shareholders, first of all, who obviously wish to see their investment produce results, while assuming, from the outset, a risk without which the company cannot exist. The managers, then, who make strategic decisions for the future of the company and often bridge the gap between ownership and employees – employees who are assumed to be 30% more productive when they are happy at work. Finally, the employees, who are the main players in creativity, innovation and the production of business value, want to see the fruits first and foremost and legitimately better. The nerve of war is indeed in the sharing of value and not in co-management. The final interest of this triptych is common: it is not an angelic vision; It is a real vision of our economy. It should also be noted that, in our TPEs and SMEs, these three entities often combine into one. Finally, is it really thinking of a new enterprise that the public authorities must impose governance based on a presupposition of opposition between capital and labour? I don't think so: it's a different time. But rest assured that the majority, alongside the Government, is fully mobilized to bring out this debate on the reality of the company, or rather on the reality of business models. It is in this sense that, on 15 October, the President of the Republic called for work on the definition of the enterprise, as well as a reform of the interest and participation of employees. On 23 October, the Minister of the Economy launched an unprecedented consultation, opening Bercy's doors to parliamentarians and business players to form together, after the hearing of multiple actors on the ground and social partners, an action plan for the growth and transformation of companies, says PACTE. On January 5, Nicole Notat and Jean-Dominique Senard were commissioned to reflect on the role and mission of the company, as part of an interdepartmental mission linking Bercy, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Justice. Finally, for the past three days, everyone can bring their stone to the building by participating in the online consultation initiated by the Ministry of Economy to co-build and enrich the bill that will be presented to parliamentarians in the spring with the possibility of both evaluating the Government's proposals and bringing new ideas. Last night, more than 3,500 contributions had already been deposited. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The drafters of this bill have rightly pointed out in their explanatory statement that the change we are waiting for will not take place without the participation of all civil society. In that regard, the Government's approach was best suited to that goal. That is why the Republic on the move is not prepared to vote on this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u4	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we would like first of all to welcome the initiative of the New Left for this bill. We have, of course, disagreements on many points: it seems to us that the text unfortunately does not go far enough in its proposals so that the relationship of corporate governance can be thoroughly rethought, in a modern and innovative way. But this bill has the great merit of allowing a real debate in session about the company, its role in society, its economic, social, democratic and environmental potential. Indeed, for La France insoumise, the company is above all a collective of human work, endowed with a social object and generating, within a local, national and international environment, an activity producing wealth. It is a collective of work: from our point of view, it is employees who sell their labour force in exchange for remuneration and who cooperate to produce goods and services. Work is not an end in itself: it is not only a means of material subsistence, but also a realization of oneself through the work, material or immaterial, that is produced. It is a social object, on the one hand, because the company is made up of a combination of social relations – you never really work alone in your corner: everything that allows our individual work has been thought and produced by others. It is a social object because the company must internally respect the rights of the people who work there, their working conditions and their remuneration. It is a social object, on the other hand, because it must be managed with, as a guideline, the pursuit of the material, human and environmental interests of its employees, those who depend directly or indirectly on it – subcontractors and subcontractors, creditors and creditors – and those who benefit from it – the customers, users, society as a whole. Thus, in our emancipatory and eco-socialist vision, the company, before organizing an economy of goods, structures a group of individuals who share a community of interest – the realization of the project, the general human interest – but who also have positions – of power, control – different and unequal. The contract of employment, let us recall, is a contract of subordination which punishes a form of exploitation. If there must be respect, if there can be conviviality and even friendships between each other, the boss, the boss and the employee are not in a position of equality. That is why the role of the law is to establish rules to enable the realization of common interests and the equalization of the power relations inherent in this relationship. We have seen this again in recent weeks with the Lactalis scandal: when the social role of the company is lost, the greed of a few leads to the exploitation of people providing essential work, such as milk producers and producers, and to serious health consequences for users and users, with children on the front line. Here we are talking about a world leader in his sector of activity, whose opaque practices appear today; There is concern that investigations will reveal the even greater extent of these questionable practices. The social and environmental purpose must therefore be the backbone of entrepreneurial activity. It is for the legislators that we are to create within and outside the company a regulated and transparent environment, which fosters the confidence of everyone in the company's project. The real question, once we have talked about trust and transparency – words that are also very expensive, apparently at least, to the current government – is how to make this concrete, both in decision-making procedures and in procedures for monitoring compliance with the general interest. For France, one of the conditions of trust is, for example, the shared conviction that everyone is working on a common project in the service of the general interest. This implies co-decision, not co-determination, as formulated in this bill, the contours of which seem to us to be too vague. Jean Jaurès said that the great Revolution of 1789 made the French kings in the city and left them serfs in the company. Codecision within a company would enable employees to vote on important decisions that will affect their future. In our programme, L'avenir en commun, we propose several measures to introduce this new citizenship in the company, which would be truly full and complete: to grant new control rights to works councils on the finances of their company; introduce the right for employees to vote in distrust of managers or strategic projects; to strengthen the power of intervention of employees against economic redundancies by means of a right of suspensive veto of works councils. Codecision also means valuing shareholders for their real investment in the company. This implies modulating the voting rights of these shareholders in principle, not optionally, according to a certain length of time and a criterion of presence in the company. The ownership, from our point of view, cannot be a disembodied Monopoly game. Trust within the company is also a maximum income gap of 1 to 20. According to a study by Bloomberg, which is far from being a leftist group, in 2017 in France, a boss of CAC 40 earned 70 times more than an employee, taking on average 2.3 million euros per year compared to 32973 euros for the employee. As for the leaders of the 120 largest French companies – SBF 120 – it takes them less than three days to reach nearly 30000 euros. Last year, their remuneration was on average 132 times higher than that of their employees and, since 3 January, according to the calculation of La Tribune inspired by a British think tank, they and they have theoretically already received more than the average annual wage in France. Such disparities are objectively and morally unjustifiable. Trust in the company cannot be achieved without a requirement of transparency. And transparency implies a real policy of combating tax evasion and so-called "optimization" of taxation. These rogue practices are an unfair appropriation of the collective wealth suffered not only by employees but by society as a whole. Every year, tax evasion deprives the states of billions of euros – in France up to 80 billion euros – which would be very useful to finance public services, especially in the health sector. That's what the NGO Oxfam denounced a few months ago in a video that I invite you to see and in which we see robbers attacking a hospital. The masked men brutally remove the infusions, stop the machines before leaving. These men represent companies that pay less taxes. According to the NGO, EUR 89.5 billion is lost each year by the poorest countries, while one third of this amount would save eight million lives. On this subject, the measures proposed by the New Left seem to us to be somewhat inadequate in view of the extent of these practices. Nevertheless, their adoption would send a salutary political signal, while so far the Government and its majority have been much more quick to discriminate against workers and stigmatize the unemployed than to punish thug bosses. We see it, there is neither phobia nor contempt for the company on the part of France, on the contrary. For us, the collective of labour and production that is the enterprise must irrigate society as a whole: a democratic and just enterprise fertilizes a just and democratic society. Again, the company is a human collective that has an economic, social, political and environmental impact. Democratic enterprise is democracy outside and within the enterprise; It is a necessary condition for a true democracy for all. It is not a runoff which, instead of correcting the imbalances between the different parties, accentuates them for the benefit of people who are still in a position of strength. It is not to redistribute the wealth produced by the labour force of all and to the people who are already richer, without ceiling, without limit. Nor is it the maximum regulation for the most vulnerable and self-regulation for the powerful and powerful. It's not all of them competing to produce frantically without it taking advantage of the short, medium and long term to anyone and, above all, not to the planet. For us the company of tomorrow is the one that creates constructive relations of power, at the service of society, of the planet, of all and all. That is why we hope that we will be able to complete the examination of this bill and that it will therefore not be referred back to committee, as the majority seems to wish, without waiting for further debate to send a signal that would correct the actions carried out, in particular when voting on labour law orders or budgets which have unfortunately proved that this government's programme serves the interests of the richest than those of the most vulnerable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We have the opportunity here to start correcting the shot and I call on you to act in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u6	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we share the point that guides this proposal, which is the initiative of our colleagues in the New Left: the company is not a social isolate. There is indeed a reflection to be made on the place of the company within our society. I will go even further: this reflection must focus on the role of work itself for the individual and on the place of work in society. I believe that is the ambition of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Government. In keeping with the modernisation of the social dialogue, we will debate in this Chamber the reform of unemployment insurance and vocational training, the simplification of business life, the "Action Plan for Business Growth and Transformation". In this regard, I agree with the Government's choice to approach in the same movement the various aspects that govern the lives of businesses and employees. It expresses a real desire to change software and structurally transform our country. In the past, thinking about the company and the employee has been too confined in silos reasoning and partitioning logics. This is also the subject of extensive consultation with the social partners. We will have the opportunity to defend our convictions in Parliament in the first half of 2018. I think that the concerns of your bill will find this opportunity to be widely discussed. We can also share your thinking that certain shareholder or managerial practices are questionable and counterproductive for the company itself. But if we have to keep a critical eye on these practices, which indeed require our full vigilance, let us bear in mind that too much focusing on difficulties blinds the positive developments that are taking place. Today, many tricolor companies are fully committed to the transition of our economic model and to developing active policies on societal and environmental responsibility. Legislative work has already begun in this area under the previous quinquennium. Our group would like to draw your attention to the importance of moving forward with caution so as not to weaken the French economic model. Thus, relations between managers, shareholders and employees should not be approached in terms of antagonism, but rather in terms of the conjugation of interests and collective effort. With regard to the limitation of wages, it seems necessary to recall that the determination of a ceiling does not automatically lead to an increase in the floor and that this provision, which again relies on a Government report, does not intend to solve a legitimate problem in substance. We believe that it would be more appropriate to invest the issues of employee participation and interest in the enterprise, which, in addition to raising the floor, would make it possible to involve the employee in the success of the enterprise and to strengthen the convergence of the interests of the various actors in the enterprise. I would also like to warn you of the generalization of double voting in boards of directors, which has often been seen as a tool at the service of the State to weigh more significantly in the management of companies. The dual voting right is of interest only to investors seeking to exercise control of the company. The undesirable effects which could accompany the generalisation of this system and the advent of a triple vote should be anticipated. Such a provision could encourage an increase in the number of takeovers and lead de facto to a change in the balance of management committees, which would be contrary to the very spirit of the text. Moreover, it is essential to distinguish between the managerial "short-termist" and the operational "short-termist" between which no systematic link is established. On the issue of financial transparency, we believe that it should be a means of building trust with employees and citizens. We note that this text attempts to circumvent the Constitutional Council's decision on the provision of the Sapin II Anti-Corruption and Tax Fraud Act, which provided for the obligation of companies to make public their profit transfer practices and taxable basics to tax privileged states. The proposed mechanism does not escape the question of its applicability. Our group believes that the issue of corporate financial transparency is primarily a European issue if we really want to implement effective control and enforcement mechanisms. The European scale is relevant and necessary to ensure that this does not affect the competition of our companies. From the point of view of general philosophy, this bill is aimed at large companies, with a degree of distrust that does not seem to be a constructive starting point. It also tends to forget the problems and specificities of our TPEs and our SMEs and entrepreneurs in general, who operate in an administrative framework that is too complex, too burdensome and often disconnected from reality. I believe that it is necessary to reverse this logic. Thinking about the place and responsibility of the company in society must first be based on the notion of trust. You will allow me to quote Winston Churchill. I will not repeat what he said about socialism in order not to seem to be giving me an inappropriate provocation, but I will repeat what he said about the company: "The head of a company is considered a man to shoot down or a cow to milk. Few see in him the horse that pulls the chariot. What our country needs is for businesses to have confidence and to be able to create growth and thus jobs. And the employee will be interested in the dynamics thus created. Employees' trust in their boss and vice versa is the key to a company's life. The success of the consultation on the reform of social dialogue and labour ordinances is a real collective step forward. We must now work on the invention of a new model of employee participation and interest, as the President of the Republic has committed himself to it. State confidence in entrepreneurs is the key to freeing creative and positive energies. The forthcoming reforms of the Government are therefore very much expected. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, our group cannot support this bill. It certainly has the merit of opening a necessary debate on the place of enterprise in the society of the 21st century, but we will have the opportunity to return to it during the parliamentary debate on business growth and transformation in which each of our groups can present its proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u8	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 200 years our country has experienced three industrial revolutions and is entering a fourth. At each of these revolutions, our companies have had to reinvent their model, change their business, and innovate. Yet, at the same time, the very definition of what a society is has remained unchanged, without taking into account societal developments. The New Left Group's proposal for a law seems to me to be asking legitimate questions, although we differ on the answers to be given. They are part of the reflections that all current political leaders must have. In fact, this majority shares these questions, including the question of what a company is today, how to foster its societal commitment, and how to better distribute value. Addressing this issue also means working for the reconciliation of the French not so much with the company, as the minister pointed out earlier, but more broadly with the very notion of ownership. Commitment becomes the cardinal virtue of this early century and expectations are very high. Consumers have become "consumers." Companies must now retain their Y or Z-generation employees, who are looking for meaning. Their reputation becomes one of their most valuable assets. All of this must ask us about corporate social responsibility. It seems urgent to us therefore to emerge from binary oppositions that distinguish from supposedly irreconcilable terms: capital against labour; competitiveness against accountability; transparency against simplification. It is this observation that served as the basis for us, at Agnès Touraine and myself, to formulate the proposals that we have submitted to the Minister of the Economy, as part of the preparatory work for the future major law on the transformation and growth of our enterprises. The hearings we conducted reinforced my conviction that we should have an ambitious political vision of what the company is becoming. It is necessary to have a vision that is both lucid and demanding and that devotes the company not as a mere association of shareholders, but as a place of collective innovation that produces utility in the service of the economy. We thus find ourselves on the need to carry out a work of rewriting the civil code, without taboo, the commercial code and the soft law on the definition of society. Articles 1832 and 1833 of the Civil Code, which caused a great deal of ink to flow, are at the heart of the bill. You propose a maximalist version of the modification of these articles...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u10	And you, minimalist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u11	...to define the stakeholders. Like what the majority has been proposing since the beginning of the quinquennium, we are convinced that the freedom of enterprise, the freedom of everyone, must be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u12	The freedom of employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u13	This freedom of choice must be exercised by securing companies and those among them who want to act differently, in the sense of greater societal commitment. We proposed with Agnès Touraine to open up new possibilities in the civil code. Perhaps these proposals will feed the future law and inspire the Notat-Senard mission! Companies wishing to maintain their current status must be able to do so, but all companies must also be encouraged to move forward in order to inspire and disseminate social responsibility as widely as possible. Like you – this is a good proposal – I think it is appropriate to create a new type of business status, like the movement inaugurated in the United States with the B Corps, these companies with a broader social purpose. A mission-oriented enterprise would allow us to find a third path between "capitalist enterprise" and solidarity-based enterprise. We must break the too thick walls separating today the social and solidarity economy – with the related constraints – and the traditional business world that would only be driven by the idea of maximizing profits. In addition to the statutes, you call for further progress on governance. I would like to point out that France does not have to be ashamed of its situation in this area and that it is already at the forefront. The rules adopted in recent years are ambitious and should lead us, on the contrary, to promote our system of governance and the strong social commitment already demonstrated by the vast majority of French companies. A speech of valorisation supported by our politicians on an international level is an indispensable first signal, in the image of the Anglo-Saxon ability to deploy a valuable vision, a real tool of soft power. Let's do the same with our companies! Defending this bold and forward-looking vision of French companies requires continued progress in governance, continued progress in the sharing of value and social responsibility. That is why we proposed, among other things, to further integrate the CSR approach into the company's strategy. We need to move forward on integrated reporting, we need to strengthen the shareholder foundation system, we need to increase the requirements of soft law – flexible law – for the independence of directors, we need to improve the identification of investors in order to promote committed and long-term ownership. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As you can see, we are going to make very concrete proposals that, I am sure, will feed into the future business growth and transformation bill. It is an ambitious vision of social responsibility that this majority will support! Perhaps you will reply to me that we are not going far enough, particularly as regards the remuneration of managers or the presence of employees on the boards of directors, but some of the arrangements adopted in recent years are beginning to be put in place: I think, in particular, that we are going to pay. We have to evaluate them before we go any further. It is this difference of approach that leads us to ask for a referral back to committee, but I am nevertheless convinced that we will be able to find points of convergence, in our forthcoming discussions, on what the undertaking of the 21st century should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u14	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are invited to take a decision on a proposal for a law from our colleagues in the New Left Group which is trying to redefine the legal framework and definition of the company in order to set up the fundamentals of what it calls "a new governance". We have had the opportunity to express our views in the Law Committee, with the Republican Group committed to the debate on this subject. It seems to us that the question of the role of the company in society can evolve and take new forms. It also seems to us that caution should be exercised. Thus, catapulting articles 1832 and 1833 of the Civil Code at the turn of a "niche" day can leave enough dreaming. On these issues, it is urgent to wait. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Left Group, you have chosen to make your voice heard on matters which the Government has seized, which is perfectly understandable but does not facilitate our work as a parliamentarian this afternoon. You put us in front of the fait accompli and, above all, you ask us to rule on an unfinished legislative version, you acknowledged it yourself: the work remains open and needs to be matured. So we know, of course: no more than we, no more than all the oppositions you have an administration behind you. However, this does not change the result: a bill that does not have the means of its ambitions, which has six requests for reports, which moves articles of the 200-year-old civil code without sufficient consultation and on which the President of the National Assembly has not sought the opinion of the Council of State. I also note the limited powers of the opposition, which cannot really legislate in this beautiful house even when it has been a matter of arms-on-body for years, as is the case here, rapporteur – this aside is intended for my colleagues in the Republic on the move, whose trembling hand I hope they will legislate in our possible future debates on constitutional reform. The Republican Group is not suspended from government action, but we cannot act as if the sharing of value and the societal commitment of companies were not the second theme of the CAPTE, as if the companies on mission, the employee shareholding, the modalities of participation and interest were not going to be put back on the table in the coming weeks. We cannot act as if the Government had not just opened a public consultation and as if there was not an ongoing mission on the relationship between enterprise and public interest, whose conclusions we are awaiting by 1 March. I now turn to the key points of your bill. Unsurprisingly, we have serious doubts about your redefinition of the company's social object. We consider Article 1e r to be reckless in this respect. Let the company be at the heart of its time, oriented towards a fair and sustainable economy, we can only agree with it. Stakeholders are already being taken into account and can go even further, in particular through the promotion of new social forms close to mission companies, which you are proposing in Article 10. But this debate is reminiscent of the lines of opposition that structured the discussions of the previous quinquennium. We still find this desire to force the company: yesterday it was forcing it to find and finally to look for a successor in the event of the sale of a site and, today, it is dictating to it the enlargement of its social object. However, as we all know, the law that is the most virtuous is sometimes the most creative of litigation: what about tomorrow's arbitration between potentially divergent interests of stakeholders and shareholders? This does not mean that we must give up and remain stuck on a vision of the company limited to its lucrative vocation and the interests of its shareholders. France can also claim some reasons for pride in this matter. The Autorité des marchés financiers recognises the efforts of our companies in the area of CSR, in particular to integrate stakeholders. A large part of the large French companies already integrate their expectations into their strategic priorities through dedicated tools. The rating agency Vigeo Eiris considered in its January 2017 report that the extra-financial information published by French companies was the most comprehensive in the world. As you will have understood, we would be more in favour of mission companies created on the basis of a voluntary approach, a little like other countries – I am thinking of the American public-profit corporations or even the UK companies act of 2006, which precisely allows to take into account the interests of the stakeholders in accordance with the interests of the shareholders. This does not mean giving your article 10 a white-seing. Your design of mission companies could undermine the company's freedom of management because of the extensive powers it gives to the extended object management committee. Extending the company's social purpose cannot be at the expense of its primary purpose, which is to make activity, growth and profitability possible. It seems to us that your proposal does not fully achieve such a balance. This question of balance will in a way be the leitmotif of my intervention. While most of your proposals are of real interest, everything remains a cursory issue. One can only look at the strengthening of employee directors, which has proved its worth in Germany in particular, or the right to vote threefold in order to promote the long-term shareholding. But on co-determination, you know that the provisions of the Rebsamen law have been applicable for a whole year. Let's review before we legislate! Let us avoid provisions contrary to contractual freedom such as that aimed at requiring simplified share companies to become public limited companies! Participation is one of the topics to which we are very attached. Your desire to make it compulsory from twenty employees is perfectly understood, but, again, why not favour the voluntary approach of companies? Your Article 4 should not lead to a risk that could affect the profitability of SMEs in particular. Perhaps we should make this threshold of twenty an optional threshold and leave at fifty the mandatory threshold? Finally, I would like to say a word about Article 5 of your proposal to create a social rescript prior to collective redundancies on economic grounds. This is your way of following up on the question of the assessment of the economic difficulties of French subsidiaries within the framework of the national perimeter. We supported this measure during the enabling law of the "Work" ordinances, just as we wanted to re-enact in the law of ratification its annulment in case of fraud. We can only share your concern to protect our subsidiaries from the artificial creation of economic difficulties. However, again, rather than imposing a form of exante administrative control over the activity of multinationals requesting validation of a plan to safeguard employment – PSE – perhaps we need to make sure of the means that will be given to the judge to conduct his investigation, if necessary? We draw the Government's attention to this particular point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u16	You've had your text rewritten by the MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u17	I conclude by thanking you for the debate of ideas that you are proposing to this House with this bill. The UN recently denounced the drifts of unbridled capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u18	For good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u19	Our Europe watch is at the crossroads of two capitalisms, American and Chinese, very offensive, the first of which thinks only of its shareholders and the second...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u20	To his people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u21	...only to its logic of state. Today we have the opportunity to re-think together the role of the enterprise in the service of the general interest, but on one condition: that the general interest requires growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u22	I thought you were more open!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u23	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u24	You are inviting us, colleagues in the New Left Group, to discuss corporate governance, which is to ask how decision-making power should be shared within them. Your bill is called "New Business and New Governances," and in my view it should have been called "New Governances of Capital Corporations." As I said in the Committee on Laws, I think you are confusing the notion of business with that of society. Indeed, your objective is not to change corporate governance since there are as many governances as necessary to meet the different individual or collective wills on the form of governance and ownership of a company. Indeed, there are already companies without shareholders and owners: this is the case with associations. There are already companies with governance and ownership held by employees: this is the case with cooperatives. There are already companies with governance held by those who benefit from their services: this is the case with mutuals. There are already companies which belong to citizens through the state or local authorities: this is for example the case of public industrial and commercial establishments. Finally, there is even recognition of companies which are owned by shareholders, i.e. companies of capital, and which have a social or environmental objective. Moreover, it is to you that we owe this new status, since it is the law that bears the name of your presidential candidate, the Hamon Law of 2014, which introduced the concept of solidarity company of social utility. In my view, this provision is a good thing, since it has enabled a number of social entrepreneurs who had decided to take on the status of society, to have their priority recognized, not economic profitability, but the fulfilment of a social or environmental mission. In your explanatory statement, you state that "the concept of the company, as it exists in French law, appears out of step with its contemporary and archaic reality in view of its mission in the 21st century". However, there is no legal definition of the firm in the strict sense, for a simple reason: it is that this term refers, as I have just shown, to extremely different realities. Indeed, an enterprise is a structure in which an economic activity is organized. From a legal point of view, it has no consistency, and it is the notion of "status" that brings it to it. So it is not corporate governance that you want to change, but corporate governance. Why not? But in this case, let us not forget that it is already possible, in our law, to draw the governance that you wish to impose on all societies. I also disagree with another point in your statement of reasons. You write that the business must be "considered as a common good". This is true for public companies. This is often true for social economy and solidarity enterprises. But this is much more rarely true for private companies, which respond to private interests. It is, moreover, a freedom to which I am attached. This fundamental freedom, which is guaranteed by article 4 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, must be left to the entrepreneur to create a society with the priority of developing an economic activity. But section 1 of your bill makes me think that you want to go back to that freedom. You want to broaden the primary objective of a society and to impose the consideration of the environmental and societal consequences of the activity of the society, in the same way as the interests of the partners and the company. This wording seems to me to be broad and imprecise. Companies already have to respect a regulatory, social and environmental framework, which we are trying to develop here. Since this framework is already very restrictive, how can we, in practice, ask companies that already have enough to win markets, develop their activities and respect the existing regulatory framework to volunteer to meet social and environmental objectives, that you put them on the same level as economic objectives? You seem to forget that the vast majority of companies are very small businesses. If large companies can finance an entire department dedicated to their societal responsibility, this cannot be the case for all companies. Many small business leaders demonstrate good will to meet social and environmental objectives that are additional to the regulatory framework,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u25	It's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u26	...but we cannot force them all to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thus, while we must obviously take into account the social and environmental developments of our world, we must also allow companies, their managers and their employees to focus on their main mission, from the moment when, in the exercise of this mission, our social and environmental law is respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u27	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 April 2013, that was four years ago. Until then, everyone agrees with me! But it was also a special day for our planet, a sad day, when 1138 people died and 2000 others were wounded, the day a building collapsed. Of course I want to talk about the Rana Plaza. On that day, we became aware of the importance of the social responsibility of the organizations, and especially the donors. Since then, the regulatory and normative world has grown considerably. On 1 January 2016, France adopted the UN's Sustainable Development Agenda and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. On 27 March 2017, France adopted the law on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies, which requires the establishment of mechanisms to prevent human rights violations and environmental damage throughout their production chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u29	It was Dominique Potier already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u30	Indeed, it was already at the initiative of our colleague. In July 2017, the international standard ISO 20400 was published in French, which provides organizations with guidelines to integrate societal responsibility into their purchasing processes. Since July 19, 2017, an order has required the companies concerned to replace the " CSR report" with an "extra-financial performance statement" inserted in their management report. In addition to an extra-financial risk analysis, the company must provide information on how it takes into account the social and environmental consequences of its business. This "extra-financial performance statement" will be closer to the corporate strategy than the previous CSR report. Indeed, companies will have to ensure that it is linked to their business model. Since October 1, 2017, the Supplier Relations and Responsible Procurement Label has incorporated the international 20400 Responsible Procurement standard into the evaluation framework. It is the first state label in this field awarded by the public authorities. As a reminder, societal responsibility is based on an international text, ISO 26000, which describes what organisations need to do to operate in a socially responsible manner. It is based on seven key issues, which are: the governance of the organization; human rights; relations and working conditions; the environment; good business practices; consumer issues; societal commitment and territorial dynamics. French legislation is now one of the most developed in the European Union. A study carried out for the Business Ombudsman in April 2017 shows that French companies perform better in terms of corporate social responsibility than those of the thirty-five OECD countries and emerging countries. We can be proud of this, but we must continue to develop this responsibility and to raise awareness among the Member States of the European Union on this issue. France remains fully committed to this issue at the international level. I also want to wink at la francophonie. The Commission is deploying its political project and programmes for the promotion of human rights. Its actions are now echoed again through CSR. In a world where citizens are increasingly informed, increasingly connected, but also increasingly united, the question of corporate responsibility for their impact on society and the environment is essential and raises expectations. This is, I assure you, a real competitive advantage. Being a socially responsible society means not only fully fulfilling legal obligations, but also going beyond that, investing in human capital, the environment and relations with stakeholders, i.e. with all the actors involved in economic life: employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, but also trade unions, NGOs, civil society and local authorities. It is important to remember that CSR is not contradictory to financial performance. On the contrary, it allows us to create new opportunities that create value through competitive advantages, attract and retain employees, but also customers, to have fruitful relationships with companies, public authorities, the media, suppliers, customers and the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u31	What are the consequences?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u32	"Today I have the dream that nature will be respected, that we will fight pollution and global warming. I have a dream that respect for future generations will create new patterns of consumption. Today, I have a dream of social justice and peace all over the world, because every child will be spared forced labour and some other forms of exploitation. Boys and girls will be able to make full use of their potential. Organizations will be evaluated on the basis of the care they have vis-à-vis others. These are the few simple words that ISO – the International Organization for Standardization – has chosen to present societal responsibility to the general public. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] CSR falls within the sphere of politics, i.e. the art of making collective choices. So let's have time to build together. It is for this purpose that the La République en marche group will vote to refer this bill back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u33	The general discussion is closed. I call Mr Dominique Potier, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u34	I thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor to respond to the speakers who have almost all shown exemplary goodwill, immense goodwill and great concern... to request the referral of this bill to committee! By listening to you, colleagues, it seemed to me that there were many demonstrations of love and benevolence, but very little evidence of love. And I fear that this referral to committee will mean, for many of you, a reference to the oblivion of the many salient points that we wanted to highlight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u35	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u36	Are they so unrealistic? No! Eighteen European countries have been ahead of us in terms of codetermination and what we are proposing would not even make up for this delay. The group of the Republic and the revolution in motion suddenly shows great timidity and reproaches us for wanting to break walls. For my part, I have the impression that we are protecting from citadels. I tell you very sincerely, I am extremely disappointed, because the conversations I had had with some of you gave me more hope. Many had expressed strong political expectations, but they do not seem ready to give them a real translation, and this causes me immense disappointment. I am disappointed to see that many do not go beyond adherence in principle. There are, of course, exceptions, and here I would like to address the left wing of the New Left. You, ladies and gentlemen, have absolutely wanted to table amendments on the income gap to show your difference. We have remained cautious about this, because it is a complex issue. Should we, for example, include dividends? We have been cautious, I said, and we have asked for a study on this subject. You propose a deviation of 1 to 20. Know that the personal conviction of your rapporteur – she will no doubt surprise you and you will be able to meditate on it – is that no one in a month should be able to earn more than another person in a year. This is my ethical and philosophical position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u38	On this issue, the debate remains totally open and we have only chosen prudence in this bill. In any case, I wanted to thank you for your support. I would also like to thank Mr. Erwan Balanant, who told us that he wants to go further than we do in the context of the review of the CAPTE Act. So we make an appointment with him and with our few allies. If I remain on my hunger, it is because every time we get into the hard, the effective, as the President of the Republic so well says, we see a resignation, point by point. Is codetermination for tomorrow, or for ever? When you talk about participation, you talk about interest. But I remind you that interest is optional. Making 100% of French people potentially eligible for an interest is not the same as lowering the threshold for participation from 50 to 20 employees, or from 50 to 10, as proposed by the country's first trade union. I would like to make it clear to Stéphane Viry, with whom I have already had a discussion on this subject, that we are in no way harming the competitiveness of SMEs, since this participation is calculated on profit – half a profit, minus 5% of the ratio between value added and capital, reduced to the wage bill on value added. Some unions have proposed to change this formula, which is now a consensus. It could certainly be improved. For example, CICE or equivalent aid could be added to the company's benefit so that employees could benefit from it. Any tax penalties that are imposed by the officers could also be deducted as long as there is no codetermination. We could improve this formula, but it is clear that the principle of participation does not affect the competitiveness of companies, since it is only a matter of sharing a share of profits. You often have the word "sharing" in your mouth, but when it comes to moving on to practical work, the result is disappointing. Even though I appreciated the tone and style of Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, I see that there is double standards – and this adage eventually becomes a trademark. Indeed, for the ordinances, it was necessary to go quickly and it was possible to decide, at the turn of a reform of the labour code, that the scope of dismissal of a company would no longer be at the level of the world economy, but at the national level, and even at the level of the branch! All this was decided without any assessment of the consequences of such a measure, of which we all know that they are dramatic in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u40	To make these decisions, we did not need an evaluation. But when we talk about the place of employee directors in companies, would we need a ten-year evaluation? The introduction of the first employee directors did not date back to 2015, as the minister said, but to 2013. They've been there for five years and we wouldn't have enough to evaluate their action and move on to the next stage? I am extremely surprised by this shyness. On the other hand, with regard to the importance of increased participation and profit sharing for businesses, I would like to say to the Minister of the Economy, whom I have appreciated that he adheres to the philosophy of our text and demonstrates his interest in the issues raised as well as in our work, that it would be a bad trial for the wage-earner world to think that participation in corporate governance would be a burden. It would be wrong to know the reality of the German industry, which has entered into a contract with the trade union world to carry out restructurings, changes that our country has less been able to cope with. I could advise him to read the very knowledgeable book by Christophe Clerc and Jean-Louis Beffa. They are neither great revolutionaries, but they demonstrate with Louis Gallois and many other bosses, such as Emmanuel Faber, or the leader of a great champion of energy and water, that power-sharing is a force for our companies and for the future. So I am really disappointed, despite this adherence to our philosophy, because I would have liked to have adopted at least the first two points, the reform of the civil code and the principle of codetermination. We would then have laid a beautiful foundation, a beautiful first stone to the reform of the company which you call of your wishes. I would have dreamed of a less timid Prime Minister and President of the Republic, ready to give southern Europe a leader, France, to reinvent a model of enterprise adapted to the 21st century and which joins the best standards in northern Europe, in order to build a European model that is an authentic alternative to the two capitalisms, whose cynicism is often denounced in these ranks. It is a project that would have deserved to be mobilized to consolidate it, and to build alternatives together. Deception, too, as I said, about this reform of the civil code. That's all for it! We are announced a reform of the company, but in the end we only have the ability to create mission companies! The gap between the ad and the result is abyssal. Mission societies are not a revolution; they are a faculty offered in the range of functions of the social economy. Without creating confusion, much more powerful levers exist, beyond the civil code, whether it is to strengthen the approval of the social economy and the social utility or double rating which represents a prospect of a profound change in our economy in relation to citizens, consumers, savers and collaborators. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] But finally, the civil code, which takes into account the social, economic and environmental consequences of an activity, would therefore become an option in your design? Of course, in a country such as France, which is the country of the Enlightenment, we must retain a universal dimension, which must be shared, for no Frenchman can forget, even when he becomes an employee, that he is first and foremost a citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u41	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u42	On the way to conservatism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u43	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologize for the absence of Mr Bruno Le Maire, who was chosen by a meeting with the German Federal Minister for Finance, Mr Peter Altmaier. Mrs Laetitia Avia, Mr Stanislas Guerini, we welcome the constructive work undertaken with Members on the issue of corporate governance and its social purpose, which, as you pointed out, will be a natural outcome in the PACTE bill, an action plan for business growth and transformation. Mrs Danièle Obono, as Bruno Le Maire recalled this morning, the Government is ready to begin a reflection on the representation of employees in governance bodies, but after a robust evaluation of the provisions of the Rebsamen law of 2015 on this subject. That is what Mr. Stéphane Viry said. With regard to tax evasion, the Government had launched a major project at the European level to better trace the profits of the net giants and to advance tax harmonization. With regard to the sharing of value in favour of employees, the Government will propose concrete measures in the PACTE Bill to extend participation and interest schemes to employees in small enterprises. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, we agree that these issues must be dealt with as much as possible at European level in order to maintain a level playing field for our companies. Mr Pacôme Rupin, you rightly point out the inaccuracy of several sections of this bill which, in our view, has not been the subject of sufficient impact assessment and consultation. Mr rapporteur, let us be clear that we are not throwing this issue into oblivion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u44	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u45	We simply provide ourselves with the means to better identify and address issues that are central to business life. Your initiative opened the debate, and we thank you for that. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Thank you very much for the work done. Let us continue to reflect together so that we can define a legal framework to recognise employee participation, the possibility of an expanded social object, without disproportionately increasing the burden on our enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and ensuring that these rules are properly linked with existing law and European law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u46	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a new business and new governance law has been the subject of rich debates and respectful of the opinions of everyone in the law committee. I would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this long debate, which, in the words of the rapporteur, "honours" parliamentary work by virtue of its quality. This quality was manifested above all in the expression of the political and even philosophical stakes of this bill. Each group was thus able to feed the debate from its point of view on the role of the company, its tasks, the relations between capital, governance and labour, among others. I would also stress the philosophical nature of our discussions because it is also clear from our committee work that the proposed text cannot, as it stands, be adopted. This text is somewhat like a proposal for an appeal, primarily to initiate the debate that we have today and that we will continue this spring as part of the PACTE bill, which is commendable. Mr rapporteur, this morning you positioned your group as a scout, but a scout of a project on which all the spotlights are already being worked through the immense work done by the six working groups which submitted their report to the Minister for the Economy at the end of December. The Government's willingness to involve as many people as possible through public consultation should be welcomed. As you know, a bill cannot be properly passed three days after we have promised our fellow citizens that they will be asked to draft the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u48	What about the labor code? What about the prescriptions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u49	As far as the method is concerned, this text contains provisions which would supplement or call into question the mechanisms implemented very recently, which you yourself voted for in the previous mandate, but which have not yet been able to produce their effects or which have not yet been evaluated. Above all, and as has been pointed out by my colleague Mr Balanant, many provisions of this proposal reveal the need to continue our work in order to clarify its scope and content. Out of eleven articles, five are halfway between the request for an information report and the proposal for concrete measures. We have noted this difficulty in committee. It must be noted that, in committee, none of the parliamentary groups was able to feed the text on the basis provided. We have studied on the one hand the deletion amendments by our colleague from the Republican Group, and on the other hand the few amendments by the rapporteur to clarify and refine his original text. There was some consensus on the need to continue the drafting of this bill, in a co-constructive spirit, of course. You will tell me that this is the work of the majority, but in this respect our timetable was known and we are already at work. You will tell me again that, if there is no amendment, it is because this text would be perfect. And we will disagree on that point. If the revolution of our business model is indeed in progress, I believe, in reading this text, that much remains to be done. If we go back to the substance of the text, on the central point of the definition of society, we must propose a wording that better aligns our right with the scope of the responsibilities to which companies can or must be exposed. But your bill seems to confuse what comes from the conditions for the formation of a society, its validity, with what comes under the life of society and its day-to-day management. Above all, it refers to the concept of a company that we have still not defined in law, but which appears on the roadmap of the interdepartmental mission launched on January 5. We need to think about the role of the company and the articulation between the three entities I mentioned earlier: shareholders, managers and employees, who together contribute to the success of the company. Finally, the real subject is the link between business dynamics and its social and environmental utility. You mentioned Stanislas Guerini's proposal, which called for the creation of a company-to-mission status. The proposed proposal is in this direction, and we expect above all the conclusions of the inter-ministerial mission on this subject. With regard to the strengthening of employees' presence on boards of directors, should it be pointed out that you yourself have passed the Rebsamen law and therefore supported the thresholds currently applicable? Should we point out that this law came into force on January 1, 2017, just a year ago, and that its evaluation has not yet been carried out? Should it be pointed out that trade union organisations do not request that 50% of the boards of directors be made up of employees? The role of the legislator is not to hinder the smooth running of the business by imposing new governance rules every year. The Board of Directors is a body that sets out the strategic directions of the company. In this respect, it is a long-term organ whose evolutions must be considered with a method to ensure their effectiveness. With regard to the third element of the text, the extension of the scope of compulsory participation as an element of remuneration for employees in companies of twenty persons, once it is not customary, I must say that this proposal for a law may lack some ambition since the Minister is currently submitting to the vote, through public consultation, the possibility of "making interestedness and participation a reality for all employees in a logic of sharing value". Government, the majority and actors in the business world agree on one point: employees need to be more interested in the fate of the company. And here I use the word "interest" in both its legal definition and its acceptance in common language. 'Employees prefer to receive the right product of their work rather than co-management': I take this from one of the hearings that you have conducted, rapporteur, and I can only agree with it. To this end, the largest number of employees should be provided with value-sharing mechanisms, in the form of participation, self-interest, changes in the social package or any other wage savings mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u50	By raising wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u51	But we also need to think about other levers, such as improving the transfer of businesses to employees. The construction site is therefore vast. Finally, with regard to the proposals to strengthen and enhance commitments to corporate social responsibility, the rapporteur himself acknowledged in committee that the work currently being carried out by the High Commissioner for the Social and Solidarity Economy and Social Innovation, Mr Christophe Itier, will be a solid basis and a valuable source of information on which we can continue our work as parliamentarians, because the legislative work has been done in this area. The necessary tools were created in the previous legislature; I am thinking in particular of the approval of social utility solidarity company – ESUS – or the citizen engagement leave. But it is in the first place in their application that we sin today and that there are ways of improving and valuing. Thus, all the topics covered in this bill are being addressed, whether in the framework of the CAPTE project, government missions or work carried out within the European Union; I am thinking in particular of the ongoing discussions on the Country by Country Reporting – CbCR directive, which aims to introduce a European-wide obligation to publish taxes paid by large companies, country by country, which will meet the expectations of transparency. I would remind you that the mechanism that you are proposing today has already been retaliated by the Constitutional Council. On all your proposals, I sincerely believe that the format chosen by the Government, that of broad consultation, in which we can all participate, is what is most appropriate for a text that we want to form the basis of a renewed report to the company. No piece of legislation is adopted on such major and structuring subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u52	Except by prescription!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u53	If this bill is the expression of a genuine desire to defend a profound transformation of our society and of our relationship with the company, we cannot seriously content ourselves with an adoption without substantive technical and legislative discussion of amendments other than those of the rapporteur on his own text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u54	What a contempt! What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u55	What a condescendence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u56	We believe, however, that the issues raised by this bill will quickly return to the heart of the debate, and that the positions today expressed by the New Left Group will feed judiciously, as will the contributions of the invited experts and our fellow citizens, the PACTE bill. That is why the Group of the Republic on the move is proposing that this text be referred back to the Committee on Laws, an appropriate place to enrich it technically, pending, Madam Minister, a bill that will necessarily have to live up to the ambitions expressed by the national representation today. To make companies easier to innovate, export and create jobs, to better associate employees with the results of the enterprise, to defend an ambitious political vision of what the enterprise is and what it must become, in the service of growth, employment, but also of a fair, efficient and sustainable economy; If necessary, reconcile the French not with the company, but with the shareholding and go further, especially in terms of gender equality, gender and conditions within the company: these are the few levers on which we must work to succeed in the economic transformation of France and profoundly change our model. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has said recently, there are a lot of possible actions, and the majority, as I hope the entire national representation will remain mobilized in the spring to co-build this reform, of which there is no doubt that it will be ambitious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u57	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, I support this request for referral back to committee because, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and I have said at the beginning of the general discussion, this bill does not seem to be balanced in its solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u59	Who judges balance?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u60	The Government, including the Ministry of Economy and Finance, will continue its work on governance as part of the Business Growth and Transformation Action Plan. Mr. Potier and all those who want to join him will soon have the opportunity to discuss these issues again in the context of the reform proposals contained in the PACTE bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u61	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u62	I am surprised and quite shocked by Mrs Avia's comments on the legal and philosophical aspects, therefore on the political level. It is somewhat paradoxical to justify this request for referral back to committee because there is insufficient time for legal analysis and legislative debate, while you do not table amendments and you prevent the debate by asking for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u64	What are your legal arguments? I asked you in committee, but you didn't answer me. My demonstration is in three points. First, our proposal to reform the civil code is much more prudent, wise, thorough and supported than that advocated by the previous Minister of the Economy, Mr Macron, in the same law. In this case, his proposal for reform was rather unwise, unlike ours. We have worked with lawyers and economists, and our proposal is stronger. Secondly, with regard to codetermination, we have taken account of all European experiences. I repeat, our proposal falls short of the provisions in force in the 18 European countries which implement codetermination without their production tools being weakened, on the contrary. What is the legal problem? Thirdly, one speaker from the majority referred to the constitutional risk that our provision on reporting would present. But the obligation of confidentiality to which staff representative bodies – IRP – are subject precisely avoids this risk. Optimisation and tax fraud still represent the €50-100 billion stumbling block!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u66	This resource would allow the public authority to lower the corporate tax rate for all of the TPEs and SMEs in our territories, which are dear to our heart. This reform is within our reach, and I am betting here with anyone who wants it to be constitutional, because the Constitutional Council will not be able to deny that the IRPs are bound by confidence. We are therefore bypassing the constitutional obstacle, and we are giving ourselves a powerful means, in the short term, to combat fiscal optimisation. Finally, with regard to the production of standards, the Minister and other speakers referred to extra-financial reporting as a result of the standards defined in 2012, 2014, 2015, and the transposition of various European directives. I just want to remind you that without CSR, we are borgnes: we have a short-term vision of capitalism, summarizing the economic performance of the moment. With CSR, our vision is twofold, but the current reporting standards make it blurred, because no one knows how to distinguish between business to business – B to B – between certification companies and large groups, which is self-justification – not to say propaganda – from the exercise of genuine social and environmental responsibility. [[Smile]] The creation by the public authorities of a public standard, approved by Parliament, whose proper application would be left to the discretion, not of the private sector, but of a State agency, would be a powerful lever for building the markets of the future. It is a profound expectation of our society that wants to buy, invest, work in companies that do not destroy the planet and respect human dignity. Is this not a political step that we could have taken together? You prefer to tell us about a nostalgic France and a France of shareholders. These giscardian words remind me of my political childhood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u67	These are the words of the MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u68	When I was ten or fifteen years old, we were already praising a France of owners and shareholders. If that's the revolution, what a step backwards! I will conclude by going back to Olivier Abel's remarks, which I mentioned at the beginning of my previous speech: the misfortune is that we do not know what we owe to others. At a meeting of political reflection, Olivier Abel rightly recalled that there are injustices, but also humiliations. Three forms of humiliation can be distinguished in our civilization: first, the feeling of being useless, of being unemployable, of being useless; Second, the inability to influence the future of the world, the impotence to change society; Third, the lack of landmarks, compasses, and the feeling of having no faith in anything. Olivier Abel added that the vocation of all citizens and the Republic was to fight against this triple humiliation which, in the end, produces more violence than injustice. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] I fear, Madam Minister, that the adoption of this motion to refer our proposals to committee is a way of delaying debate on our proposals in the spring or summer and ultimately burying them. But we will argue and continue the fight with the whole coalition that has formed for this purpose: trade unions, social movement, leaders, enlightened entrepreneurship, academics, youth movements. We will try to convince you and move the lines, because this law, like other laws that we have defended, is about common and human dignity. Mrs Avia, employees must be seen not as objects of redistribution, but as subjects and citizens who must take their full part in the fight against these three mortifying humiliations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u69	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u70	Dominique Potier said earlier that he was disappointed what, for a man who has so much confidence in human nature, shows that the majority has done strong! For my part, I am reassured, because another reaction from the majority would have surprised me. Colleagues, this work is the result of an old reflection, in particular that of Dominique Potier. We have referred to the law on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies: I am pretty much convinced that the current majority would not have voted for it. This work did not start with this government. It would have been possible to make this text flourish and to discuss each of the articles in order to get to the bottom of things. It would have been possible to amend it for debate to take place in the Senate, and our schedule could have been consistent with that of the consultations that you are going to launch. But there were no amendments, and the discussions were of pure form. This referral to committee is a maneuver, a burial, and is totally contradictory to your claims of co-construction of the law. Your arguments are of varying geometry, and it must be noted that your principles are often in toc. You say that it is necessary to evaluate and take time: you did not do so for the ordinances relating to the reform of the Labour Code;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u71	It was in our program!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u72	...you don't even expect the conclusions of thinking about the future of public services to discuss the bill for a state serving a trustworthy society. The amendments you give us are often rattles, and you have become accustomed to listening only to yourself. If this majority really were in favour of codetermination in the company, it would first make it possible to co-draft the law in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] You didn't, and we regret it. You promised to listen to the best of the ideas on the right and left of this House, and to transcend the divisions. You don't care. You make of this assembly, which you claim to defend, the most docile of the docile bodies of the President of the Republic. That's too bad. You have claimed that our law would be maximalistic; Obviously, yours will be minimalist.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u75	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u76	For my part, I am neither disappointed nor surprised – even if I would have preferred to be disappointed, it is true. During the first six months of the legislature, we were accused of caricature the majority because we talked about government or the majority of the rich, especially when you voted for the budget, which, in fact, favours the greatest revenues. However, in the course of the discussions, many of you have assured us that you can also make other choices in favour of employees, the poorest and the most vulnerable. You had the opportunity to show it with this text, as the rapporteur and Mr Vallaud pointed out. If we consider that this text does not go far enough, it is, however, in our view, a political signal, at a time when the House and society as a whole are confronted with debates about the sometimes scandalous practices of companies, some of which favour their profits at the expense of health and the environment. Yes, you had the opportunity to make a political choice in favour of society as a whole. We were ready to participate in such a debate. However, by making the opposite choice, you clearly show that you are debating or legislating in the service not of the whole society but of a minority. It is hypocritical to argue that it is necessary to take time to make a more precise assessment of the text. You did not take the time for evaluation when you changed the labour code, which represents years of social achievements and which, within companies, is a factor in equalizing power relations. You didn't take it when you decided to force it. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and NG groups]] You thus clearly reveal the double speech that is yours. You do well the politics of the richest against the poorest. You will have to take on this balance vis-à-vis the French. We will continue to fight by supporting such proposals. That is why we call for a vote against the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u77	Mr Alain Bruneel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u78	I too am disappointed as the rapporteur, Mr Potier. You have as your name The Republic on the move, and the Republic is based on values, many values, among which are political diversity, strength of proposal, listening and sharing, as well as respect for democracy. That's right, Republic. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] With this referral to committee, you gag democracy. You adopted the same attitude this morning on the bill to combat medical desertification. Parliament becomes a Chamber of Registration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u79	That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u80	There is no need to refer the text back to committee, since the committee has already ruled. It is now up to the national representative in the Chamber to discuss this text. We all have an opinion: it can be shared or discussed. We can vote in favour or against this text. On the other hand, I repeat, there is no need to refer it back to committee, because this is where the debate must be held. This text does not only have the merit of existing: it allows us to think together about the conception of the company within the society, without having to wait another three months or six months, unless this reflection is returned forever. [[Exclaims a few benches in the REM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] We will of course vote against this referral to committee, which is merely a testimony of the unique thought that you would always be right. This is serious, which is dramatic, even. Let's dare democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u81	The next speaker is Mr Jean-François Cesarini, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u82	On 15 October, the President of the Republic made clear his willingness to reform the philosophy of the business world and to overcome the often systematic and sterile divisions that we have, unfortunately for a very long time, experienced between employees and managers. We are therefore of course in favour of the general perspective of the text, which can serve as a basis for our work. However, we have launched a major national consultation on the CAPTE – an action plan for business growth and transformation – the first conclusions of which will be drawn in the spring. We therefore do not want to short-circuit it, in the same way as, when the Right tabled a bill establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, we asked it to let us work in the framework of the national conference of the territories. We even offered him to work together. We therefore do not refuse to reflect with you: on the contrary, the purpose of this referral to the committee is to start work together on the subject of reflection. Being in favour of several provisions of the text, we make an appointment with you: we say not "forever! But "to very soon: let's keep working today! » But you're right, there's no love, there's only evidence of love. That is why I will give you an example of a measure on which I wish to work with you, as I already do with companies, in particular the CAC40: the TEN – territorial responsibility of companies – on the model of CSR – corporate social responsibility. Decentralisation and deconcentration of the economy are very important to us. It is therefore necessary to consider the definition of a true percentage to quantify telework in third places within the territories, to know how collective work has been accepted, or not, in these third places or how the spouse has been helped to settle, or to ask ourselves how to improve the economic deconcentration so that the so-called intermediate territories become the great space of growth of tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I repeat: I would like to reflect with you on the establishment of a TEN based on the CSR model, an issue that the bill does not address, in order to think today at territorial level about the growth of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u83	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u84	Stéphane Viry has perfectly expressed our group's view on this text: because we do not wish to vote on it as it stands, we believe that a debate would be beneficial. That is why we do not understand the desire of the Republic to refer it back to committee, unless it is a question of drowning it tomorrow in a government project. The Republican Group believes that government texts are not the only ones worthy of debate in the House, and will vote against the motion to refer them back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u85	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u86	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Florennes, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u87	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement reiterates its view this morning. We have long shared the challenges set out in this text: strengthening employee interest and participation is a major challenge for us. Corporate social and environmental responsibility is also an old concern of our group. However, some elements of this text seem to us to be inconclusive and call for further reflection. So, a little patience. A great consultation is under way: it is also the hallmark of our majority, which we welcome every day. This consultation will make it possible to listen carefully to what civil society, TPEs and SMEs have to tell us about their expectations of tomorrow's business. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] After listening this morning to the Minister of Economy and Finance during the general discussion, we have no doubt that the PACTE project will be ambitious and innovative. That is why the MODEM Group is in favour of referring this text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u88	Mrs Maina Sage, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u89	This text is the result of a long reflection. It is also a text of the future, which addresses very important issues for all companies and territories. The IUD, Action and Independent Group is rather in favour of referral back to committee. I have already had the opportunity to speak in the law committee: this is a bill. However, in terms of form, bills often give us little time to think about and study them. I would remind you that the text was tabled on 6 December and that it deals with complex issues: even if you worked on them upstream, the national representation did not have time to understand them well. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I prefer a reference in committee to a prior rejection, which is often the subject of bills. That is why we support this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u90	When will the text be put on the committee's agenda?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u91	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u92	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u93	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u94	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u95	The next item is the debate on the bill, as amended by the Senate, concerning the procedure for the nomination of candidates for election (No. 422, 545).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u96	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u97	Mr.President, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, your Assembly wished to put on the agenda the bill on the procedure for the nomination of candidates for elections, tabled in 2015 and adopted at first reading by your Assembly in February 2017, and then by the Senate last November. At each of these stages, the Government has issued a favourable opinion on the text submitted by Laurence Dumont and Bruno Le Roux, which aims to guarantee the voluntary nature of the declarations of applications in order to prevent people from being candidates in spite of them. Today, the Government welcomes the work done by the Law Commission and its rapporteur in bringing this law into line in the committee. This reflects the broad consensus that is expressed on this subject between groups as well as between assemblies, as well as in republican continuity, since this consensus exceeds the composition of successive governments. Before I refer to the context and content of this text, I will briefly mention these candidates in spite of them: they are persons who, under the influence of fraudulent manoeuvres, appear against their will in a nomination statement. These people, often elderly, have signed without their knowledge the CERFA nomination form, which was presented to them as a petition, sponsorship or even an application for registration on the electoral lists. These irregularities, which mainly concern list voting and, more marginally, single-member or multi-member majority voting, are the result of candidates who, not finding an alternate or a sufficient number of volunteer candidates to submit a complete list, deliberately choose to complete their candidacy by registering persons without their consent. The consequences of these fraudulent manoeuvres are heavy. In the case of candidates, this means that they cannot withdraw their applications as soon as the deadline for filing is closed or when the declaration of candidature has been filed with the State service. This also results in the impossibility of obtaining the withdrawal of electoral propaganda and ballot papers on which their names appear, which is very damaging when they do not share the principles and values of the candidate holding or leading the list.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u98	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u99	For electors, these frauds are likely to alter the meaning of the vote and, above all, fuel mistrust of the electoral system. For the other candidates in the ballot, these manoeuvres introduce inequalities in the constitution of the candidatures. For those who won the election, they are prejudiced when they lead to the cancellation of the election. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem, which affects the sincerity of the vote, is at the heart of our democracy, and the Government welcomes the intensive exchanges that have taken place on this text. These fraudulent manoeuvres are not recent, as evidenced by the cancellations of elections for this reason pronounced by the administrative judge in the 1990s. More recently, in the 2014 municipal elections, 40 cases were recorded by the Ministry of the Interior in several departments, such as the Seine-Maritime, Calvados, Seine-Saint-Denis and Haute-Savoie. Cases were also reported in the departmental elections of March 2015 and in the regional elections of December 2015. These manoeuvres may have led to partial or total corrections or cancellations of ballots and to new elections. By a decision of 4 February 2015, the Conseil d'État thus confirmed the cancellation of the municipal vote of Vénissieux in March 2014 handed down by the administrative court of Lyon, taking into account the differences in votes found. Beyond legal insecurity and litigation, these irregularities undermine voters' confidence in the electoral system and in the political class, and must therefore be firmly combated. A first attempt had, moreover, already been made with the bill introduced in 2003 by the deputy Jacques Masdeu-Arus. So far, this fight has been conducted a posteriori, through criminal sanctions and sanctions imposed by the election judge. The bill that we are debating today goes further, because it allows us to act ahead of these frauds by guaranteeing the voluntary nature of the declarations of candidatures. The text thus provides for the formalisation of the consent of candidates by two provisions. The first is to add, under the signature of the CERFA nomination form, a handwritten mention of each candidate, indicating that he or she agrees to stand for election. The person in charge of the list or the candidate for the position of incumbent will be named in this handwritten mention: the introduction of another name is thus a guarantee. The second provision requires each candidate to transmit a copy of a proof of identity among the documents necessary for the submission of an application. Some of you may feel that these provisions constitute new formalities for candidates, while the procedures for submitting applications are sometimes complex and could be simplified – which is precisely what the Government is pursuing. While these questions may be correct, priority should be given to guaranteeing the candidate's consent. The affixing of a handwritten note under the signature of the CERFA form is a simple mechanism for expressing consent. If it is simple, however, it is not sufficient to guarantee the voluntary nature of an application, since this handwritten statement may be fraudulently affixed by the applicant or head of the list after the signature of the CERFA form. That is why the transmission of a copy of an identity document is an indispensable condition for guaranteeing the consent of the candidate. This is the only personal document which the candidate or head of the list cannot obtain without the knowledge of the person concerned. It differs in this respect from the certificate of registration on the lists of electors which candidates must provide and which, being a communicable document within the meaning of the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs – CADA – can be requested by a third party without the consent of the person concerned. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for a simple, proportionate and effective procedural mechanism to which the Government is in favour and which does not need to be supplemented. We will ensure that its regulatory implementation meets these three requirements of simplicity, proportionality and effectiveness. The Government is all the more in favour of this text as it has been enriched as parliamentary work progresses. By extending the scope to the various elections, it is the sincerity of all elections that is thus reinforced. As you know, during the examination of this text in the Senate, the Government introduced by amendment a provision allowing for the addition of two names to the lists of candidates for municipal elections in municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants, in metropolitan France and overseas. It was a question of responding to the difficulties that arise when a mayor resigns while the municipal council is incomplete. These difficulties, relayed in the form of an amendment by Senator Jean-Pierre Grand, are all the more glaring in the small communes where a single list has appeared and while the crisis of vocations persists. If the subject was not at the heart of the text, the Government could not ignore the problems raised and wished to provide an answer by making this optional for all municipalities with more than 1,000 inhabitants. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, UAI and NG groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is obviously not unique, but I would like to welcome it here: it is a text which, in two legislatures, has been the subject of genuine legislative co-construction by bringing together all political sensitivities. This is a testament to what our institutions can achieve together in the service of citizens. That is why it is now necessary to complete this process with the final adoption of this bill by a compliant vote with the widest possible support of your assembly. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is the state of mind with which the Government is approaching this debate: a constructive and balanced state of mind that aims to guarantee the voluntary nature of the candidatures for the various elections, which are essential to the confidence of voters in their representatives and in our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u100	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u101	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, like all those we are considering today, is part of a democratic requirement. This is, in particular, the concern to ensure the sincerity and quality of the election. As you have pointed out, Madam Minister, this text is the result of genuine co-construction. It was carried by Laurence Dumont under the previous legislature; I also participated in the work. Both of us wanted to prevent the appearance of "candidates in spite of them" through arrangements that did not increase the burden on the administrations, but made it possible to guarantee the sincerity of the applications. That's the least we can do! As you also mentioned, this text was adopted at first reading in the National Assembly unanimously on 1 February 2017; It was then adopted by the Senate without a vote or abstention on November 22, 2017. I now turn to the substance of the text. This bill deals with the procedure for the nomination of candidates for election. It aims at discouraging manoeuvres by political leaders to recruit candidates against their will to present them in different ballots. This old and worrying phenomenon has indeed experienced new and too many illustrations recently, in particular on the occasion of the municipal elections of March 2014 and then, the following year, in the departmental elections of March 2015 and the regional elections of December 2015. In most cases, a candidate or party had deceived one or more individuals by having them sign a pre-filled nomination form, presented as a petition, sponsorship or application for registration on the lists of electors. Thus, in the 2014 municipal elections, no less than 40 candidates were identified despite them, including twenty-two in Grand-Quevilly alone and six in Elbeuf. In the departmental elections of March 2015, a pair of two candidates was invested against his will in the Puy-de-Dôme and won 14.34% of the vote in the first round without campaigning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u102	I confirm it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u103	This type of behaviour is, first of all, wrong for people who are deceived. Thus, the frauds observed during the filing and registration of nomination papers directly harm the candidates despite them, especially when their name is associated with a party whose program is contrary to their values. In proportional list ballots, no voluntary withdrawal or replacement of candidates is accepted after the nomination has been filed. Only a complete withdrawal from the list is possible, but under strict conditions: the majority of its members must approve the withdrawal and the deadline for submitting nominations must not have been exceeded. Similarly, in single-member and multi-member majority elections, it is not permissible to renounce his candidacy after the deadline for the submission of declarations. Thus, the candidates despite being trapped: some of them were unable to withdraw their candidacy in time, their names appeared on campaign posters, leaflets, faith professions, etc. Similarly, they were unable to obtain the withdrawal of ballot papers bearing their names improperly. But this kind of fraud also harms the victors of the election and casts discredit on the entire political class and election. In this case, the cancellation of the ballot results in the organization of a by-election, usually more than a year later, which represents a cost to the public community and an injury to local democracy. In order to combat this growing phenomenon of fraudulent manoeuvres, the draft law adopted at first reading in the National Assembly envisages the inclusion in the electoral code of two new formalities. You have developed them at length, Madam Minister, which allows me not to return to them; I just note that the transmission of a copy of the proof of identity of the candidate or his or her alternate – the only personal document that the candidate or head of the list cannot obtain without the knowledge of the person concerned – represents a strong guarantee to ensure the consent of the candidate. This text has been completed by senators, and I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Senate; It has done a useful job and we did not consider it necessary to go back to the extended scheme. The bill has also been improved by the important provisions introduced by the Government, which take into account the reform of the non-cumulation of mandates. As this results in defections in municipal elections, the introduction of a supernumerary candidate avoids by-election in the event of the withdrawal of a candidate from a list. We are very much in favour of this measure. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and GDR groups]] As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is intended to combat dishonest and intolerable practices in democracy without unduly burdening the administrative work which must be measured. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Law Committee, who have shown a constructive spirit, and in particular my neighbour in the Remy Rebeyrotte department with whom we have discussed the proposed amendments in a simple way, as well as the heads of the various groups in the National Assembly. I believe that this text must bring together all the elected representatives of the Republic, beyond partisan divisions, and be promulgated without delay. That is why I invite you to vote in accordance with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u104	In the general debate, Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u105	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this text is to ensure that no one can, through any manipulation, find himself, without his knowledge or against his will, a candidate or alternate in an election. He received a favourable reception from all political groups when he was in the Senate and in committee, and even saw his scope expanded. It goes without saying that the recruitment of these candidates despite them is unacceptable: it is a humiliation of vulnerable people and an attack on the integrity of the democratic game. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore, of course, vote in favour of this text. He will do so with all the more ease as his members, and in particular his president Jean-Luc Mélenchon, have often had to suffer from methods of falsification, some of which, on these very benches, have made themselves a speciality: false candidates, false leaflets, false statements, infamous rumours. Almost always used by the same individuals, the means used to distort the elections are numerous. That is why the Group of the European People's Party regrets that the text under consideration today has too narrow a purpose. It could first of all have strengthened the arsenal available to the judge to stop this tendency to pollute the debate. It must be said that the timidity shown by the authors of the text, despite them undoubtedly, recalls the timidity shown by the socialist government during the case of the false leaflets of Henin-Beaumont. You have to believe that firmness was not on the agenda at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u106	Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha ha ha
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u107	In this case, when the facts were established and acknowledged by the author on television, and the will to harm was evident, the prosecutor refused to give an opinion. His supervisory authority had apparently not given any instructions to deter fraudsters. This decision is all the more regrettable since this year, a similar case has rightly caused the annulment of the legislative election of the first electoral district of the Territory of Belfort. But this text could above all have shown more ambition by proposing remedies to the deep democratic crisis in our country. For it will not be enough to ensure that candidates for elections are of their own free will; This minimum requirement will not save the Fifth Republic and its vermoluous institutions. The observation is not new: year after year, the number of citizens who deviate from the ballot box continues to increase. Of course, we regret it, but who among us could say that they have no good reason to do so? Democracy is locked and singular voices are not likely to be heard when they could endanger the oligarchy. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of ways of discouraging people from interfering in their affairs. For example, there is an obligation to obtain 500 sponsorships of elected officials in order to be able to run for office in the presidential election. This barrier to possible fantasy candidacy does not end, after voting, by showing its harmfulness. Systematicly, it becomes the cause of a media show that hides any substantive issue. To the detriment of the substantive questions too, candidates whose candidacy has an undeniable popular echo have their campaign paralyzed; their proposals are rejected as long as possible from the debate. Which bank agrees to lend to a candidate until he gets the sponsorships? None. If the legislator is so interested in this idea of sponsorship, why not substitute the idea of sponsorship by citizens for the sponsorship by elected officials? The self of the oligarchy must be put to an end in order to give political life its interest and give democracy its full meaning. Another lock that closes the political game and to which this text could have attacked: the allocation of speaking time. The March movement had protested during the presidential election on this subject, quite rightly. However, the Government plans to use in the forthcoming elections a method of calculating speaking time, which, according to Marianne newspaper, would increase the broadcasting time of the majority from twenty to fifty-one minutes, and that of France from twenty to two minutes, while these two movements obtained respectively 24 and 19.6 per cent of the votes in the presidential election. The disproportion between these two gaps is scandalous. Such manoeuvres are clearly detrimental to the expression of a plurality of opinions; But in a second stage, it is the shamefulness or, worse, cynicism and indifference that are born in our fellow citizens and that put democracy at real risk. Once again, yesterday's lesson givers do not care about consistency when it comes to defending their particular interest to the detriment of the general interest. In order to live, the Republic needs a real debate, a real confrontation of views, but every effort is made to reduce this confrontation to nothing. Don't we want to talk regularly about the idea of no longer distributing electoral propaganda to citizens, in the name of a poor pretext of savings? At the beginning of this very legislature, it was again necessary to protest and to point out how this measure would have been, if it had been taken, a denial of democracy. But the opportunity for citizens to confront points of view is not only the case of the official campaign. Pluralism of ideas does not have many defenders in the state, but it may have even fewer in the media. An election gave a striking illustration: the 2005 referendum campaign, which saw an army of zealous editorialists campaigning for the "yes" while those who defended the "no" were invariably stigmatized in every possible and imaginable way. To hear them, frogs and locusts should have fallen on our country after the vote. But the popular will was in any case of little weight in the face of the obstinacy of power: it was flouted, two years later, with the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, decided by those who now hold a consultation tailored to defend the project of Notre-Dame-des-Landes, and criticize its abandonment. Of course, not all elections give rise to such caricatural conformism. However, the fate of heterodox opinions is hardly enviable. The self-proclaimed "circle of reason" works effectively to intimidate refractories and derision. Above all, with the economic organization of the media system, the concentration of press titles in the hands of a few billionaires and the widespread exploitation of journalists and freelancers – massively hired under precarious statutes, especially as self-entrepreneurs, eager to do quickly and cheaply while serving the interests of advertising sponsors of all kinds – everything helps to make the public debate a smooth field of conformism, undermined by vexing polemics. We would like to say to journalists, to paraphrase a famous character: "Be the light of the world", enlighten your contemporaries, but we are obliged to see that absurdity dominates in the media system and that the blind search for profit leads to light "under the bushel". Finally – and this is, of course, the heart of the problem facing our country – it is the institutions themselves that must be recast into a VIth Republic. Some welcomed the entry of "civil society" into the National Assembly. "Civil society" is the expression that macroism, with a scruple of honesty – it must be recognized at least – has chosen to replace the word "people". In fact, in fact, the people did not really enter the National Assembly in 2017. What, then, is a people so largely made up of members of the affluent classes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u108	That's not true! In any case, that's not the case for me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u109	What, then, is this French people who would not be able to afford a parliamentary allowance but to feed themselves on pasta? In saying this, I am not trying to give lessons to anyone, let alone reproaching my colleagues for being what they are. I simply observe that despite the good wills – which I do not doubt for a moment – the institutions do not really allow the people to take control of their destiny and act directly in favour of the general interest. I also observe that the distribution of powers in the Fifth Republic is not balanced: the balance is so much in favour of the executive, the preponderance of the President of the Republic is such that it is right to speak of a "presidential monarchy. For many of our fellow citizens, politics is limited to putting a ballot in the ballot box once every five years: how can we not understand them? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We will vote without enthusiasm for this text without momentum. But to the Liberals who sit here, allow me to recall the words that Tocqueville spoke about the popular classes shortly before the revolution of 1848: "Do you not hear that we constantly repeat that everything above them is incapable and unworthy of governing them; that the division of goods made so far in the world is unjust; that property is based on bases that are not the fair basis? To those who are content with this bill, I send the same warning as Tocqueville: they fall asleep "on a volcano."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u111	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we support this bill, which aims to prevent a recurring and long-standing problem: the manoeuvres that can be used by list officers to put citizens on a list of candidates without their knowledge. List managers may abuse the credulity of some individuals by asking them to sign any document, even though it is actually a nomination form. As part of the constitution of lists for municipal elections, people were also deceived by believing that they were signing a petition on a market. The application shall then be submitted by the list manager against the wishes of the candidates. This bill has the advantage of having a wide interest in proportional list voting where fraud consists in registering a person as a parcel-maker despite it – this pattern corresponds to the majority of cases of fraud observed. More marginally, single-member or multi-member majority voting, in which a person is registered despite being an alternate, is also covered. In most cases, as the report points out, a candidate or party had deceived one or more persons in situations of social, educational or age-related fragility by having them sign a nomination form, submitted as a petition, sponsorship or application for registration on the electoral roll. The registration of candidates in spite of them is therefore a problematic phenomenon which must be combated firmly. Many disputes took place in municipal or departmental elections, and some elected officials were cancelled, to the detriment of those elected from the opposing lists who could no longer, as a result of the cancellation, sit on the municipal council. Such frauds were observed in the last municipal elections in Seine-Maritime – where I am elected – where the prefecture eventually asked the prosecution to investigate some 30 candidates of the National Front who would have been candidates in spite of them. In Harfleur, in my constituency, again in 2014, several members of the Front national list complained about their listing and, for some, discovered their election at the occasion of their convening to the first city council! Such abuses can no longer be tolerated in a mature democracy; I therefore believe that it is essential to make the conditions for submitting a candidature to an election more stringent. The mechanism proposed by the text appears simple and effective. The aim is to strengthen the procedures for collecting the consent of candidates in order to prevent any attempt at fraud by list managers. Two additional formalities are proposed to ensure that the consent of the signatories is expressed as clearly as possible. On the one hand, proof of identity will now be required of the candidates and their alternates – in addition to the certificate of registration on the list of electors of the municipality in which they are present, which is issued by the mayor, and can be replaced by a document that can prove their tax relationship with that municipality if they are not qualified as an elector. This involves ensuring that the approach is personal and voluntary. On the other hand, the application form of the Ministry of the Interior must now be accompanied not only by a signature but also by a handwritten statement by which the parcels or substitutes confirm their commitment to apply on the list led by a named official. The addition of such a sentence will ensure that the candidate's approach is voluntary and fully informed. It is a simple mechanism for expressing consent. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the REM group]] We are pleased that the Senate has extended the scope of these provisions to all local elections, including overseas, and that the transmission of a copy of the proof of identity has been made mandatory for candidates and alternates in the parliamentary, departmental and senatorial elections. These new procedures for collecting consent seem relevant to us: that is why we will again vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u113	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering has the merit of responding to a problem identified and recognised by a large part of those sitting on these benches. We welcome a consensus and common sense text, which aims to preserve the genuine nature of political commitment and the smooth conduct of electoral exercises essential to our democracy. A few known cases are sufficient to make the problem identifiable. In any case, no one should be a candidate in an election without consent or even having thought about it! The technique in question, which was again practiced in the last municipal elections, is old and now well known: bad political parties or movements of voluntary candidates, especially for list elections, deceive citizens – sympathizers or not – in order to declare them candidates in spite of them. How can we tolerate these practices that are similar to identity theft? Misleaded people only discovered evil once the list was published and then asked for their withdrawal from it – in vain. How can we accept what is still a violation of the privacy of individuals who, thinking of signing a petition, sponsorship, registration or membership in a movement, find themselves named on posters and ballot papers? How can we stand up to unscrupulous politicians being flouted, through intimidation or deliberately dolosive and fraudulent schemes, the free consent of people? Above all, how can we accept, in a modern democracy, irregularities aimed at deceiving voters, which sometimes affect the sincerity of the elections until they need to be cancelled in part or in full? It is urgent to address this problem today in order to preserve the forthcoming electoral deadlines of such irregularities and, ultimately, to prevent legal and democratic insecurity that is detrimental to all. The discussions that have already been the subject of this bill in the Senate and the National Assembly have made it possible to enrich its content, so that it now covers all the situations in which irregularities have been observed. It guarantees a priori the voluntary nature of the nomination papers in order to prevent people from becoming candidates in spite of them. In this area, as in many others, prevention is better than a posteriori sanction. This text also ensures the voluntary nature of the moral and civic approach of political commitment. It seems to me essential to preserve this value of commitment to which everyone must aspire. Under no circumstances is it a matter of complexing or increasing the formalities necessary for declarations of candidature, but of guaranteeing the unequivocal consent of all candidates. By admitting that the handwritten mention can be obtained fraudulently, the production of a proof of identity is supposed to complete the device and offer a new guarantee. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, NG and GDR groups]] Some will say that it is a law for little, but the problem is serious, and this proposal, the discussion of which has been usefully revived by the New Left Group, gives it a good answer. That is why the La République en Marche group will vote in its favour – which will prevent our colleagues from further disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u115	But where are the unregistered MPs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u116	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u117	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was tabled in the National Assembly in the previous legislature by Bruno Le Roux and Laurence Dumont – among others. The authors of this text were of the view that the provisions of the Electoral Code relating to the procedure for the nomination of candidates for elections did not protect themselves against "frauds and the submission of candidatures without the knowledge of the agreement of the persons". The result would be the presence of "candidates in spite of them" – in the terms used in previous parliamentary debates – in particular in the ballots. They therefore proposed that, in addition to the signature, a handwritten mention of the nomination papers be made mandatory. The objective is clear: to put an end to the manoeuvres, such as those we observed in 2014, aimed at recruiting candidates against their will in different elections. Of course, according to article L._248 of the Electoral Code, the irregularities thus committed can be punished and the election of the candidates involved cancelled by the election judge. But such a cancellation prejudices the victors, who must submit to a by-election even though they are not responsible for the frauds found. It is therefore necessary to act upstream, in order to make these manoeuvres impossible. This is all the more important since the manipulations organized to fraudulently obtain consent undermine the sincerity of the elections. They therefore constitute serious infringements of the proper functioning of democracy. According to a principle to which we are all, here, deeply attached – this is in any case the case of my group's parliamentarians – the commitment of all candidates – including parcels and substitutes – must be based on free and informed consent, which the public authorities, in particular the departments of the departmental prefectures, must verify before validating the candidatures. Consent: This is the key concept. This concept is found in many texts, and we will be discussing it again soon: we will start thinking about this issue! French law is well known, since it has been included in articles 1109 et seq. of the Civil Code since 1804. For example, it governs some of the relationships between patients and the medical profession. This is also reflected in European law: the GDPR, the European regulation on the protection of personal data, which defines precisely the conditions for the collection of consent: "Consent must be given by a clear positive act by which the data subject manifests in a free, specific, informed and unambiguous manner his or her agreement to the processing of personal data concerning him or her, for example by means of a written declaration, including by electronic means". It is therefore proposed that we amend the articles that enact the nomination rules for each election to provide for a handwritten form allowing the person concerned to indicate his or her consent to be a candidate or a substitute. While this bill serves its objectives positively, it does not go far enough. In my view and in the sense of some of the members of our group The Republicans should go to the end of the process by adding to this handwritten mention the precision of political affiliation or, failing that, of non-membership. Far from being super-fetched, such an addition would show that the potential candidate has sufficient knowledge of the project in which he or she is engaged. In addition, it would force all parties to play the game of democracy equally by preventing them from recruiting "candidates in spite of them". Otherwise, there will be more in the future. In this regard, I would like to quote article 4 of our Constitution, in Title I, "Sovereignty": "The political parties and groups contribute to the expression of the vote. They form and operate freely. They must respect the principles of national sovereignty and democracy. » "They shall contribute to the implementation of the principle set out in the second paragraph of Article 1e in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. » It should be noted that, according to the terms of this paragraph, "The law promotes equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elected office, as well as to professional and social responsibilities. » Article 4 finally states that "The law guarantees pluralistic expressions of opinion and the equitable participation of political parties and groups in the democratic life of the Nation. » [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UAI groups]] In order to do this, I will propose amendments in a few minutes to include the inclusion of membership of a political party in the declaration tabled in the prefecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u118	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u119	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the proposal for a law on how to submit candidates for election is complementary to the work we have been carrying out since the beginning of our mandate to draw up new outlines of French political life. Like the law on the modernization of public life or the work carried out in the working groups "For a new National Assembly", this text must enable us to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens, partly initiated by this fraudulent practice, referred to as "candidates in spite of them". Who was attentive to the last municipal, departmental and regional elections, in 2014 and 2015, was able to become aware of the consequent development of this manoeuvre, which is so damaging to us, that it involves registering individuals in an election without having informed them of it or even having obtained their consent. However, I would like to point out that these relatively recent examples must not forget the long-standing nature of the problem: it was already well identified a few years ago or even several decades ago. It is therefore interesting to respond today to a phenomenon which has rightly been of concern to us and to our fellow citizens. This bill aims to guarantee the very foundation of representative democracy as we practice it in France, namely the presentation of a citizen as a candidate for a vote. It seems to me essential to be able to secure this first stage if we want to be able to move forward on the rest. The proposed double guard will bring greater clarity as to the commitment of the candidates and, in a way, will symbolically attest to their full investment. The affixing of a handwritten statement by the candidates or their alternates to certify their willingness to run for the ballot in question and the production of a copy of a proof of identity are two simple ways of preventing anyone from escaping or circumventing the requirements of the nomination, without burdening the process. As with the examination in committee, I would like to welcome the work done by the Senate, whose amendments have led to the introduction of the obligation to transmit a copy of a proof of identity and to generalize the new rules to all elections, thus placing the elected representatives of the Republic on an equal footing with the citizens. Another very interesting adjustment introduced by the Senate is the possibility, for municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants, of adding two names to the lists in order to avoid the holding of by-elections in the event that an elected official is forced to resign in order to comply with the rule of non-cumulation of mandates. As a local elected representative, I consider that this relaxation responds positively to the problems of instability caused by these resignations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] So this is a simple and secure mechanism, which I am sure will participate in our work to regain the confidence of the French, all the more so since its almost unanimous adoption by the two chambers at first reading gives it a citizens' reach. The MODEM and related groups welcome the consensus that this text has generated and, as a result of their commitment to a profound reform of the rules of our political life, will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u121	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u122	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a bill at second reading after unanimous adoption by this House. The IUD, Action and Independent Group is obviously in favour of an adjustment necessary to put an end to fraudulent manoeuvres, intolerable in a great democracy like ours. This has been said: it is dishonest filings of applications of citizens who become candidates in spite of them... which is still remarkable. And there is, of course, a harm caused to these people, then associated against their will with political parties or tendencies. We don't think enough about the damage this can cause, to the bottom of our territories. I am pleased that the Senate, at first reading, has improved the text by extending it to all elections, to those specific to the Overseas Territories. In general, this proposal is in the right direction. I recall that there were still twenty-two "candidates in spite of them" in eight different cities, which raises questions about the consequences to be drawn from them. It is not enough to solve the problem, it is also necessary that those responsible for these fraudulent applications be prosecuted. Are such prosecutions planned, minister? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the NG group]] I, too, associate myself with the substantive remarks made on the possibility of declaring political affiliation. The fact is that this text will also open up a debate on other issues – I am thinking of the bill on electronic voting. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Madam Minister, for even for power of attorney, we cannot yet benefit from this mechanism in our territories. You see that there is still room for progress in the electoral code. However, I repeat: our group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u124	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the bill tabled by our colleagues in the New Left Group brings our discussions to a level that we know too much. Indeed, we in this House, from the day after our election, had to decide on the example, of which we, first as candidates and then as elected representatives, had to be strong. This proposal for a law to combat piped candidates is, of course, reactionary and factual; It follows the so-called "candidates in spite of them" cases in which residents – such as this couple of non-agenaires living in the centre of France, whose woman had Alzheimer's disease – found themselves unknowingly registered on lists of candidates for the territorial elections. Consideration of this text is therefore an opportunity to reiterate and reaffirm to our fellow citizens our will to do everything possible to restore confidence and transparency to our commitments. A stumbling block, however: while these acts of electrifying deception are repeated at every deadline, should we wait for this new public statement of false-true candidates in the elections of 2014 and 2015 to legislate on moralization? Should it be noted that in the suburbs of Rouen, on a list of thirty-five candidates, twenty-two considered that they had been deceived and had asked for the withdrawal of the list of candidates from the race at the town hall, or that "in the Essonne and the Hauts-de-Seine, outgoing mayors and their team organized the systematic screening of candidates on the Front national lists of their commune to have them renounce their candidacy" to remind, ladies and gentlemen, the importance and seriousness of the strong act of the candidate's commitment? Presumably, yes. Even if, in discussing and voting the texts for confidence in political life, we have resolutely committed ourselves to transparency and exemplaryness. This bill obliges us even more to recall and expose the fundamentals of a candidate to an election, some of them neglecting them. It is very clear that the commitment must be voluntary and informed, thoughtful and personal, because it is rightly referred to as a unilateral act, a promise of objectives to be achieved and of means to be implemented, a profession of faith for which the candidate requests a plebiscite. Its corollary – no one can be the candidate, the packager or the substitute registered "without knowing of his own free will" and even less the candidate, the packager or the substitute providence – is equally undeniable. It is regrettable to note that the effort made by our predecessors to simplify and clarify electoral procedures and procedures in 2013 and 2015 is not enough for candidates in the elections. The current provisions of the Electoral Code ensure the expression of this commitment by the formalities required at the time of nomination in a single-member or binominal ballot for candidates, and in a list vote for the top of the list. We would have thought that, in essence, without the aim of further and more detailed legislation, this enlightened and untied pledge of will would be understood de facto by all the candidates, even if they applied for the term as an alternate, as a package maker, or even the last name inscribed to close the municipal or senatorial list. Let me therefore find it a shame to have the discussion that we must have today, even though I note the quality work that is being done by Members of Parliament and by senators. This work is reflected in a text that is eminently more formalistic and conditional than I would like, especially in our reflections on the bill for a state in the service of a society of trust and the objective of simplifying our standards. As we discuss the need to re-establish a more flexible and serene relationship between our administrations and our fellow citizens, we are looking at, as opposed to, a proposal that adds to the procedure – and rightly so, considerations made of the electoral events that are continually ragged and repeated after the campaign – and which requires for the validity of the candidacy the handwritten mention of an agreed commitment to be included. Without a doubt this will guarantee the file. To this end, I would like to emphasize and welcome the indiscriminate treatment of elections, the willingness of senators to apply the provisions of this Act to all local and national elections, all elections, without any provision for any relief for any candidate for the deputation or the senator, for the tutorship or for the substitution. [[Applause on many benches in the REM group]] We must therefore be satisfied with this bill, although I note and stress that it is counter-current and goes against everything we want in terms of clarifying and simplifying our standards, which we will be debating next week in the sitting. Unfortunately, however, a few criminals and fraudsters are forcing us today to discuss the need for more formalism because they have always, and still today, preferred to trust mistrust, and have done and will continue to play the perpetual game of mistrust.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u126	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u127	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning of the legislature, we voted a bill for confidence in public life. This trust cannot come only from the law. It will also come from behaviour, transparency and respect for promises... but still a little bit of the law. It is clear that there are certain shortcomings and that they should be stopped. It is the whole purpose of this bill that is presented to us at second reading by the New Left Group. In its version of the Senate, it is therefore intended to complete, for all elections, the procedures for submitting candidatures, thus responding to the so-called business of the candidates despite them – or, to use the word of a well-known cyclist, recalled by our colleague Jean Terlier, the candidates nominated "without knowing of their own free will". Indeed, the law in force specifies that the nomination of candidates for election is a personal act that must be informed and voluntary. However, if the application is individual, the filing procedures may be collective. The list manager or a packager may therefore proceed, for all the members of the list, with the application: he shall recover all the necessary documents and cause the candidates to sign individual declarations in the form of CERFA forms. This is where the block can hurt, since the consent of the candidates can be obtained in a hijacked way, especially when it comes to people who are not sufficiently vigilant or in a position of weakness, who, for example, may feel like they are signing a simple petition. In Orléans, a non-agenary with Alzheimer's disease was included, despite her, on a list of electors for municipal elections. However, once the list has been registered by the prefecture, no voluntary withdrawal or replacement of candidates is possible. This practice has led to complaints by some blurred people, particularly because of the damage to their image, and has even led to the cancellation of certain elections, since the sincerity of the vote is questioned. The solutions proposed by the proposed legislation, i.e. express written consent, unambiguously, to be a candidate for an election and the request for a photocopy of a proof of identity, are therefore welcome. However, there are questions about the penalties provided for by the law in force, which do not seem sufficient to combat this type of fraud: they are imposed after the election and do not prevent them from being mentioned in spite of them. On the other hand, while this bill tends to increase the constraints on making applications – an already complex process – these constraints remain acceptable and justified in view of the negative consequences that may result from the practices I have mentioned. By the way, allow me to return to the last parliamentary elections, in which some candidates were able to deplore the rigor shown by the propaganda commissions. Some have, in fact, sometimes been overly zealous, particularly with regard to the association of blue, white and red colours on the same document. So I had to retouch my poster in order to pass from white to grey the color of my substitute's blouse because, on a blue background, its proximity to the red of my tie – what an idea, you will tell me, to wear a tie of this color! -...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u128	[[Smile]] It's the only time I take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u129	...was supposed to mislead voters. In another department, a poster combining orange, purple and white was also refused on the grounds that these colours were too close to those of the tricolor flag. In addition, delays in the delivery of propaganda documents were very difficult. If I were facetious, what happens to me sometimes, I would say that these constraints may have – in the end – to bring us on the path of the famous dematerialization of the propaganda desired by the Ministry of the Interior and that we have systematically refused to vote under the former legislature. As draftsman of the opinion of the 'Political, Cultural and Associative Life' programme, I was the first to oppose this dematerialisation, at least with regard to local elections, thinking that, if it had to be put into practice, it was preferable to do so by starting with the presidential election, the most mediated. I would also like to welcome the inclusion in this bill, at the initiative of the Government, of a provision to add two additional candidates to the lists in municipal elections: it will limit, in communes with a population of 1,000 or more, cases where the full renewal of municipal councils from a single list is made compulsory by the vacancy of a seat.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u130	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u131	The communes can be at the mercy of a municipal councillor who uses blackmail upon resignation to establish his power, or simply suffer the consequences of resignations for personal constraints. This bill is consensual: I understand that it has been able on the one hand to resist the alternation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u132	[[Smile]] Like you, Paul!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u133	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups as well as on several benches of the NG and GDR groups]] ...and on the other hand it will be voted by all in a good unanimity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u134	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u135	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the New Left Group for allowing us, through this bill, to conclude a legislative process initiated under the previous legislature and resumed in the Senate last November. So far, the submission of candidatures for parliamentary, departmental or list elections in the various territorial assemblies was based on a principle of simplification: the alternate, replacement or parcelier candidate gave a mandate to the holder or leader of the list to apply on his or her behalf. Unfortunately, some have taken advantage of this simplified procedure to pervert local democracy and resort to candidates in spite of them. It is not said that these riggers are not the same as those who, throughout the day, complain about new standards that they have of course helped to create. Welcome to the false ass ball! Yes, unfortunately, a new standard must be created to avoid such deviations: now, if you vote on this bill, any candidate must, on the nomination paper, add a written statement of his or her hand giving his or her consent to be a candidate for the election in question on the list led by Mr. or Mrs. X or on the side of the incumbent candidate Mr. Y. At the request of the Senate, he or she will also be required to provide a copy of an identification document, which is such as to certify the consent and voluntary engagement of the individual in the electoral process. Taking advantage of this bill, the Senate also wanted, on a voluntary basis, to propose that the lists submitted for municipal elections in communes with more than 1000 inhabitants could contain two more names than the number of posts to be filled, thus allowing, if necessary, to supplement the municipal council rather than to hold too many by-elections. This proposal aims in particular to take into account the greater mobility of municipal councillors in our communes as well as the consequences of the law of 14 February 2014 prohibiting the cumulation of local executive functions with the mandate of MP or senator, whose effects a number of us have been able to measure. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the NG group]] As you have understood, our group will vote on this bill, which was placed on the agenda by the New Left Group and reported by our colleague and nevertheless friend, Cécile Untermaier, who, like Marcel Proust, reminds us that "everything that depends only on our will can be done". Nice summary of parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u136	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u137	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to innovate since the amendments are now available on the tablet that each of you must have in hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u138	With a superb photo of the previous legislature, you have to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u139	Don't worry, I'll keep it for the paper version.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u140	We come to a series of amendments that we owe to the hard work of Mr Jean-Louis Masson. You don't have to defend them all, Mr. Masson... In any event, I give you the floor to support Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u141	I will defend all my amendments, while speaking, essentially, only on this one. Far be it from me not to consider this proposal intelligent, for it is. Indeed, it contributes to the moralization of public life, and in this respect is fully in line with the approach initiated during the 15th legislature. We are nevertheless a few to think that it would be interesting to go a little further by obliging candidates to clearly indicate their political affiliation or, failing that, to specify that they are without a label. The question of their political affiliation is in any case already raised at the time of the filing of their file in the prefecture, not because the electoral code requires it but because the prefectural services indicate that they need it in order to draw up a statistical count.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u142	To anticipate the results of the Senate elections...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u143	It is also important to us, in the name of transparency, that the person who commits himself or herself as a substitute, substitute or parceler know to which party the candidate who requests him or her belongs, in accordance with the nomenclature in use. We would therefore like Article 1e r A to be amended accordingly. It seems to me that we would honor ourselves to take this little extra step. If we do not, we will see other candidates appearing in spite of them, or at least candidates presenting themselves without knowing the political affiliation of the one or those who requested them. As for the amendments I have tabled on the rest of the bill, they are based on the same grounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments are not without common sense: the reflection on which they are based is very welcome. However, we aim here for informed consent to be a candidate. This informed consent is fully guaranteed by two things: the handwritten mention and – even more – the production of a proof of identity that normally only the candidate himself – except for major documentary fraud, of course – can produce. The objective is simple: we wanted to address the problem posed in the least burdensome and serious way possible for prefectural services. Another point: any addition – even the one you propose, dear colleague, which might seem relevant – increases the risk of litigation and challenge. I fear that by increasing the proposed mechanism, we will have an opposite effect to the one we are seeking, namely, to guarantee the sincerity of the vote. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable, despite the quality of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u147	This amendment is the first in a series of sixteen to supplement the various articles of the bill with an identical formula. The Government's position will therefore be the same for all of them. As you know, Mr President, your Committee on Laws, like many Members present, would like this bill, tabled under the previous legislature, to be adopted as quickly as possible, without prolonging the parliamentary procedure. However, given the small number of amendments under discussion, the objective of a consistent adoption seems easy to achieve. This first reason, in form, explains that the Government does not wish your amendments to be voted on. On the merits, it seems to me that the mention of the applicant's label would not provide any additional guarantees to ensure that the application is genuinely personal and voluntary. I remind you that the political label is declarative and freely chosen by the candidate. There is no pre-established list of candidates and a candidate or list of candidates may even apply for registration without a label. This label shall be freely indicated by the candidate in his or her nomination form. The requirement to mention it twice, at the time of handwritten confirmation of consent and in the nomination form would – perhaps – lead to inconsistencies. It would also be a source of complexity and even litigation – as the rapporteur has just pointed out. Since such a reference is not strictly useful, it does not seem to us desirable, in the event that it is missing in the application file, to make the procedure for the declaration of candidates more complex. For all these reasons, the Government is asking you, Mr. Member, to withdraw this amendment, as well as the following amendments, which have the same purpose. Otherwise, I would be forced, which would not be very pleasant either for you or for me to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u148	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u149	We will follow the advice of the Commission and the Government. The proposed provision is confusing and misleading; We find it unnecessary to add it to a text that wants to be as light as possible – even if it is tantamount to establishing an additional standard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u150	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u151	We are used to hearing expressions from the Republicans group to defend the rural world. But I, who have the rural world in my constituency, can tell you that, very often, in the villages, the candidatures are without label.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u152	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u153	Very often, there is only one list and, very often, this list contains all the political colours: it is the interest of the village that prevails.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u155	It would be a shame to force candidates by law to display a label – because that is the meaning of the amendment – while, in many cases, that is not what motivates them to apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u156	This could even deter them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u157	The professions of faith, the clarification of his commitment, the commitment to the service of the public, that, yes, it's something good. The political label, on the other hand, does not seem necessary – and it is a communist who tells you, a communist who assumes his own label without problem! For municipal elections, that is not a good thing. I will therefore vote against the amendment – but if you withdraw it, dear colleague, there will not even be a need to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u158	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u159	Mr Lecoq, perhaps you have not read in detail the amendments we are proposing, but the possibility of being without a label is foreseen. It is quite possible to declare themselves "without a label". I know very well that in villages or medium towns there are very often lists without labels, or at least whose top of the list, or even the majority of the members are without labels. Madam Minister, I do not think it is an insult to democracy to display its membership, or non-membership, of a political party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u160	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u161	It is quite honourable to engage politically in a party, just as it is quite honourable to stand without a label. There's no reason to hide it. That is why I am maintaining my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u162	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u163	He is defended, Mr President, as well as the following.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u164	Amendment No 3 has been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u165	Amendment No 4 has been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u166	Amendment No 5 has been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u167	Amendment No 6 has been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u168	On this article, I have before me two amendments, Nos 7 and 8, which have already been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u169	On this article, I have before me eight amendments, Nos 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, which have already been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u170	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u171	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u172	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u173	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Olivier Faure and Serge Letchimy and members of the New Left and related group, aimed at facilitating the exit of the estate indivision and relaunching housing policy overseas (No. 475, 547).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u174	Mr Serge Letchimy, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u175	Mr President, Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the attention paid to this text of vital importance for the overseas countries and territories. I would also like to thank all the parliamentarians with whom we have had multiple consultations to move forward on this vital issue, the respective orders of lawyers and notaries, who have done a great deal of work, Senator Soilihi, who has also done a great deal of work with his report, and, last but not least, the overseas delegation of our house, whose work has also been supportive. This text, I said, responds to a considerable difficulty, which has arisen for many years. The municipalities and EPCI – public institutions for inter-communal cooperation – of Martinique, Guadeloupe and Guyana have mobilized a great deal to find a solution on the issue of the exit from the division. In particular, I would like to acknowledge Ms. Samantha Chevrolat's civic contribution as part of her academic report for the post-graduate degree in notariat. It was on the basis of the proposals that we were able to draft the text. She is present in our gallery this afternoon and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to greet her, as I greet Senator Catherine Conconne with her. We are experiencing a very special situation overseas that blocks or renders sterile any development policy, among other consequences. In Martinique, for example, 40% of private land is in disjunct situations. In some municipalities, particularly in Macouba, this proportion is even 83%, reaching about 50% in the city of Fort-de-France and 25% in Diamant. This situation prevents us from making the most of real estate and land in the context of policies, including social policies, housing and equipment. The abandonment of the land following the impossibility of settling certain successions also creates what are called "deep teeth", abandoned land, with serious health consequences, such as chikungunya, which has caused many deaths in Reunion, or dengue, as seen in Martinique and elsewhere. This also has consequences for public safety, many abandoned houses being squatted, and for taxation, since the municipalities cannot take advantage of these properties. I do not want to give an aesthetic description of a serious phenomenon here, but to affirm the will to unblock the economic situation in order to make it healthy. The decline in neighbourhoods and town centres is, I repeat, the cause of serious problems. Beyond these financial, technical, safety and health aspects, I am particularly concerned about the stability of family organization. One might wonder about the origins of such a situation: it is due to history, colonization, transmissions and filiations, but also to the very late setting up of the cadastre overseas – La Réunion has experienced the same problem. All this led us to think about finding solutions. In the case of indivisions, the civil code, which is very clear, only provides for a rule in the context of sales or sharing – that is, acts of disposition – that is, unanimity. However, it is all the more difficult to collect because many Martinique, Guadeloupéans and Guyanais live outside their original territory. The two-thirds majority can only be used in very specific cases, in this case the acts of administration, rental, lease and, of course, sale of movable property. Reforms have taken place, notably in 2014 for the divestiture of agricultural land in disjunct situations. More recently, in Corsica, where the need for title in parallel to the exit of the division made the situation special, and where the acquisitive requirements put in place did not have a legal basis, this bias was the solution to recognise acts of notoriety, the period of appeal being reduced from thirty years to five. Apart from that, the only possibility for us was to be bold. In this regard, I solemnly want to thank the Government for having accepted – I tell you in the eye, Madam Minister – a first policy of differentiation. This last term is dear to you, and it is also important to me, because it reflects the need to adapt policies to local realities, avoiding copy-paste. It is not a question of calling into question the respect of the law of property, but of trying to find solutions. In our negotiations with the State, we have therefore endeavoured to secure the text, to give it an exceptional character without prejudice to the constitutional right of property. Such a balance was not easy to find, but we have succeeded, I believe, in this achievement. Article 1 gives the notary the opportunity to transfer the parcels on the basis of a simple majority – 50% plus one vote – of the indivisaries. Of course, if people in situations of fragility or weakness – minor children, protected adults, surviving spouses remaining in the dwelling or "suspected absent", according to the legal expression consecrated – are involved, the transfer is not possible, because they must be protected. While the terms of the assignment should be organised, minority indivisors should also be offered an opportunity to appeal. You, Madam Minister, wanted to preserve the rights of the majority group; I thank you for the dialogue that allowed us to insist and include sharing in this bill, in addition to the divestiture. The objective of this text, both in my mind and in the minds of those who have contributed to it, is not speculative and real estate delivery to the benefit of housing dynamics; It is also in the settlement of the estates, in the possibility thus offered, through the division of estate, to families that tear themselves up to structure. It's a complex thing, I know, but we have to take care of it. Secured in space, since it falls within the framework of Article 73 of the Constitution, this text is also in time: it is intended to apply for ten years, as is the case for Corsica. However, I am sure we will be able to renew its provisions after eight or nine years. But we will discuss it again when the time comes: it will also allow us to take stock. This text also allows us to go much further, as our discussions have led us to address other very important issues. I report them quickly, because our exchanges will allow them to be deepened. This is, for example, the technical issue of sharing costs, so-called sharing taxation, which is very burdensome. An amendment will be tabled on this subject, which I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to examine in the broadest possible spirit. I also place a great deal of emphasis on another somewhat complex subject, the cantonment of emoluments, to prevent them from being considered liberals, taxable at 30% or 60%, which penalizes heirs in the case of indivision. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] In conclusion, I would like to thank the Government and all the groups. If this text were voted tonight, it would give two major solutions to the overseas world: in addition to paving the way for a policy of intelligent and realistic legislative differentiation, it would give a new breath to the development of our countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u177	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u178	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, overseas land issues are an issue that most of you are familiar with. In the majority of our territories, this is an old problem, each of which measures on a daily basis the negative effects on economic and social development. The subject is well documented, in particular by a report produced in 2014 by the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development, or by the report of 23 June 2016 of the Senate delegation to the overseas region, coordinated by Mr Soilihi, whom I welcome. The causes of these difficulties may be multiple – articulation with custom in some territories, at stake of the fifty geometric steps in others – but almost all share the burden of indivision. For our fellow citizens, situations of indivisibility have become inextricable, because, as you said, the rapporteur said, they are the result of unsettled, and sometimes unopened, estate devolutions over several generations. Thus, in Martinique, 26% of private land is now managed in individuals and an additional 14% correspond to open estates. I myself was able to see this by going to Fort-de-France with you, Mr rapporteur, on the ground, and I thank you for that. In Mayotte, the territory of some communes is almost entirely in an individual situation. Three quarters of the village of Chiconi is covered by two land titles established in the 1960s. In French Polynesia, the numerous indivisions sometimes bring together hundreds of unliquidated estates for four to five generations, and fuel the abundant litigation of what is called land affairs. Generally speaking, there are cascades of unsettled estates over several generations and shares that have not been made or recorded according to the rules, sometimes between tens or even several hundred, of individual rights holders. This leads to problems, sometimes an impossibility, in the application of the rules governing the administration of the common law division based on the rule of unanimity or two-thirds of the undivided rights. This also results in frozen land, abandoned buildings, abusive appropriation, in short, a real disorder resulting from an initial legal disorder. Indivision is endemic. We cannot be satisfied with this situation. That is why, Mr. Rapporteur, the Government has decided to support your initiative. Since the tabling of this bill, we have engaged with you, with the overseas parliamentarians and with the Committee on Laws, in substantive exchanges, often technical but of high quality, to reach a balanced and solid text this evening, I hope. This text has given rise to hope: many ultramarine Members have demonstrated, and will no doubt demonstrate during this evening's debates, their willingness to bring their stone to the building. It is also the strength of the overseas world to know how to unite when the collective interest is at stake. This is not the first time that progress can be made on land issues overseas. As early as 2009, the law authorized the establishment of a public interest group to collect all the elements necessary for the reconstitution of property titles in the overseas departments and in Saint-Martin, for land and real estate. It must be acknowledged that, very quickly, the creation of a single IPTF in the overseas countries appeared impossible, which led to the law of 17 October 2013 correcting the scheme. In Mayotte, these arrangements take shape. The planning law on real equality overseas, the EROM law, carried by Ericka Bareigts, which I welcome, has indeed allowed the establishment of an emergency land commission, which prefigures the IPTF. Its installation is currently under way. In French Polynesia, the announced land court is also being set up and will start operating in 2018. This is obviously not enough, we all recognize. I know that other territories are waiting for structures to be put in place to deal with the issue of title. I hope that, in the coming months, solutions will emerge that are operational and fiscally realistic. We will need to involve the presidents of the affected communities in this reflection. Finally, I would like to point out that the EROM Act has also dealt with acts of notoriety which establish that possession is acquired. It secured them by closing the disputes, which it limits to five years for buildings located in Guadeloupe, Martinique, La Réunion, Guiana, Saint-Martin and Mayotte. On 1 December, I signed the implementing decree for this text, which entered into force on 1 January 2018. We must, however, do more, which is why we are gathered this evening. In these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, the Government agrees that we must try to go further on issues of indivision, respecting property rights and the principle of equality before the law. The principle of equality of French citizens before the law requires us to put in place a mechanism that is proportionate to the ultramarine stakes, to the "specific characteristics and constraints" of the overseas countries and territories, in order to take over the constitutional text. That is why we must limit the proposed adaptations to the strict local needs, no more or less. As for property, I do not teach you anything here, it is one of the human rights enshrined in articles 2 and 17 of the 1789 Declaration. As a result, the limits to its exercise must be justified on grounds of general interest and proportionate to the objective, which you will most certainly achieve this evening. In other words, as you said, Mr rapporteur, let us be bold, but we must ensure that the interests of each of the parties are respected. The text of the Law Committee goes very far, in particular by proposing a very low majority threshold to trigger the sale or sharing of undivided property. I have made the choice of accompanying this decisive direction, but we must, in return, balance the mechanism. That is the subject of the Government's amendments, which I will present to you in a few minutes. [[Applause]] I am therefore pleased that we have the opportunity to debate this subject today and to reach a solid text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u179	In the general discussion, the floor was for Ms. Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u180	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to extend to our colleague rapporteur, Mr Serge Letchimy, my sincere congratulations on the work he has done in good intelligence, with talent and stubbornness, on this subject. The examination of this bill is in a way the culmination of a long road initiated by him, but also by many of our ultramarine colleagues in order to facilitate access to land on our territories. You will also allow me to thank the New Left Group to which I belong, and with it all my colleagues, particularly from the hexagon, who have chosen to include this bill in the first niche of the quinquennium reserved for our group. Evidence, if necessary, that, on these benches, we are committed to considering overseas as a priority of public action. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that these four small articles on which we have to debate today constitute a real revolution for our territories. By making it easier to leave the estate by way of derogation from the unanimity rule, this text also gives its full legitimacy to the principle of adaptation enshrined in article 73 of the Constitution. As you know, for us MPs elected in overseas constituencies, this power to adapt national rules to the characteristics, constraints and interests of the different territories of the Republic is useful and valuable. I therefore dare to believe that this text not only solves legal problems which often cause the paralysis of our territories, but also provides a solution to family disputes, which are often old, that tear our compatriots apart. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the weight of history and the tragedies that accompany it is still heavy, and that our relationship to the earth is often marked by a strong and tenacious symbolic attachment. Because of its apparently protective nature with regard to family heritage, it is therefore true to say that indivision is not necessarily perceived negatively in our territories. Nevertheless, the development of this legal system has become imperative, if not vital, for our regions. As I speak, the number of unsettled estates is flourishing all over the overseas. Often, sharing has not been done or recorded according to the rule, over several generations. We frequently face an impressive kyriella of undivided rights holders, sometimes up to several hundred. Combined with the high demographic pressure and massive urbanization that our territories have experienced since 1945, this stalemate of indivision has led to a dramatic land freeze, which is already very rare on our islands. This land embolism is all the more worrying in areas where housing shortages and the problem of land-use planning are cruelly endemic. Thus, I would like to say frankly to the critics of this text, it is not a question of facilitating the liquidation of the real estate assets of our compatriots, of favouring fragmentation or of weakening the power of the rightholders. The aim of this text is to remove the obstacles to the desire to increase the supply of housing in our countries, to rehabilitate homes that are sometimes old, and to enable local authorities to effectively combat unhealthy housing and, consequently, to combat the spread of epidemics. Finally, it is sometimes a question of allowing us to take over houses transformed into squats by offenders in the heart of our cities. I would also like to thank our rapporteur for taking the precaution to clarify the situations in which this simplification of the inheritance procedure will not apply, for example when it comes to the dwelling space and where the surviving spouse of the deceased resides. I am also satisfied that there is a right of opposition for unmarried individuals who would not be in favour of such a project. I hope that these precautions will not unduly limit the scope of this text, long awaited by our people and communities. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to have a period of application for all these provisions limited to 10 years, in order to assess the practical effectiveness of these provisions in our territories. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the New Left Group will be voting for this text with enthusiasm and, above all, with the hope of ending this problem, which hinders the development of our ultramarine regions. [[Applause]] In conclusion, I would like to ask the Government about the situation of many non-taxable and insolvent overseas families, for whom the use of a notary is not financially feasible. I hope that the Government will encourage the establishment of financial support mechanisms for the families seeking assistance, in order to support them in their efforts, as some local authorities are doing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u181	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u182	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I have a thought for my friends, brothers and sisters from La Réunion who have just been hit by a cyclone. The news is pretty good, despite some damage in the South. Let's hope there's no more cyclone this season. I will only come back very briefly to the social housing crisis in the overseas countries and territories, limiting myself to two figures. In France, 66% of households are eligible for social housing, compared with 80% overseas: these 14 points give the measure of the difficulties that persist in our territories. The proposal for a law of our socialist colleagues deals with individual inheritance overseas, pointing to this legal form as a cause of tension in the housing market. The aim is to facilitate the exit of the disintegration and thus to encourage a revival of housing policy. The cause is noble, and we can only welcome and encourage this state of mind, as the housing crisis is problematic for the balance of families and living conditions in our territories. But very few figures are available, and even less indicate that indivision would be the single or main cause of the overseas housing crisis. It can be thought that the 30% of land disputes in civil matters in Guadeloupe and Martinique – 25% in Réunion – are not only the result of the indivision, so mechanically, that the indivision is far from being the only factor for freezing land. To be very precise, it can still be noted that public land ownership is much more developed overseas, ranging from 13.5% of the area in Martinique to 37.5% in Réunion and up to 95% in Guyana. Our ultramarine societies have characteristics that also affect the design of the property, sometimes recognized by the State itself. For example, in Guyana, there are "collective use rights zones" for the benefit of Amerindian communities. This tradition is opposed to the individualization of rights – including property rights to the detriment of collective property – in contrast to what we see in the hexagon. As we know, many ultramarine families also live indivision as a bulwark protecting family heritage. It is also sometimes a bulwark against land appropriation by some foreign or hexagonal financial groups who want to continue their real estate speculation. On the other hand, we are presented with indivision as a source of insurmountable conflict, while the law is there to solve the problems of indivision, but also to protect the rights of the indivisors. The solution to these conflict cases is to give more human and financial resources to justice, so that the cases do not drag on and that they are dealt with under acceptable conditions. The explanatory memorandum of the text also too tends to relieve the State of its responsibility for the lack of funding for housing construction. The French administrative burden is far from being alien to the housing crisis in the overseas regions. Thus, in La France, we do not believe that some changes to the margin can be the solution to the problems faced by our populations. Our project, "The Common Future", sets out the direction that we feel should be taken in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the New Left group]] According to an assessment dated 2015, 60,000 housing units in the overseas countries and territories would be missing. There are solutions, but the responsibility lies with local authorities and the State: we must launch an ambitious plan for the massive construction of public, social and ecological, anti-seismic and anti-cyclonic housing. We also need a plan to renovate and rehabilitate the many unworthy or precarious housing units.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u183	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u184	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 'frozen land', 'endemic scourge of indivision', 'land paralysis': the terms all go in the same direction to describe a situation common to the overseas countries and which is constantly getting worse. The main causes of the phenomenon are known: a historical context marked by colonization, a tradition marked by orality, the late creation of the cadastre, the transition from a traditional society to a modernity with new and often more stringent norms. According to AGORAH, La Réunion's urban planning agency, more than 5000 hectares are affected by estate indivisions, of which 400 are located within the city or to be urbanized, the ZU and the ZAU of the communes. And it is obvious that, far from making things right, time will worsen the difficulties as the number of heirs, and hence co-indivisors, increases. Between the situation described in 1971 by Me Jean Mas in his doctoral thesis on indivision in La Réunion and that of today, the problem has been singularly complicated. This suggests that, in the absence of appropriate measures, the mismatch between our land reality and the common law may lead to a point of rupture. The initiative of our colleague Letchimy is therefore particularly welcome. The text which he submits to us responds to a very high expectation, since it must make it possible to unblock situations of inextricable or even conflictual indivision, but also to promote a new dynamics of land. The proposed arrangement reconciles the absolute need to facilitate the exit of indivisions and fundamental respect for property rights. On the one hand, it allows heirs, if they represent at least half of the co-indivisors, to use a notary to sell or share their property amicably, i.e. to derogate from both the unanimity rule and the two-thirds majority rule for legal proceedings. On the other hand, the law should allow minority indivisors to express their opposition before a notary, the authorization of sale or division being the responsibility of the judge, who will be the responsibility of the majority of the indivisors. These proposals are ambitious. Indeed, there is a strong bet that their application will relegate to the background the derogation voted in 2014 concerning the sale of agricultural land in the overseas countries. The scheme also seeks to reconcile the possibility for the indivisaries to have access to the full management of their assets and the urgency of offering our fellow citizens living places where the conditions of health, public and economic security are met, as required by the general interest. For how can an efficient urban planning policy be pursued when decisions are still faced with the existence of urban spaces that the law helps to set aside? Although rarely highlighted, estate indivision is one of the factors behind the continuing housing crisis in the overseas regions and the blocking of operations to combat unworthy housing. From this point of view, it is necessary to bear in mind the context of intense land speculation and the need to imagine safeguards from now on so that the supply of additional land can serve the general interest. This text addresses a sensitive issue in more than one way. Nothing would be worse than providing for significant but inapplicable derogations to use. That is why the cases of this species deserve our attention. Thus, for example, the situation where it has become impossible to attribute to each co-indivisor the share to which he belongs, or where one of them has built his home on undivided land. In both cases, not only is the payment of the relief provided for in the legislation very often difficult, but it is also almost impossible to waive it, since this decision triggers the payment of transfer fees free of charge. That is why it seems wise not to wait for the evaluation of the scheme after ten years and to include in the text a legal cantonment mechanism in the acts of sharing. In the same spirit, always in order to facilitate acts of sharing, we should be guided by the Corsican solution and allow the exemption from the 2.5% duty provided for in Article 750 of the General Tax Code. Finally, how can we fail to address the recurring problem of the lack of title, which also contributes to the difficulties facing land policies? The public interest group which was voted for in 2009 has never been established and, contrary to what is happening in the West Indies, in Réunion there is no agency of the fifty geometric steps or commission of validation of the titles to which the mission of title could be entrusted. [[Applause]] Among the many objectives of the text is certainly the desire to create a calm and confident climate, the only one conducive to the most just resolution of situations of indivision. That is why we will support all the adaptations favouring the acts of sale and amicable sharing, before voting naturally for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u185	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u186	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us is in the public interest, given the particularly sensitive situation in the overseas departments and regions. You stressed that, Mr rapporteur. In these territories, unsettled estates result in mostly unmanaged indivisions, and a significant portion of the land is thus paralyzed and disinherent. It is to this reality, which is quite detrimental to their development, that the bill intends to remedy. In essence, in these indivisions, which have often lasted for several generations and sometimes concern hundreds of individuals, it is a matter of enabling the majority of them, once they have agreed, to implement a solution to the blockage, through the sale or sharing of property. The subject is sensitive from a legal point of view, because it undermines the right to property enshrined in our Constitution. It is also sensitive because it relates to deeply humane situations where family ties cross the relationship to the earth, the uprooting and the complexity of the descendants. And it deserves to be stopped, because the phenomenon affects almost 40% of the land of island territories, by nature limited, and causes many disorders for the goods in question. The Group of the European People's Party joins the text's approach – with a few reservations that I will put forward a little later – because it addresses an inescapable reality whose analysis makes consensus and whose consequences everyone understands, but also and above all because it brings a practical, operational, pragmatic solution to the problem, will say some. I would like to pay tribute here to the remarkable work of our rapporteur, as well as to the work done by the Senate under the leadership of Thani Mohamed Soilihi, Senator de Mayotte and member of the La République group on the move. As I said, estate and individual problems block an average of 40% of land in overseas areas. But this is only an average; the freeze frequently affects half of the land and can reach three-quarters of a territory. The first consequence of this phenomenon, and perhaps the main one, is the blocking of the development of these territories. How can we reconstruct the urban fabric and adapt it to the needs of time when half of the land – or even three quarters of it – is immobilized and the slightest pick-up is likely to cause litigation? There are also problems of public order, since the property left in dispossess can create security problems, but also social unrest when it comes to dislodging illegal residents, or health threats when networks are not maintained. To talk about the land, about which complex family relations are established, is also to refer to the use of justice and a form of brutality which must not fail to be taken into account in view of the three objectives of the text. We are talking first of all about humanity. These assets are often occupied by some indivisors, the agreement of the other indivisors being sometimes tacit, sometimes formal, sometimes non-existent. The occupants have neither the means to buy their share from the other protagonists, nor even to maintain the heritage. Sometimes again, when the heirs are spread over several generations and, sometimes, over thousands of kilometres, some of them are simply unknown. The only way out is often the court, that is, a family conflict that breaks with the social and cultural practices in these territories. It is therefore a matter of clarifying and pacifying family conflicts that have persisted for generations, sometimes because of bad wills, but often because the people concerned are really deprived of the situation. It is then a question of putting an end to the public disorders that I have mentioned: illegal occupations or out-of-service health networks, which cause entire neighbourhoods to negate themselves, for lack of development and maintenance, until they become, if not, areas of lawlessness, at least areas on the margins of society. Finally, it is a matter of allowing the necessary spatial planning. The overseas region does not escape the country's requirement to redefine its urban space. The small island size even reinforces the need to carry out such redefinitions. Rebuilding the city on the city, adapting it to new populations, enhancing its attractiveness and efficiency in the light of social, environmental, health and technological changes requires full capacity to intervene on land. The Government intends to bring about a housing supply shock through the Housing Development and Digital Development Bill, says ÉLAN, which we will have to discuss in the spring. I agree with this particularly relevant term in our situation: it is indeed a quantitative and qualitative shock that we must unleash on all the territories of the country. As far as the overseas countries are concerned, how can we consider correctly housing a constantly changing population, when almost half of a territory is literally frozen? The bill was unanimously passed in committee on 10 January, which I welcome. However, I had three reservations that I would like to put to you. If we fully agree with its objectives, as I pointed out in committee, the text must be operational and solid. There is a form of dialectic of audacity and security. One can perfectly elaborate a text that contains the most secure devices that are, but realize after a while that they do not move anything. Faced with a complex reality, in which, for example, three families claim the same ground, in the name of law or family history, only rely on current law is doomed to failure. The law must not only be operational, but also strong, i.e., respect the Constitution. Without being paralysed by the fear of the Constitutional Council, we believe that it is not useful to vote on legislation, when we know how to go into the wall. I do not disapprove of Article 73 and the adaptations it allows for the overseas sector. However, if we want to produce an operational law, the first of the conditions is that it survives a possible censorship of the Constitutional Council or, later, a possible priority issue of constitutionality – QPC. The rapporteur is well aware of this, which has taken the precaution of first sticking to a period of ten years, so that the situation can then be assessed in order to confirm or reorient the arrangements put in place. The measures you propose seem to be effective, but encounter the fact that they can twist the arms of minority indivisors, who are potentially priorities. It is therefore a matter of accommodating property rights. This requires a few precautions, and, as our fundamental right wants, to obey a notion of proportionality. It is a constraint to require an owner, even an indivisory owner, to dispose of property. However, whether you rejoice or complain about it, property is also the right not to do anything about a property you own. Constraints of owners therefore require that an obvious public interest can be argued. The first question relates to the identity of the person who may take the initiative of bringing the matter before the judge in the event of a challenge to the agreement reached. You propose that she return to the one who would dispute the agreement. On the other hand, we consider that it may fall to the party requesting derogation from ordinary law, in the event that this derogation is contested. We will therefore follow the Government in this regard. The second is advertising, which is not an anecdotal in this case. In fact, it is a question of how to identify unknown indivisors who would not be aware of it and who would have to deal with such a case. It is to ensure that property rights are respected to ensure that they are informed. The last reservation relates to the notion of sharing. There is a form of ambiguity in the wording of the text on the meaning of this concept, which can be interpreted as the endorsement of the sale process at the time of the liquidation of the estate. We know that it is for you to talk essentially about allotment, that is, the ability to share practically a good. This is necessary, but does not change the problem. Simplifying the sale of a good and making it necessary to dislodge the person who has occupied it for years is to move the problem and not find a serene solution to the problem. We believe that the text should be clarified. In our view, the situations in which the good must be divided must be taken into account, which means considering the constitutional aspect of the system. We want our debates and the parliamentary shuttle to make things clearer. I welcome the fact that, since our work in committee, the continuation of dialogue between the Government, the rapporteur and the law commissioners has enabled us to agree on many points. [[Applause]] After the amendments have been tabled, our group will naturally vote in favour of this text. We will not have settled everything, but we will have issued a major signal that the overseas countries, under the impetus of their elected representatives, with the support of the nation, have decided to solve this major problem for the good of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u187	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u188	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, here is a clear and concise bill. In four articles and twelve paragraphs, including the eight amendments adopted by the Committee on Laws, it is proposed to undo one of the main nodes that hinder the economic and social development of the overseas countries and territories: I am referring to the mobilization of land for the development of housing policy and the development of ultramarine territories. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of the drafters of the bill, who today enable us to highlight overseas in this chamber. It is always good for the national representation to look at our problems to improve the living conditions of our ultramarine compatriots. With regard to the substantive situation which justifies legislation, without wanting to repeat what has been developed by the previous speakers, the problem of the exit from the successional indivision is an undoubted obstacle to the development of housing, which is highly deficient overseas, and to the resorption of unhealthy housing, which is also widespread overseas, but also to the economic development of the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors, in this case agricultural, industrial and service development. With the exception of the French southern and Antarctic lands, the paralysis of the land due to the modalities of exit from the indivision affects all the overseas countries, be it France of America, the Pacific or the Indian Ocean. It is therefore necessary to legislate, at least with regard to the overseas areas covered by article 73 of the Constitution. That is why, Mr rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party supports the bill and wishes it to be adopted unanimously. In addition, a number of amendments tabled by colleagues will be discussed. They come from different political groups. The Republican Group wants them to be discussed with the same spirit of responsibility as the one who chaired our discussions in committee and in delegation to the overseas countries and territories. I think, among other things, of the amendments tabled by our colleagues Nadia Ramassamy and Nathalie Bassire. That said, while the proposed legislative amendments facilitate the resolution of certain situations, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, they do not resolve the causes of many obstacles to the revitalization of land management, nor do they resolve other issues that paralyze land-use policies. If we take the example of Mayotte, on which I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will give me credit, and if we look at the reasons for the difficulties of leaving the individual estate, we find that, in many cases, it is the registration costs and the tax costs of leaving the indivision that lead many indivisaries to refuse the partition or sale of real estate and land. I am convinced that this issue of inheritance rights is a matter for all overseas departments. In this respect, the bill deals with the consequences, not the cause, which we will have to address at a later stage. However, in order to continue on Mayotte, the main difficulty of land management, of resorption of unhealthy housing and of the development of a housing policy also arises from the shortcomings of the State. The difficulties caused by the current legislation on estate indivision are infinitely less important than those created by the illegal occupation of land. The tragedy that took place last week in the municipality of Kungou, in which a mother and four of her five children lost their lives by burial following a mud flow caused by a simple intense rain, is a sad demonstration of this. In Mayotte, tens of thousands of people live in illegal homes, built on land belonging to others, unserviced and located in dangerous areas. According to the Overseas Ministry, 30% of the housing units in Mayotte are concerned. This problem also concerns Guyana and, to a lesser extent, the entire national territory. However, the State, which has the competence to resort to law enforcement, often remains in our overseas territories still and refuses to engage in an effective policy of expulsion and security of land and persons. Many court decisions remain unimplemented in the name of I do not know what threat of disorder to public order is. Is there a greater threat of disturbances to public order than the occupation, the "squatterization" of individual properties, which are constitutionally guaranteed freedoms? In addition, a third point deserves to be addressed in order to promote the fluidification of land management: it is the permanence of the presence and capacity of ministerial officers – notaries and bailiffs – to carry out their duties in all ultramarine territories. To take the example of Mayotte again, it will be difficult to promote a land mobilization, and more broadly real estate, as long as the number of notarial offices and bailiffs is not doubled, as suggested by the excellent information report of the Senate delegation to the overseas, under the direction of Thani Mohamed Soilihi, relating to the overseas land of 2016. This question of the permanences and the capacity of notaries and bailiffs also arises in other overseas communities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, with the assistance of the Government, we will have to continue our reflection and legislative work in the preparation and consideration of other proposals for amending our legal order. I therefore submit to your sagacity the wish of the Group of the European People's Party that, at the end of the examination of the bill presented by our colleague Serge Letchimy, the National Assembly, through the delegation to the overseas countries and territories chaired by our colleague Olivier Serva, should continue its reflection and consider other amendments which would allow certain causes of the difficulties of mobilising land in the overseas countries to be dealt with in substance, in order to encourage a greater revival of housing policy and the development of our ultramarine territories. The issue of inheritance rights, the State's obligations to enforce land ownership and the capacity of ministerial officers in charge of land transactions can be addressed. [[Applause]] To conclude, at the beginning of 2018, that the President of the National Assembly has just declared the year of strengthening of the Parliament, let us demonstrate that the strengthening of the role of the Assembly does not depend on the multiplication of the texts regulating our internal functioning, but on the exercise of our institutional prerogatives conferred on us by the Constitution: the passing of the law, the authorization to lift the tax, the interpellation of the Government and the control of its action. It is on these words that I want to wish each and every one of you a good and happy year 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u189	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u190	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, like those who have already spoken, to welcome the initiative of our colleague Serge Letchimy and the New Left Group, which allows us to open the debate and to propose first avenues for solutions on a problem that is sometimes unknown and yet particularly glaring in our ultramarine territories. Clearly, this bill alone will not be able to completely change the situation and respond to all the situations identified. But it is taking a first step, which will certainly allow us to dispel several ambiguities and to resolve long-standing sensitive situations. It also provides us with an opportunity to reflect on spatial planning and the adaptation of the legislative framework for urban planning. In the island context of most of our ultramarine territories – this is also true in Guyana, for other reasons – the land available for construction is by nature restricted. Access to land is thus made particularly difficult by the problems associated with indivision. In practice, many real estates are held in individual estates by multiple heirs, immobilizing a considerable number of buildable land and de facto preventing local communities from implementing public policies to address the recurring housing crisis in our overseas areas, despite the available financing solutions. In the overwhelming majority of cases, the indivisaries blocking the division or transfer of the property are minority, causing the economic impoverishment of the owner families, who cannot enjoy their property or their fruits, but also the tax impoverishment of the communities, in particular municipalities that do not collect any tax on these property. This situation also raises other problems. First of all, in the field of health, chikungunya and dengue, which, as you know, have caused considerable damage and have led to exceptional expenditure, are being carried by a mosquito that reproduces precisely in abandoned places where waste, weeds and stagnant waters multiply. This is also the case for leptospirosis, whose wild rodents are the main reservoirs. This situation also has consequences in terms of security: houses abandoned for several years are regularly squatted, causing difficult cohabitation in cities, especially in town centres and city centres. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is therefore to adapt and facilitate the exit of the estate by derogating from the unanimity rule on consent in the overseas departments covered by Article 73 of the Constitution. The main objective is to free up land in order to respond, as previously expressed, to a particularly high housing supply deficit in our territories. The text is intended to allow the indivisor(s) with fifty plus one of the undivided rights in full ownership to dispose of the undivided property within a short period of time. In order to do so, the proposal for a law transfers to the notary the power to perform the acts of disposition of the property in respect of the essential rights of the various owners. Article 1e sets the principle at the origin of the text, since it allows, for any succession which has been open for more than five years, holders of at least half of the undivided rights to share or transfer the property concerned. In this case, the scheme will not apply in three cases: if the surviving spouse of the deceased still lives there, as is sometimes the case; if one or more of the descendants of the deceased are minors, up to the majority of the youngest of them, in order to protect their inheritance rights; and if one of the indivisors is a major incapacitant or a protected major. Finally, Article 1 specifies that its subject-matter is limited in time since it applies to plans for sale or sharing notified before 31 December 2028. The challenge is to make this temporary window a breath in the service of the liberation of land and the construction of new housing in our territories. This application over a limited period of ten years, in addition to the constitutional guarantees it provides, will therefore allow us, in a logic of experimentation, to adjust the legislative measures if experience so warrants. This limitation in time thus offers flexibility and adaptability in the face of a particularly complex historical problem. Article 2 organizes the conditions of opposition of the indivisors who do not wish to share or sell, since each project will have to be notified to all the indivisors by extra-judicial act on the part of the notary. Those wishing to do so will therefore be able to express their opposition within a time limit, which seems entirely reasonable, of three months following the notification, while at the same time the right of preemption is protected by the indivisors who wish to exercise it. Article 3 guarantees the possibility given to the minority individual who is opposed to an act of division or assignment to refer the matter to the court of main instance. This referral must be made within the three-month period provided for in Article 2. Article 4 guarantees the distribution of shares by each indivisor, whether expressly or tacitly consented to the sale or the sharing. This sharing takes place on the basis of the provisions of the Civil Code. [[Applause]] The MODEM and related groups consider that this draft law contains provisions for the release of land while providing genuine legal guarantees for the indivisaries concerned. For all these reasons, it supports this initiative. We will therefore vote in favour of the bill, which we hope will be fully implemented in the Overseas Territories as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u191	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u192	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the year, allow me to express my best wishes to you and to think in solidarity with our overseas territories affected by climate events. Land tenure and indivision are central issues for the majority of French overseas territorial authorities. I should like in the preamble to welcome the initiative of our colleague Serge Letchimy, who, with this bill, allows us to address this complex issue, to discuss it together tonight and to make some progress so that our people can benefit from land that is often inaccessible. This is a common obstacle to our territories. If the causes are not always the same, the impacts are often the same. The first impact, everyone will have seen, is social: families cannot stay, while everyone aspires – it is universal – to a job, to a dwelling, to a roof for his family and to be able to make life plans. It is very paradoxical that these populations, who have often been owners for millennia, as in Polynesia, do not have access to their land, whereas they sometimes have a visceral connection to this land space, even to the sea. I want to share with you this anecdote: the vast majority of Polynesians, still today, bury the placenta of the newborn and plant a tree to remind it of its connection to the earth, its history with this land. Often, the name given has a connection to the property of this space, which is not only terrestrial: it often extends from mountainous peaks to the reef barrier. That is what we live in these territories, which are also French. I therefore hope that you will have a thought for our fellow citizens on the other side of the planet. I am delighted, Madam Minister, and thank you in advance for coming to our territory next week. This will allow you to touch the reality, that of the diversity of territories, their cultures, our stories. You will see how, on a daily basis, the land problem is a huge obstacle to the development and social development of our families. It also hinders economic development. Most of the lands in Polynesia have been reclassified as "presumed state property" – it is a specialty of ours. These are land in dispossess, the owners of which are not known; They are not classified as State, they are not public, but simply "presumed State officials", the country being in some way the guardian of these lands pending claims. Many estates in Polynesia have been open for decades, as you recalled in your speech. Our families sometimes wait for generations before they can finally benefit from this space. I appreciated the expression "liberating land" that my colleague has just used: by releasing land, life projects are freed. It is to all these people that I think when I approach this text. I would also like to address another issue, which I found to be a glaring one this morning, Minister. We have launched an information mission within the National Assembly on the management of major climate events in the coastal areas of the Hexagon and overseas. This morning we heard from a representative of the National Observatory for the Sea and the Coast, who shared demographic data with us. It was interesting to note that, overall, at the national level, the population pressure is much greater in the coastal and, in addition, increasing. The pressure is in the order of two and a half times that encountered in other areas. Thus, in Guadeloupe and Martinique, 100,000 people live between 0 and 500 metres from the coast: they are therefore extremely vulnerable to climate events. Why do they live in this area? Because they do not have access to land and are often in the area of 50 geometric steps. These spaces, over time, have often been exploited, in these and other territories. We find this problem in Polynesia, as well as that of the artificialization of these spaces: we make embankments because we do not have access to the land. The State has every interest in dealing with this matter; We invite him to extend this debate, why not via the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, in order to continue these improvements and to remove this obstacle. While, in the hexagon, the principle is amicable sharing, in our territories, the principle is litigation. We are in 2018: it is time to put an end to this vicious circle that systematically leads our families to confront each other in litigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u194	However, the principle in litigation, even if the problem is solved, is that there is always a loser and a winner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u195	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u196	We live in Polynesia, where 80% of the files are handled in litigation: imagine the damage that this causes, even when it is removed from the division! The Polynesian government is working on everything that can be done upstream, in mediation and conciliation, as it is obviously more beneficial for families to agree to get out of the divide. Unfortunately, it is often necessary to go so far as litigation. This subject is extremely sensitive and persuasive for all our territories. The causes are different, the impacts are often the same, as I indicated. But the solutions, I tell you quite frankly, are different. What you are proposing is adapted to your territory: you have thought about it, you think it is the right solution and we trust you. But in other territories, such as Wallis-et-Futuna – I was talking about it with our colleague Napoleon Polutele – there is a rule of division. The indivision allows the joint management of the property: this is one of the solutions envisaged in this territory, and in part also in Polynesia. For our part, the essential thing is that our civil code allows effective and secure indivision exits. That is why I wanted to take advantage of the consideration of this bill to address this issue. I know that's not obvious. I would like once again to thank our rapporteur, the majority, the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the Overseas Ministry for accompanying us and for making two of the five proposals that have been made in committee. They will allow us to take the first steps to adapt the Civil Code for Polynesia, in very specific cases which I will explain to you when presenting these amendments. The two major subjects are preferential attribution and the omission of the heir. When several years or even decades are needed to make large divisions between hundreds of co-indivisors – sometimes up to 500 indivisors – it may happen to omit one: can the right of this omitted heir sometimes call into question twenty years of proceedings? The case law protected these shares in Polynesia, but in cassation they were often questioned. Our objective is to secure these shares while preserving the rights of the omitted heir who will be able to receive his share, in value or in kind, but without cancelling the initial division that will have been validated by all the parties. This is a major issue for all our territories, ladies and gentlemen. We will support this text and future initiatives, because there are other issues to be addressed, such as stock sharing that we will be talking about next week, Minister. This issue was discussed at the sittings and we wanted to put it on the balance sheet. It is at the heart of our concerns and has been the subject of numerous reports, both in the Senate and here, when Mr.Urvoas chaired the Law Commission. Ms. Taubira, when she was a minister, had also delegated a mission. [[Applause]] Everything contributes to the affirmation of a right adapted to our territories and that does not in any way call into question the Constitution, on the contrary. Above all, it will enable us to be effective, to do justice, and it will allow our families to live like everyone else on their land.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u197	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u198	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to have a thought for the Reunions who are going through a difficult period and whose lives we hope will not be dramatic – I mean without loss of life. Land tenure within our territories is as complex as it is fundamental and diverse, as Mr Maina Sage has just illustrated. First of all, the report that the Senate devoted to the issue in June 2016, which I greet after previous speakers, and which was coordinated by Senator Mohamed Soilihi, has no fewer than three volumes! That is the complexity of the subject. The law on programming for real equality overseas includes real progress on land, particularly for Mayotte, but in the face of such a level of complexity and diversity, it is necessary to consider other measures and to include this work in a complementary approach. Fundamental, then. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, land policy is of the utmost importance for the overseas countries, because we live in small areas surrounded by water and dense forests. These spaces are even smaller because of the rugged terrain of many territories. The urgency is therefore present both in terms of space and time. Some territories still have a dynamic demography that calls for the construction of adequate housing. This is why land and land have a very strong societal value within our territories. We must therefore work to facilitate the liberation of the land. This means solving the problems of disintegration that encystify our societies. This will enable us to carry out genuine land-use planning. In the overseas and elsewhere, we need housing, hospitals, police stations, sports facilities, shops, areas to develop our economic fabric. Land is therefore not only a strong societal issue but also a strategic and even vital issue for our territories. It is intrinsically linked to the development of our regions. That is why it is our responsibility, here and now, to vote for more appropriate rules to defrost situations that have been blocked for too long. The bill that the New Left Group is proposing to vote today brings innovative and ambitious solutions to the issue of indivision. I would like to welcome the involvement of our rapporteur, Serge Letchimy, who is very committed to serving Martinique and overseas. The bill he is presenting on behalf of our group is an appropriate response for the ultramarine territories. Under section 73 of the Constitution, our legal norms, laws and regulations, can take into account "the particular characteristics and constraints of communities." The adaptation of our legal rules is necessary and legitimate. Who can understand, for example, that the technical standards in architectural matters are exactly the same as those prevailing in the hexagon, regardless of the tropical climate under which we live? Uniformization is an aberration! Adaptation seems to us to be a significant way to improve the relevance of the law: it is a tool of creative intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u200	The year that begins will be the year of the constitutional debate, Minister, and this debate is fundamental. We believe that there is reason to go further than the current law, in particular by deleting article 73, paragraph 5, which deprives the Meeting of its right of adaptation. This legal lock hinders our development and tarnishes our collective pride – it will be the subject of another debate. The proposal we are looking at today will help boost the construction of social housing in the overseas regions. It will also resolve disputes that leave families in appallingly painful situations. It will finally make it possible to prevent the loss, as a result of these inheritance conflicts, of our architectural heritage, which ranges from the great colonial building to the local squares bearing an architectural signature and having an affective value for our territories. [[Applause]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are asking you to vote for today. This text is a new stone for the construction of our ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u201	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u202	[[Smile]] I must confess, Mr President, that I was a little afraid of being punished because my speech will last a little more than five minutes, but I am reassured that you are presiding over this meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u203	When we've gone thousands of miles, we can get a little bit out of here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u204	I know your leniency and I hope that these additional thirty seconds will have a multiplier effect. The problem of indivision arises in our island territories, especially in Martinique, with extreme acuity. This is a crucial issue. As a result of individualization, land and building blockage penalizes any policy aimed at resorption of unworthy housing, improvement or revitalization of neighbourhoods and town centres, spatial planning, and even public safety and environmental protection. Ironically, many individuals often find themselves tenants, hosted, sometimes even homeless! This situation, which is also observed in many metropolitan areas, is, overseas, the specific result of a painful and glaring history. It is the history of the capture of land by a minority, a history of injustices and spoliations, born of colonization and slavery. You have to be aware of that. This situation is aggravated by our geography. Our micro-island territories are by definition non-extensible: more than any other land is forced to do so. It must therefore be optimised and protected. Together with my colleagues in the GDR Group, with all the parliamentarians from overseas, with the rapporteur, we are now taking a partnership and solidarity approach, as I recalled on the occasion of the Prime Minister's recent visit to Martinique. This shows, first, that common sense is not the exclusivity of any political party, and second, that indivision must not divide us! In concrete terms, what is the situation? Today, if they want to get out of estate individuals by sharing or selling amicably, the indivisors must all agree. That is the rule of unanimity. However, derogations from the unanimity rule already exist within the Civil Code, but subject to the authorization of the judge. In the event of a risk to the common interest, for example – Article 815-5 – an individual may act alone, or in the event of a possibility of sale by a two-thirds majority but on listing, i.e. auction – Article 815-5-1. But such provisions softening the requirement of unanimity in order to break out of the division remain insufficient, inadequate and insufficiently implemented. It is difficult, in fact, to go to court against his own family to see, in the end, the family house sold at auction. The option of a simple rewriting of section 815-5-1 was not retained. Hence the importance, if a specific law is adopted, of adapting it so that it best fits our realities. It's a sine qua non. While I share the philosophy of this bill – a reduction of the majority to more than 50%, a lack of need for referral to the judge – I do not ignore the risk of unconstitutionality and, above all, the risk of practical inapplicability. Moreover, the financial dimension, which is just as much as the rule of unanimity, a factor of blocking, through the payment of soul, registration fees, etc., has not been taken into account here at all, on the contrary of Mayotte and Corsica. Why? The risk, as it stands, is to try to make theoretical or rhetorical prose, in plain terms, an operation of 'com', without in practice our territories reap the much-hoped fruits of this bill. Finally, since it is an experimental law for a period of ten years, an evaluation tool to assess it and to change the text seems indispensable. That is why we are proposing an observatory, based on the model of the public interest group for the reconstruction of securities, on which I had already asked the Government in 2014. We therefore have a series of amendments aimed, on the one hand, at securing the implementation of this text and, on the other hand, at ensuring its effectiveness. Reducing the risk by increasing the effectiveness of the law: what better to ask for? In order to secure the implementation of the law, it is first and foremost important to bring the law into line with other provisions of the Civil Code. I am thinking in particular of the question of time limits – five years or ten years – especially for the estate option and for state ownership. I am also thinking of the harmonisation of the rules of the majority, particularly for simple administrative acts. We must also be concerned about ensuring better respect for the rights of other indivisaries. While the presence of many geographically distant indivisaries has been pointed out in the explanatory memorandum as one of the causes of blockage, their consideration deserves to be more explicitly declined beyond notification or publication. This respect for the indivisors also requires the use of real estate experts, the only ones who can determine the value of the property, a sensitive issue that can be at the root of controversy. The silence of the law must also be overcome. While the text seems clear with regard to sharing, it is incomplete with regard to sales: nothing has been clarified as to the criterion of price distribution and the consequences of the opposition of the indivisors. Moreover, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the law and to hope for an effective exit from the indivision, its scope needs to be better understood. In its current wording, the text could be difficult to apply by professionals in the event that an individual has more than 50 per cent of the undivided rights alone, or in the case of a protected major would be included among the indivisors. The risk of blockage should also be avoided in the event of opposition. In the event of opposition to the sale, in application of the proposed text, the process is completely destroyed. Since the majority was reduced to 50%, the risk of opposition was all the greater and the text would then be emptied of any substance. Financial provisions must also be introduced: this is essential. This is where the other real node of the problem of indivision lies. Both Corsica and Mayotte benefit from a number of tax measures from which one can draw. Some of our amendments are in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u206	In conclusion, you will understand that we are positively involved in this text, that we will participate in its development to the extent of the issues and needs. In order to promote an effective exit from indivision, our proposals aim to give it substance, consistency, relevance and coherence. So let's work this text together, basically, and let's vote on it this evening! I stress in particular one point: the option of sharing must remain a priority in order to avoid any speculative aim. After the genocide by substitution denounced in its time by Aimé Césaire, the contemporary genocide by poisoning linked to chlordecone, we cannot resolve ourselves tomorrow to a genocide by dispossession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u207	[[Smile]] One more minute per kilometre travelled, I think you can close!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u208	In the absence of an improvement in the text, we will not achieve the expected results. [[Applause]] I'm really finishing, Mr. President. The practice of writing the law cannot be restricted to thinking the words – in the Creole sense, to speaking beautiful words. Rather, it aims to heal ailments, in the sense of treating an evil, remedying it. More than 400 years before Jesus Christ, Euripide already said that "there is no greater pain in the world than the loss of his native land"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u209	He did well to go to the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u210	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u211	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is not too late to wish you a good and happy year, full of health and fruitful work. I too have a thought for our colleagues and compatriots in Réunion, who are now affected by a cyclone. The bill we are considering addresses key economic and social issues for the Overseas Territories. Its purpose is to adapt the regime of successions to their characteristics in order to facilitate the exit by the heirs of the indivisions. This means that the majority indivisors holding fifty plus one per cent of the undivided rights will be able to present to the notary a plan to share or sell the property and thus facilitate the removal of the undivided rights. Our approach is in line with the work undertaken by the Senate delegation overseas and the proposals made under the coordination of Senator Tani Mohamed Soilihi. It responds to a context of land paralysis aggravated by the multiplication of property held in individual estates by often numerous and geographically remote heirs, a phenomenon that paradoxically transforms individualness into an inexhaustible source of division between members of the same family. Not only should the text have the effect of freeing land for the time being paralyzed by an inadequate right to our territories, it also constitutes a real progress through which children and grandchildren from overseas should be able to build life prospects on the land of their ancestors. They will be able to assert their property rights as collateral for borrowing, enabling them to build or renovate their property and pass it on to future generations. More than just economic and social issues, we are talking about very long-term societal issues. It was Jean-Jacques Rousseau who said that "The first one who, having a plot of land, decided to say, this is mine [...], was the true founder of civil society. In territories where, for more than two centuries, article 28 of the Black Code deprived slaves of any right to property, one can therefore consider that the first colored man to have been able to buy his land, enclosing land and saying "this is mine" was the true founder of post-slavery societies as they are today. It is he, this freed man, who, by embarking on the conquest of the wreaths of our steep territories at the end of the 19th century, initiated a progressive movement of rooting, appropriation of the soil and identification. In these often island territories and therefore surrounded by water, it was the land that allowed this common elder to feed his family. The attachment to this good has been passed on from generation to generation, echoed by the Speaker of the Senate Gaston Monnerville, who proclaimed that nothing would ever make him a disobedient. The common history of all the overseas countries and territories with France has shaped in singular conditions the relationship to the land in each of our territories. Thus, the phenomenon of indivision overlaps with the existence of very dominant customary rights in certain territories such as Mayotte, Wallis-et-Futuna, French Polynesia or New Caledonia. That is why none of its essential provisions can be removed from the current wording of the bill. Indeed, during our preparatory work, concerns could be expressed here and there. In particular, the constitutionality of the division of property rights protected by articles 2 and 17 of the 1789 Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights was at issue. However, thanks to the work done in good intelligence with the Chancery and the Overseas Ministry, the uncertainties have been gradually cleared up, until they are no longer there. Today, the drafting of the text is fair and proportionate to the objectives pursued. I have no doubt that we will all agree that facilitating sharing is to ensure that property rights are lived in all their dimensions, that it is to enable its owners to realize them fully. As a result, national representation must move forward calmly on this issue. The general interest is our sole objective. To facilitate succession by adapting the conditions for the exercise of sharing among members of the same family is to respect the blood and sweat shed on their land by our forefathers. By facilitating heritage transmission, basic economic objectives are pursued. In this way, we simplify the process of assigning and obtaining title to property from all heirs. As for the facilitation of sales, it is subject to an economic and social requirement aimed at freeing up land with the aim, for example, of building social and intermediate housing for our poorest citizens. I will not be able to prejudge the content of our debates. However, I am sure that this mechanism will be further enriched after our general discussion by the Government's amendments and by others, defended on all the benches of this noble assembly in the same spirit of assembly and co-construction, the very one who presided over all the discussions on ultramarine issues since the beginning of this legislature, which we can only rejoice collectively. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, in my personal capacity, I fully agree with the approach taken by our colleague Serge Letchimy, whom I salute. I have made a strong commitment to him to tell the chancery as well as the overseas ministry all the interest of this new arrangement. Moreover, the delegation to the overseas countries that I have the honour to chair took a motion unanimously to say that all overseas countries support the adoption of this bill: this text will serve all the overseas countries and territories! I therefore solemnly invite the La République group to support this bill energetically, and I welcome the investment of our colleague Guillaume Vuilletet, who, as head of the text for the group, has been able to put his pragmatism and intelligence at the service of the fundamental issues of the overseas countries. [[Applause]] I am pleased that the Government is in favour of the adoption of this bill from the opposition, if necessary proof, of the union of the entire nation for the overseas on this issue of indivision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u212	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u213	I will not be very long, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since we will resume our work this evening. I solemnly thank all the speakers for their support but also for their enlightenment. We must, in fact, work in partnership on this major issue of public utility. It is because it is a matter of public utility that we have been able to find solutions to avoid unconstitutionality. I regret the absence of our colleague Ratenon. I did not just want to reassure him, but to confirm to him what I have already said in the rostrum: this text is not intended to free land for speculation. I thought he had a better understanding of what I meant! I recall some health consequences of the non-exit of the indivision, which accounts for 40% or 83% in some communes – the percentage is lower in Réunion but, with 27% or 28%, it remains relatively large. In the West Indies, between 2013 and 2014, forty people died of chikungunya or dengue and 1,000 people were affected. I am not saying that such a situation is exclusively related to the question of indivision, but it is a very important contribution. When I took the minister to the Hermitage district, she was able to see in one street about ten houses in abandoned indivision. In Reunion in 2006, 243 people lost their lives as a result of these diseases and nearly 100,000 people were affected by chikungunya. I stress the scope of this text, which Jean-Philippe Nilor recalled: it is not just about the delivery of housing, although it is obviously important to promote construction, the re-appropriation of cities, the renewal of the protection of traditional houses – it is very important – and the facilitation of economic development by avoiding particular conflicts. Secondly, I understand the wish of Mr Nilor to make this text effective. Let him be reassured, there is no will on our part to 'com'. We want to work seriously. He has also participated with me in several local meetings in Martinique, recently again, in order to find the best possible solution. When drafting legislation, it is always very difficult to prejudge total effectiveness. It would be very pretentious of me to pretend that this is the case, and I do not even assume it. Margin of progress exists and that is why a text is intended to be constantly adapted. Tomorrow morning, an amendment may very well improve the system. [[Applause]] I conclude by thanking the Chair of the Law Committee for her openness and for allowing us to study this text within acceptable deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u214	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-18-O1116.u215	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the bill to facilitate the exit of the estate indivision and to revive housing policy overseas. The meeting is adjourned.
