ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u1	The President of the La République en marche informed the President of the Assembly that Mr Mustapha Laabid and Mrs Marie Lebec were appointed Secretaries of the Assembly as of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u2	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the motion for a resolution on the democratic importance of the use of the referendum route for the ratification of the free trade treaty between the European Union and Canada (No 497).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u3	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u4	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, since the 1990s, bilateral free trade agreements have increased worldwide. It is in this vein that the CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union is in place. Two huge economies, those of the European Union and Canada, are integrated by the agreement that almost fully came into force last September. Japan would soon follow, and some 20 agreements are now under negotiation. It is therefore a background blade which, in our view, must be stopped even before it can begin. I will try to explain to you the essential reasons which, I believe, can convince those who pay attention to the rational content of the arguments put forward in this House. Let me just pause for a moment on the general logic used by the supporters of this Treaty and on the general philosophy of free trade. It is not just a question of philosophy, as has been said, but a reality stemming from political choices. From our point of view, this philosophy of free trade has made its time. Yesterday it could have its contemptors as its defenders, and the debate between them revolved around the effect of free trade on the distribution of wealth and peace among nations. The thesis advocated by those who, despite an absolutely new situation, persist in the defence of free trade is as follows: free trade increases the overall volume of trade and would promote a general increase in the standard of living and peaceful relations between the peoples of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u5	Damn!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u6	The double argument implicit in this thesis is in itself highly questionable. It is above all the inequalities that have grown in the last thirty years from a global point of view. They are mostly societies dislodged as a result of this fierce competition, which are torn apart in violent conflicts, which we observe around the world. But if one wanted to assume that the thesis of the advocates of free trade was right in this historic debate, it is certainly no longer so today and collapses under the weight of a massive phenomenon that forces us to rethink thought as political action. I'm talking about climate change. Indeed, climate change needs to redefine, and beyond the deep disagreements we have about the redistribution of wealth, our relationship to free trade. The most recent climate change studies indicate that the continuation of the current greenhouse gas emission trajectories would lead to a warming of four degrees Celsius, which is far too high for us to adapt to it without immense risks. It is the survival of humanity that is engaged. The contribution of international transport to global greenhouse gas emissions continues to increase, and if this flight ahead of free trade continues, this situation will worsen. To wager on the growth of international trade, on the increase in the volume of goods exchanged, ships and aircraft that circulate to transport them, is to wager on our disappearance. It is in this absurd framework that CETA is part of, and I invite all Members – some of whom I know outside our group who are equally sensitive to this crucial issue for our century – to think seriously about it. Free trade is harmful to our environment and to our living conditions. Producing anywhere, any way, and transporting everything between so many countries is not only environmentally dangerous, but also socially disastrous. Moreover, I know that many of you are like us, Members of the House of Commons of France, attached to our agriculture. We want to preserve a viable agricultural model at a time when it must turn massively to organic production patterns. But the government's study on CETA and many citizen reports have shown that one of the massive effects of this treaty will be the ever-increasing concentration of agricultural land, and the further industrialization of production processes. In particular, think of cattle breeders, who will find themselves in fierce competition with gigantic Canadian farms, with inhumane proportions that are unacceptable to animal welfare. In voting for our resolution calling for a referendum on CETA, I therefore ask you to think fraternally about our farmers, who today suffer and will suffer more from the consequences of this treaty if it comes to be adopted without any other form of trial. But this free trade treaty also puts the precautionary principle in jeopardy. That Canada is one of the world's top five producers of genetically modified organisms – GMOs – is not a fact that can be ruled out in turn. Who indeed wants to find transgenic salmon on his plate or that of his children?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u7	There won't be any!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u8	Absolute trade liberalization with Canada is dangerous. It is all the more so as our customs service has been dismantled in recent years. Control of products entering our territory should, however, be possible, if only for basic reasons of public health. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Accept, ladies and gentlemen, that a subject of such importance can be offered to public deliberation through a referendum. We are firmly opposed to this treaty, as you will understand, but the question we are asking you today is not whether you are in favour or opposed to it. We ask you to agree to put this subject at the heart of the public debate and to appeal to the people to adopt or reject this treaty, which commits its destiny and the collective future of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u9	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of France Insoumise is proposing today to adopt a resolution on the use of the referendum for the ratification of CETA. It proposes a debate on the democratic stakes of our trade policy. The French people elected Emmanuel Macron to reform France and drive change in Europe. The President of the Republic is committed to a more democratic and legitimate trade policy, in particular for the development of CETA. The French people also gave their confidence to national representation to accompany and control the action of the executive. This is what our parliamentary majority is doing by closely monitoring the negotiation and implementation of so-called mixed trade agreements. We will only respond to our fellow citizens' concerns about CETA by being closely involved, and as soon as possible, in its implementation. In this context, we are working towards the establishment of increased consultation and information mechanisms for parliamentarians in order to establish a continuous, transparent and demanding dialogue on the definition of European trade policy. And we obviously didn't wait for that day to do it! Upon the provisional entry into force of the text, a CETA working group was naturally set up to engage in close dialogue with the Government. As early as this autumn, we forwarded our recommendations to the Ministry on the basis of the recommendations of the Schubert report and actively contributed to the development of the government action plan. So, what do we ask in practice? We call for an increase in the monitoring of import volumes of sensitive products such as beef products. In this context, the Government has already sought the support of the European Commission for the improvement of controls, including random controls, at borders. We also want the impact on our industries to be accurately measured, which is why we have asked for an impact assessment on the regions most exposed to the import of Canadian beef and pork. It should be recalled that the Treaty limits the volume of beef imports from Canada, which now accounts for only 0.8% of beef production in Europe. We also call for economic measures to maintain a high level of demand in the event of the possible destabilization of the markets. Finally, we are working to strengthen, through labelling, the traceability of product composition, with the aim of improving consumer information. It would be premature to take a position on the progress made by our approach, especially since the Government's action plan provides for an impact assessment of the ratification bill. The Commission will have to provide a more precise view of the extent of the possible risks associated with the implementation of the Agreement. But it is important to understand our approach. We parliamentarians today have the opportunity to define ourselves as indispensable actors in the implementation of the agreement. The criticisms and questions raised about CETA allow us to define a new working method, based on consultation and the definition of more ambitious standards in the long term. In fact, we already have some successes! The fact that France was thus able to have the Paris agreement explicitly taken into account in the trade agreement with Japan, which was finalised last December, is a victory. But this fight cannot be waged alone. We'll win it at twenty-seven. In a context of distrust and the return of protectionism, our citizens have brought to power a majority who believe in "the Europe that protects". President Macron reminded Davos of the limits of today's globalization, which we need to regulate to make it an opportunity for our economy. I support our President in this opening fight. The "new generation" agreement of CETA can offer us a higher level of legal certainty than previous trade agreements, provided that it is accompanied by a demanding democratic control. We will therefore not issue a blank cheque to our trading partners, who will always have to comply with European standards in order to gain access to the European market. But I believe that strengthening relations with our Canadian friends should be seen as an opportunity, when we know that France has a trade deficit of EUR 60 billion and that more than 2 million jobs depend on exports to non-European states. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u11	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, CETA is a so-called "new generation" trade agreement. Yet it has been under negotiation for almost ten years: obviously, the new generation takes the time to come to the world! However, let us not be in too much hurry, as it is true that the uncertainties seem to be more numerous than the happy promises. The previous government, which completed the negotiations, had obtained the publication, at European level, of the negotiating mandate. He had also highlighted the shadows of the Treaty, in particular the consequences of the implementation of the Agreement on the environmental and health standards of France and the European Union and the modalities for resolving potential disputes between investors and States, which have been the subject of numerous criticism. In this regard, if the principle of a permanent court – preferred to the original arbitral tribunal – goes in the right direction, we regret that judges do not belong to an independent judiciary and are not appointed by an independent legal institution. As for the consequences of CETA for the agricultural sector, the European States will find it very difficult to assert the precautionary principle in future disputes, since it is not explicitly mentioned in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u13	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u14	While it contains safeguard clauses allowing measures to be taken to preserve a particular sector of activity, their implementation is difficult. The commission of experts mandated by the President of the Republic to analyse the consequences of CETA relays this concern. The report it has published indicates that agricultural trade liberalization is at least the Canadian first in terms of health and environmental standards, which weakens European agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u16	In particular, experts point to Canada's "lower requirements" for pesticides, GMOs and growth activators, although Canadian products are expected to comply with EU regulations on pesticides, GMOs and growth activators.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u17	You mustn't play to scare yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u18	Finally, while France has regained a leading position on the international climate scene, it must be noted that CETA ignores the stakes of this global challenge. Thus, the Schubert Committee points out the risk that a regulatory measure to combat climate change will be considered an obstacle to trade and that the arbitration mechanism will not generate claims for compensation. In late October, the Government presented an action plan to guide and monitor the implementation of the trade agreement with Canada. This plan follows on from the 2016 report on France's foreign trade strategy and European policy presented by Matthias Fekl, which advocated "a strengthening of the transversal follow-up of the negotiations [...] and of the ex post evaluation of the existing agreements", particularly in environmental matters. Admittedly, several proposals are in the right direction; However, they lack ambition. Indeed, CETA – as it will be put to the vote of our assembly in the coming months – could have significant consequences for our lifestyles. We are faced with a treaty whose economic interest is not proven and whose environmental, health and institutional aspects are worrying, a treaty which carries with it certain risks for the balance of our agricultural economy, particularly in the beef and veal sector. In the absence of a new round of discussions, the Government will therefore have to take strong steps to limit the consequences of the implementation of CETA and anticipate future trade negotiations. In any event, whatever the stakes, the referendum does not seem to us to be the appropriate way out of what is widely debated between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u19	For us, that's the solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u20	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] The process of adopting the agreement is contested; It's certainly questionable. However, the referendum route is not, for the time being, a tool for deciding on trade treaties. Europe is challenged, sometimes even to its foundations, all the more so as globalisation makes all the springs of fear play. It is clear that a referendum will provide an additional opportunity to beat him, as well as our exporting companies, and will undermine the very principle of trade agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u21	Voters are smart!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u22	They have a brain!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u23	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] For all these reasons, we will abstain from this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u24	There you go! That's the PS!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u25	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union is a significant development in the international economic landscape. As such, it gives rise to hope and fear. Certainly, economic theory – from the mercantilists, Adam Smith's theory of absolute advantages, the relative advantages of Ricardians and the Heckscher-Ohlin-Samuelson model to contemporary debates – has evolved in a way that is conducive to openness. For the most part, it focuses on the positive effects of openness, including economies of scale and increased productivity, which are themselves conducive to growth and employment. In this case, the estimates of the effects of CETA differ greatly according to the econometric models adopted, ranging from very low growth to net job destruction. The advocates of the agreement want to be reassuring. With regard to growth, they say that it will increase trade between the European Union and Canada by 20%, particularly for French companies in the agriculture, agri-food, pharmacy, luxury and even textiles and clothing sectors. As regards agriculture and livestock, they point out that imports are quotaed at 65000 tonnes per year, or just 0.6% of European consumption. In terms of health standards, they do not detect any problems, as European standards remain applicable to Canadian products, including those governing growth hormones and GMOs. With regard to the environment, they recalled Canada's support for the objectives of COP21. They also refute the argument that CETA could be the Trojan horse of American multinationals, because an American product transiting Canadian territory remains American and is therefore taxed as such. They likewise refute the concerns raised by the arbitral tribunal or the provisions relating to public services. Naturally, these statements must be taken with caution. Indeed, if we look at the agreement from a less consensual perspective, it must be noted that several fragile sectors are being shaken. We will thus mention the legitimate fears of destabilization expressed by the beef industry in the face of the foreseeable growth of free imports. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If only one aspect of the problem were to be mentioned, it would be observed that only twenty-eight of the fifty French dairy designations are protected. Cheeses of such prestigious designations as Ossau-Iraty, the gruyère, Saint-Marcellin or the tomme des Pyrénées can therefore be freely imitated. Of course, we want an open Corsica, but a Canadian version of Brocciu does not seem useful or desirable to us! It should also be noted that the Parliament of the French-speaking community of Belgium has had a voice on this subject. He was competent in the matter and spoke. This excellent example provides an opportunity to recall that restoring meaning to the European project and enabling it to regain the consent of the people means making it more democratic and closer to the base. Finally, we cannot avoid thinking about the modalities of international openness. This subject is essential. Competition between industrial groups, between regions and between countries has become frontal, as the protective barriers give way one after the other. In addition to the WTO decisions adopted for half a century, regional agreements, free customs zones and CETA, the conditions and consequences of opening must be examined. It puts in direct contact areas with very unequal social development and inevitably leads to social de-escalation. We are building a world in which the slaves of the South are too often exploited to create the unemployed and the precarious of the North!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u28	We therefore call for a mastery of trade flows, a systematic policy of promoting development in the South and a progressive but real harmonization of fiscal policies and social standards. Today we are being proposed to put the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union to a referendum. Why not? What is important, in our view, is the amplification at all levels of the debate on the timeliness and modalities of international openness. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The prospect of the trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur is already emerging. Others will follow, including the Free Trade Agreement between Japan and the European Union – JEFTA. Creating an ever more global world in which more people, goods and capital circulate is preferable to retreating and confrontation. However, it cannot be reduced to ever more difficult competition, ultimately leading to the deindustrialisation of Europe and the inevitable dismantling of social gains.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u29	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party sets out the terms of a necessary debate to comment on the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union itself and on the modalities for its ratification. First of all, I would like to refer to the text referred to in the motion for a resolution. It is not useful to recall that CETA is an agreement initiated by France and Canada a little less than ten years ago, the negotiation phase of which expired in 2014. A joint study by the European Commission and the Canadian government, published in October 2008, focuses on the high economic benefits that could result from such a bilateral agreement. Beyond these intentions, our responsibility as parliamentarians is to deepen our reflection on a text with so many issues at stake. The reservations about CETA are perfectly understandable. In the light of an economic, environmental and social analysis, CETA certainly elicits comments. Many parliamentarians, sitting on all the benches of our Assembly, do not hesitate to take a critical look at this treaty. Moreover, a parliamentary report noted the "uncertainties" of CETA on health and environmental issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u31	That's an essential point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u32	In particular, Members questioned the meat imports that would result from this agreement, Canadian health standards – more flexible than European standards – and the use of antibiotics or growth accelerators. They also expressed their concerns about the intensification of competition to which French farmers, who are already in difficulty, would be subjected. Many NGOs and French farmers consider that the guarantees for the protection of local agriculture are insufficient. The fear of challenging the agricultural and agro-ecological model in contact with the Canadian model remains strong among European producers, especially as Canada ignores the precautionary principle. There have therefore been blocking points and many Members, of whom I am a member, have stressed the urgent need to ensure that the Treaty complies with the Paris agreements. Since then, proposals have been made. The Government has published an action plan to regulate the entry into force of CETA in order to ensure its success by avoiding any inconsistency. It seems to me that we can reconcile economic interests with environmental interests. This action plan makes it possible to move forward more calmly. He called on the State, as the Schubert Committee's report called for, to make 25 proposals which I will refrain from detailing, because you know them, ladies and gentlemen. It expresses the Government's willingness to ensure exemplary implementation of the treaty and to accelerate its action against climate change. Its implementation will ensure the proper application of health and environmental standards and better integrate sustainable development issues into trade policy, in accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement, to which we all attach. Europe must play its part. Opening up to Canada can be a new step. However, the motion for a resolution deals with the modalities for ratification. On this point too, I would like to contribute to the debate. Everyone has their own idea of the referendum. Some feel that voters never answer the question, others believe that it is the only legitimate democratic tool. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] If I were to quote a political leader on this subject, I would remember Michel Rocard who once united Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Manuel Valls and Benoit Hamon. According to him, "a referendum is a national excitement where we put everything in the pot. We ask a question, people ask each other and come to vote based on reasons that have nothing more to do with the question." We cannot doubt the convictions of parliamentarians and their ability to make choices. We were all elected on programs. While that of our colleagues in the Group of the United Kingdom proposed to postpone all the free trade treaties, that of the members of the La République group on the move was particularly concerned that the CETA not only did not call into question the Paris agreement on the climate, but was compatible with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u33	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u34	The ratification of CETA by the French Parliament calls on each Member to take responsibility. Without presuming the result of a vote, we must play our part without hiding behind a referendum, as was all too often the case when politicians were having difficulty taking decisions. The approach taken by Members of the Group of the European People's Party is honourable, but we must be up to date. National representation should not seek to clear customs. The National Assembly must also be able to change the positions of the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The La République en marche group does not want to run away from its responsibilities. That is why we will not vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u35	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u36	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about a country where I lived for eight years, before joining the benches of this august assembly last June. A country that elected a leader who was barely forty years old, while all the polls gave him a loser, a leader who, from the moment of his election, appointed a joint government, a leader who, barely elected, had fully acceded to the Paris Agreement, when his predecessor was going backwards. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] A country where medical insurance is free and universal. [[Same movements]] A country where world-class universities are able to study almost indifferently in the language of Molière or Shakespeare. A country that welcomes thousands of French people every year who come to study, live and work in a country that succeeds in reconciling the freedom to undertake to the American and the social model to the European. Today, Montreal is the fourth-largest French-speaking city in the world, and the third-largest French-speaking city outside France, after London and Brussels. This country is Canada – you guessed it, congratulations! I have the honour to represent in front of you the approximately 200,000 French residents. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] This country is far from representing, as you claim, an "ecological, agricultural, social and democratic" threat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u37	Canada is not a threat; It's free trade!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to spend the day together until one o'clock in the morning. For the serenity of our debates, it would be good if we could listen to the speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u39	Canada, of course, faces challenges: the challenge of the energy transition, while its economy relies too heavily on the oil sands; the agricultural challenge, with a production model that is still too intensive. Energy transition, agricultural transition, doesn't that remind you of anything? Yes, these are two major challenges that France is also facing. This Canada is far from the one that appears in the caricatures that emerge when some evoke CETA. According to these fearmakers, Canada would only be a bridgehead for American multinationals, ready to invade France and Europe. The beef with hormones and antibiotics would be at our doorstep, accompanied by its fellow transgenic salmon, and hidden behind a mountain of oil sands. Colleagues, this is not Canada I know. That said, a good partner doesn't necessarily make a good deal. In order to fully understand CETA, it is therefore necessary to try to digest the 2000 pages, the result of eight years of negotiations. We must also stick to the facts, and distinguish fantasies and fake news from reality. Let me take an example: the famous Canadian beef. The quotas opened by CETA do not in any way call into question European or French standards, particularly health standards. This was said: the quota opened for Canadian producers represents 0.8% of the European market. Even better, since the implementation of CETA last September, Canadian producers have used 1% of the same quota – 1%, i.e. 0.8%. We are far from the invasion promised by fearmakers! At the same time, Décathlon, the French's favourite company, moved to Montreal; Club Med opens a ski village on the banks of the St. Lawrence River. European beef producers export to Canada around 600 tonnes: that's not much, but it's already twice as much as Canadians export to Europe. Finally, cheese producers have been using since September 95% of the quota that has been open to them, filling with comfort the French I am and all our compatriots who live in Canada, happy to find our Saint-Marcellin, Mont-d'Or and others in quantity and at a reasonable price. So what are we talking about today? Why are we debating this draft resolution? Why ask for a referendum on CETA? [[Exclaims on FI banks]] If this referendum were to take place, you know that it would not be on the more than 2,000 pages of the treaty. It would be one more part between the fearmakers and the supporters of hope; a match between those who prefer to build walls and those who prefer to build bridges; a confrontation between the supporters of the retreat on their own and those who plead for a vigilant openness to the world. [[Same movements]] Finally, it would be an opposition between those who see Europe as responsible for all the problems and those who see it as part of the solution. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Well, let me tell you, this game has already taken place, and you lost it. He brought another leader of just forty years to the Presidency of the Republic; He has brought about a new political generation. That is why I will vote against this resolution, and I urge all my colleagues to do the same. Is this agreement perfect? Of course not. Should its implementation be closely monitored? Of course I do. And that, Secretary of State, we will do it; That is the whole meaning of the intervention of my colleagues in the La République group on the move. We must also learn from the mistakes of our predecessors and ensure that, in the future, these treaties fully integrate the Paris Agreement, and that they are no longer negotiated in catini, in "opacity", as we read in the motion for a resolution. This is the only point on which I find you, ladies and gentlemen of France, unsuspecting – a point on which we have no doubt, by the way, to learn from Canada. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] But please, let us avoid caricature, stop sharpening fears, and let Parliament do its job!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u40	Stop yelling, and listen to the speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u41	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, the agenda is far-fetched: the President of Rugy co-chaired a luncheon with Jacques Chagnon, President of the Quebec National Assembly. The historical relationship between the European Union and Canada is therefore the theme of the day! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The issues raised by the motion for a resolution are important. It is good to discuss it. The Government is happy to answer you, since it is ultimately a matter of the link between international trade and democracy: we are discussing the interest of France in negotiating and concluding trade agreements through the European Union; We are also debating the political processes that must ensure the democratic legitimacy of such agreements. These topics were at the heart of the great citizen debate that animated the country in 2017. We all have in mind the second round of the presidential election, where French citizens have been faced with a clear choice between a policy of closure and isolation on the one hand, and on the other hand the anchoring of France in a European Union which has, since its founding, defended a commercial opening based on rules, not on the law of the jungle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u43	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u44	The response of the French people was clear. However, I do not reduce democracy to this founding vote; Democracy is also a permanent process of public discussion and exchange around the great subjects of the life of the nation. Its beating heart is indeed Parliament, and first and foremost the National Assembly – all of you in this House, who represent the French. Do you think Parliament is so unable to speak on behalf of the French people, to suggest the referendum route?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u45	Parliament is the president's register of wishes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The string is a little big, Mr. Ruffin! It is really a matter for you to create a new theatre of political and media operations to shake fears. We understand that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u47	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u48	You write that "a genuine democratic debate must be the prerequisite for any ratification of this treaty". Well, this democratic debate, not only is the Government ready, but it wants it and it feeds it. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] In this way we have an intense and demanding dialogue with Parliament: work in committee and in public sitting, impact assessment, follow-up table of the work commitments made in the framework of the action plan of 25 October last – I will come back to that. This ratification procedure will meet the challenges. At its conclusion, the National Assembly will take a decision on behalf of the French people. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] "Happy we're here," you say. "Happily there is a parliamentary majority, bringing together the Republic on the move and the MODEM group," I say. They have done a great deal of work to help the Government develop this plan of action, and I would like to welcome their contribution here! This debate on the agreement between the European Union and Canada gives me the opportunity to clarify the Government's position on this trade policy and on the conditions for Parliament's involvement in this policy. Let's go back to the fundamentals. Since the Treaty of Rome, the founding fathers of the Union have decided to make trade policy a European competence: it is up to the Commission to negotiate on behalf of the Member States with our international partners. This choice was first of all technical: since there was a common market, it was essential to create an integrated policy. Beyond that, it is a political choice: in a world of very great powers, like China or the United States, Europe is better understood when it speaks with one voice. The Union of Twenty-eight is strength! In the case of mixed agreements, democratic responsibility is exercised at a dual level. It is taking place at European level, which has been recalled, through the European Council and the European Parliament – and the vote on it was, I would remind you, a very clear majority. It is also practiced at national level, since it is at the same time up to national parliaments to decide, and governments to inform parliaments of the draft negotiations in particular. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] It must be said that the previous governments, both on the right and on the left, have not been exemplary from this point of view. We must reflect on the establishment, in conjunction with the European Commission, of procedures that will enable States to have the necessary elements in real time. It may have been that these processes are not very fluid. That is what we want to put an end to. This is at the core of our discussion: beyond ratification by national parliaments, at the very end of the road, how can we ensure that citizens – thanks to their parliamentarians, but also through a dialogue with organised civil society – are effectively involved in the discussions between the Commission and the Member States, as between Europeans and their partners? The challenge is transparency, without which there is no democratic legitimacy. The will of the Government, which I have the honour today to represent before you, is clear: we must break with past practices, those of the governments appointed by Nicolas Sarkozy or François Hollande, which tended to act in their own corner, without accountability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u49	Good thing Macron wasn't part of any of these governments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u50	I'm just reminding you of what was happening! On the contrary, we want to establish a process that is much more transparent, inclusive and consistent with the ongoing discussions. While important negotiations are under way, particularly with Mercosur, the Government is naturally at the disposal of Parliament to report on France's very firm positions in the Council, both in terms of terms of reference and in negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u51	The agreement with Mercosur is 99000 tonnes of South American meat on our markets!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u52	The CETA Action Plan is the first achievement of this strong and new commitment to dialogue, which requires both substance and method. On the basis of a report by independent experts, on 25 October the Government made a series of commitments. These aren't from anywhere. They shall respond to the points of vigilance indicated in the report; They were defined after a period of consultation with civil society and after a contribution from the majority parliamentarians that I would like to welcome again, because it was both critical, demanding and constructive. What is fruitful, in this majority, is the union of people whose journeys are different. We work, we manage to transcend the divisions, we have the ambition to find together a ridge path. A few years ago, Matthew Orphelin and I might have opposed such a subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u53	I'm not sure it's a compliment to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We have managed to find a path of peak and I also thank Jacques Maire, who was animating this working group with Mr Orphelin. I sincerely believe that the French are precisely waiting for their elected representatives to demonstrate their ability to monitor and evaluate, based on facts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u55	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u56	...but not about rumors or information not always verified. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The Government is now indebted, and that is salutary. We will report to Parliament, on a very regular basis, which accurately describes the implementation of the action plan. In this way, I wanted a follow-up table to be developed, made public and posted in the next few days so that transparency would be complete. This table will need to be updated at least quarterly, perhaps more when there is evidence to justify it. Similarly, the impact assessment to be submitted to Parliament at the time of the tabling of the ratification bill will be in line with the commitments made in the action plan, in particular for measuring the impact on sensitive agricultural sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u57	If all this is true, why do you refuse the referendum?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u58	This impact assessment must also be a new generation. The 2008 constitutional reform, which instituted impact assessments, was not necessarily implemented in a demanding manner. The Government will therefore use the expertise of research centres such as CEPII – the Centre for Study and Research in International Economics – to provide Parliament with particularly fine information to make informed decisions. I know the Committee on Foreign Affairs and its chairman are very active on this subject. We will be committed to making progress together. As you know, I gather with Brune Poirson, each quarter, the Trade Policy Monitoring Committee, which brings together parliamentarians and NGOs, and which allows for regular dialogue – Mrs Autain, you are taking part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u59	There's no dialogue! You're just telling us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u60	In addition, I am naturally available to the relevant standing committees. Our objective is clear: to ensure that Parliament is fully informed about the ongoing negotiations, in order to give full meaning to the Government's oversight activity by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u61	What a tongue of wood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u62	Beyond the recasting of the dialogue between Parliament and the Government, France has a great ambition for European trade policy. The challenge is both internal and external: trade policy gives the European Union an opportunity to show how, by setting international trade rules, it can shape globalisation. The President of the Republic has made this clear to Davos: the course of globalization is not sustainable as it is. We need a deep and lasting renewal of multilateralism. But we are not in a world at the borders of reality – to hear you earlier, I felt like I was in X-Files. It is about building strong multilateralism to put an end to tax competition among States, to coordinate our actions against global warming and to regulate at the international level the consequences of digital technology on the economy and on our private lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u63	Did you discuss it in Davos and Versailles?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u64	Trade agreements are also a means of disseminating the European Union's model and influence around the world. The Government is fully aware that there is still a long way to go. But we will be intractable in order to avoid any destabilization of economic sectors, particularly agricultural sectors. That is why we strongly urge Brussels to define a maximum overall package of concessions that can be made in a number of sensitive sectors. Yes, our producers need visibility, we need to give them a framework in which they can act. We still need to raise the level of demands in the climate and environmental agreements. This is the ambition of the CETA Action Plan, which we will report to you on a regular basis. As of February 1, the available information indicates that French exporters are in a position to seize new opportunities in Canada and that the potential risks identified by independent experts have not been realized. I quote a few figures to which Roland Lescure referred: the quantities planned for European cheeses have been allocated almost entirely; the tariff quotas were thus used at 93%. On the other hand, in terms of the quantities expected for Canadian meat, the figures indicate that the quota has been used very little: only 103.2 tonnes have been allocated or imported, or 1.1% of the total. The European market has therefore not submerged or destabilised. On the contrary, European exporters were able to benefit from the opening of the Canadian market. In all cases, the accompanying and guiding measures of CETA shall be deployed. First, the development of trade flows will continue to be monitored in depth on a monthly basis. The European Commission presented a report on 11 November which provides an update on all trade agreements and their impact. In the case of Korea, five years after the signing of the Agreement, the European Union's trade balance, which was in deficit, has again become a beneficiary. So there is no fatality. Trade agreements are also opportunities for our producers. In addition, the Government is mobilizing to ensure that the possibility of private capture of the regulator, identified by the independent experts' report, does not occur. We are working on a climate veto. The Commission is not only receptive, but has informed us of its intention to work on it. I also obtained assurances from Canada. We will be able to work on the joint interpretative declaration to ensure that our environmental standards cannot be abused. This agreement is alive – one of you said so. It will live through sectoral committees which will begin to meet in the spring, with a view to a first joint committee next September. I welcome the fact that the European Commission launched a public call for proposals on 18 January to define a list of topics on which European and Canadian regulators could cooperate in the future. We want each party to retain the right to regulate, at the level it deems appropriate. Dialogue offers an opportunity to convince Canada to move closer to European standards. The Investment Court, which was found to be in conformity with the Constitution, has been significantly improved over the original project. Work is under way on the establishment of a code of ethics. We want to go to a permanent court to get out of the logic of arbitration and develop common tools. Finally, with regard to the framework for the implementation of CETA, the Government is mobilized to ensure that Canadian products comply effectively with sanitary and phytosanitary standards. The 2016 audit was satisfactory: it did not identify any traceability problems. France would like another audit to be carried out quickly. In any event, products which do not comply with European legislation, such as beef raised with hormones or transgenic salmon, Mrs Panot, will not be allowed to enter European territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u65	Fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u66	Who will control it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u67	Health checks will ensure that this is done in law and in fact. We have efficient control tools that have proven their worth. Beyond the trade agreement, we are working with our Canadian partners to strengthen our two countries' cooperation in the fight against global warming to address some of the treaty's shortcomings. On these issues, Justin Trudeau's Canada and Emmanuel Macron's France share a common ambition. Nicolas Hulot and Catherine McKenna, the environment ministers of both countries, met in December and are working on this ambitious bilateral action plan to be announced this year. The final focus of the CETA Action Plan is to significantly enhance the ambition of the chapters on sustainable development that are included in trade agreements. On this point, know that in Brussels, France is clearly identified as the best friend of the environment. If you're not convinced, go ahead and ask our partners! One of our main demands is that any signatory to a trade agreement with the European Union undertake to implement in practice the Paris climate agreement. In other words, no Paris agreement, no free trade agreement. The Americans know what to do. Commercial openness thus becomes a powerful incentive to accelerate the ecological transition. We are fighting on all the other subjects. In the framework of the mandate negotiations for Australia and New Zealand, we call for a guarantee of respect for the application of the precautionary principle in the European Union. We would also like to ask our partners for commitments to respect the conventions of the International Labour Organization. In a word: we act, we negotiate! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As you understand, the Government is proposing a method and a goal. The method is based on a trusting and ongoing dialogue between Parliament and the Government. The objective is to mobilise trade policy to promote the European model and the success of French terroirs and territories. The road will be arduous, it begins today. Parliament's strong support will be an asset for the Government's work with its European and international partners. I thank the majority for their support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u68	The general discussion is closed. On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u69	In the explanations of vote, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u70	Secretary of State, we have noted the fervour with which you have defended an agreement that you have not taken any part in since it was not your government that dealt with it. You challenged our attitude by deploring that we were acting on the basis of rumours. Note that if rumours spread for a time, it was because it was impossible to access the text: no national parliamentarian could do so; Members of the European Parliament were allowed to enter the room where the text was, with a ban on having a pencil, taking pictures or making copies. This is the conditions under which CETA was negotiated! I do not repeat the arguments that have just been developed. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to reflect on one point. Let us disagree on free trade, I admit – we are hostile to it because we do not believe that it brings anything to humanity. But let's put this question aside. There is still one that for a Frenchman has a lot of meaning: this agreement provides that multinationals will not be subject to the law of the country in which they intervene. In other words, whatever legislation we vote on, it will not be binding on multinationals. Even though we would have taken all the precautions in the world against their abuses, if they were to be found, these companies would not be answerable to us. The court that you are pleased to see is permanent does not apply the law of the countries in which the activity takes place. It is a court in which justice professionals of all levels are once a lawyer, the other time a judge – they judge on the basis of the jurisprudence of Anglo-Saxon private commercial law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If only for this reason, a Republican cannot accept CETA. And this has nothing to do with the affection we have for Canadians – it is total, especially for Quebecers who are our brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u71	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u72	Everyone agrees on the importance of this treaty for the economy of our country and for the daily life of the French. In some respects, it will have even more impact on our economy and on the lives of the French than many of the laws that are debated and voted in Parliament. How, then, can such opacity be justified in the negotiation and ratification of this Treaty? What's to be afraid of? What provisions do they contain that could not be debated by our Assembly and by the people? Yet the free trade and financial liberalism that inspire the philosophy of this treaty fail to meet human needs. However, Oxfam's report shows that 82% of the world's wealth benefits 1% of the world's population and that the poorest 50% do not reap any benefits. It is indeed an entire international economic system that is failing and that produces misery and war. Beyond the debate and disagreements on this treaty, our group absolutely does not understand the objections that are raised to the motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party. Given the importance of the stakes of this treaty, it seems legitimate to call upon the intelligence of the French people to decide and thus respond to the aspirations of the latter, as well as of all the peoples of the world, to control his destiny. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Beyond the debate on CETA itself, the question asked is a democratic and principled question: do we refer to public debate and submit to the people our country's decision to ratify this treaty or not? And it is not a debate in Parliament several months after the implementation of the Treaty that will be able to fill this democratic deficit! The decision of the Government and the majority thus betrays a mistrust of the people, which is unbearable to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u74	The next speaker is Mrs Annie Chapelier, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u75	We live in a reality, that of globalization and its corollary, free trade. You don't choose your reality, but you can change it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u76	Not by your policy, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u77	We are on the eve of the ratification of a trade agreement with another country. But this other country is Canada, a brotherly country, a friendly country – we have repeated it – with which we share our essential values, in particular the definition we give to democracy, but also to the place of each and every one of us in society. It's not nothing. To deny the existence of international trade by refusing any form of agreement will not, however, make it disappear. It's called ostrich politics. On the other hand, to ensure, as President Emmanuel Macron has done, to build an exemplary, evolving and living agreement, in terms of both environmental and health rules and social justice, and to this end to request an independent report such as the Schubert report, which advocates monitoring implementation, which we will do with demand and vigilance, as the Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne said, was the right method. Our only answer must be to regulate international trade,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u78	That's not what you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ...not to caricature and deny it. It is with knowledge that our fellow citizens have given us their confidence. That is why I shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u80	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u81	They voted last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u82	I indicated this this morning during my speech in the general discussion: the members of the group The Republicans have the freedom to vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u83	Not the other times?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u84	Within the Republican Group, there is always freedom to vote on any text. It's statutory, it's...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u85	It's constitutional!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... and we make it, on each text, a use that some would do well to draw inspiration from!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u88	Thanks to the Group of the European People's Party, we have referred to CETA, although we have not been able to examine its content. This was said to be a major trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, which will have a direct impact on consumers, producers and all French citizens in their daily lives. With regard to such an agreement, the democratic requirement cannot be ignored. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I listened to you, Mr Secretary of State, and I regret that, on a subject like this, we were sometimes too much in postures or even in caricature. The oppositions, Secretary of State, work just as much as the parliamentary majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u90	There's a real opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u91	Perhaps there was a working group, but it was more confined to a clan than to a larger group. On a subject like this, I regret it. With regard to the democratic requirement, the French did not support the idea that power should be confiscated by some. I am delighted that today, at last, national representation can work on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As I said, in my personal capacity, I will vote against the motion for a resolution, because I believe more than ever in the importance of Parliament and the public debate in this House, which represents the democracy of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u94	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Naegelen, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u95	I will address a number of points concerning this motion for a resolution. Is CETA perfect? Clearly, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u96	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u97	Not at all, even!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u98	Should we discuss this in a democratic way?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u99	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u100	[["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] It is clear that it is. Do we have to go through a referendum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u102	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] ... and thus reduce the role of Parliament, even more than we are currently doing? I don't think so. It is a pity that the study of this text did not take place well upstream. As members of our group have the same complete freedom to vote as those of the Republican Group, some will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I'll vote with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u104	... but we will vote mostly against. In any case, we will be vigilant during the CETA study, which is normally scheduled for the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u105	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u106	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u107	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u108	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law by Mr Bastien Lachaud and others to make access to water an inalienable right (No. 498, 594).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u109	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u110	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, Plato, who dominates the centuries and our debates, already affirmed the right to water in Les Lois: "If the shortage deprives someone of the necessary drinking water, he will draw it from his neighbours. If the neighbors have only the right thing to do, they will have their water fixed by the public officials and will obtain it from the neighbors every day. This quote illustrates the universality and consistency of basic human needs. Ladies and gentlemen, today in France, some of our fellow citizens do not have access to water for their lives and for their dignity. Do not think that France is spared by the problems of access to water! Of course, there is running water in a vast majority of households, but not in all. Overseas countries are particularly affected:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u112	... water quality is on average lower and is even more pressured there; Network performance is only 53%, compared to 80% in metropolitan France. According to the French Guiana Water Board, 46,000 people do not have direct access to a drinking water service and, when water is accessible, it is not necessarily safe to drink. In France, in general, only 43% of surface water is in good condition. Last week, nitrate pollution exceeded the standard and made tap water unfit for consumption was observed in fourteen communes between Saintes and Pons in Charente-Maritime. But, apart from that, everything is fine, and the existing laws are sufficient! No one can seriously believe it. Perhaps you will tell me that the Environment Charter already protects water resources? However, water is far from being adequately protected: every year, areas are in tension or even in shortage, and measures to restrict water are taken. The resource is scarce because of conflicts of use, particularly between the use of people and industrial or agricultural use. There is a concrete issue to recognize the right to water. Social, trade union and associative actors are unanimous in finding that the right of access to water, if recognized in principle, is not truly effective. France is lagging behind its international commitments: since 2010, a UN General Assembly resolution recognizes access to safe drinking water and sanitation as a fundamental right, "essential to the full enjoyment of life and the enjoyment of all human rights". Article 14 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women of 1979 affirms the right "to enjoy adequate living conditions, including water supply", and article 24 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989 requires States parties to take "appropriate measures to combat disease and malnutrition through, inter alia, the provision of drinking water". The purpose of this proposed constitutional law is therefore to translate these international commitments into our legal order, thereby guaranteeing the effectiveness of the right to water. France, a country of human rights, is not yet the country of the right to water. A constitutional revision similar to the one proposed today was adopted in 2015 by Slovenia. The bill is therefore perfectly achievable. It is compatible with European law, which allows for a public water monopoly. The majority will be happy to recall article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code amended in 2006, to claim that the right to water already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u113	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u114	This article provides that "each natural person, for food and hygiene, has the right to access drinking water under conditions economically acceptable to all". But without free, this is clearly insufficient. Reference could also be made to article L. 115-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families, which came out of the so-called "Brottes" Act, which provides that in the event of non-payment of an invoice, the supply of water shall be maintained until a decision has been taken on the application for assistance to which the person or family is entitled by the community. Without constitutional value, this is totally inadequate. For the time being, case law exists only because Veolia and SAUR – an urban and rural development company – have tried to reverse this law prohibiting water cuts. And the right to water is protected only as it is backed by the right to housing. But what about those who don't have housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u116	All this does not at all ensure the free supply of the first cubic metres of water: I recall that the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation of November 2017 today prohibits municipalities from providing a certain amount of free water. But what is a right that is not effective? A right to vote without an election? A right of expression without a free press? A right to housing without housing available? A right to education without a school? However, this is what happens with the right to water. Everyone has the right to water in theory, but in fact some do not have access to it. I assert that only the first cubic metres of water are free to make the right to water effective. If this amount of water necessary to preserve life and dignity is not free and easily accessible, then all our texts are just sentences. But that's what's going on. Today in France, men, women, even children have no access to water. Being clean, not feeling bad: these are daily concerns for thousands of our fellow citizens, due to a lack of free access to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u118	Because I'm not just talking about the poorest people, the people without housing, with precarious housing, or too poor to pay the water bill. This is a universal right that we propose to include explicitly in the constitutional bloc. This is a real choice of society: does everyone have to pay for access to the quantity of water necessary for their dignity, or does we consider that, since it is a fundamental right, access to water cannot be conditioned to anything? If we accept that the first cubic metres of water will be paid, that the fixed share of a subscription for individuals will be paid, then we will one day accept that the air we breathe will become paid! I shall be in vain to object that the proposal for a revision infringes on the free administration of local and regional authorities. But no freedom is absolute. The free administration of communities is already limited...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u119	She's too much already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u120	...by law and the Constitution. It is simply a matter of reserving water management to the public service, because water is a common good, indispensable for life and dignity. It is scandalous that at present private companies profit by exploiting what is a common good. We must put an end to this grabbing, because beyond the great phrases on free administration, leaving open the possibility for the private to manage water is simply to protect the profits of a small oligarchy of three large private, powerful and predatory companies. I would also like to point out that the system of governance is already largely in the majority since it concerns more than 24,000 communes in the country out of the 36,000 that it counts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u121	That's almost 70%!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u122	... and that large private operators are only present in the most profitable and urbanised areas. This would therefore be a change only for those who now have to pay for more expensive water to meet the profitability requirements of private companies. For example, in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, of which I am one of the deputies, water is more expensive than in Paris, while the majority of its inhabitants have less resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u124	How can this difference be explained? Paris is under municipal control, while water in Seine-Saint-Denis is managed by Veolia. Do you think that there are significantly more difficulties in transporting and sanitizing water in the nearby suburbs than in Paris? Of course not: the price difference is explained by the simple fact that Veolia wants to generate profit, to pay shareholders, while the public service is for the sole purpose of delivering drinking water to the inhabitants. This requirement does not come from an absurdly state ideology. Only a public service can guarantee social and ecological pricing, because companies have – it is normal – an imperative of profitability or even profitability. This imperative cannot apply to water! Clearly including the right to water as a fundamental right of constitutional value requires a translation into ordinary law for more precise measures, such as the obligation to have free water points, toilets and shower baths, as well as progressive pricing. Today, therefore, it is a matter of translating our international commitments into French law, at the top of the hierarchy of norms, by adopting this draft constitutional law, to ensure that people have an inalienable right to have free access to the quantity of water necessary for their lives and dignity, because dignity is too important to ensure that the means of access to it are not guaranteed by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, don't pretend you don't know. You see people living on the street. You have certainly already seen like me, with a tight heart, people trying to wash themselves there, preserving both their dignity and their dignity. We can all do something today and now. By voting on this constitutional revision proposal, you will be able to relieve all these people of their daily quest for water and dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, really, if you consider it compatible with your dignity to go wash in front of everyone on the subway, give us a demonstration. If not, vote on the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u125	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u126	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I say to you clearly, and I believe that we share a vision, principles and values – you will no doubt tell me this. With this proposed constitutional law, you propose to enshrine, in the founding text of our Republic, a principle recalling that water is a common good of humanity. You propose to include in our Constitution a fundamental, inalienable right to water, and indeed to guarantee everyone's access to the quantity of drinking water essential for life and dignity. Universal access to water is a goal that I share personally and to which the Government fully supports. This goal is fully integrated into the sustainable development goals, the universal agenda adopted by the United Nations in 2015, aimed at eradicating extreme poverty by 2030. Water is a common good, we are absolutely convinced, in this Republic of the commons that we must build to manage, share and protect the natural resources and the great balances of ecosystems that allow the water, the air that we breathe, the soil that we cultivate, to be the support of the whole of life. The ecological transition that Nicolas Hulot is carrying is, as I said, building a republic of commons. I do not claim to pose myself before you as a theoretician of this concept, which appeals to our ethics, our morals, our values. But it seems obvious to us that, if we do not put at the heart of our political project not only equal access for all, for the satisfaction of its basic needs, to air, water, but also the right to a preserved climate, in the face of the consequences of climate change, we will not be able to succeed in this transition. The environmental crises, which are the crucible of poverty in the twenty-first century and which hit the poorest, are a major source of inequality. This is indisputable and documented, in particular, by World Bank reports. But common goods are threatened by major climatic imbalances, but more fundamentally also by the economic history of our societies. If, in France, there are few cases in which our citizens are deprived of access to water for their basic needs, the climate future of our country can leave a concern about how, collectively, we will manage the shortage. Human societies have never been very wise in dealing with shortages and resources are often one of the factors of conflict, or aggravation of conflict. To build a republic of the commons is therefore to agree on a few main principles guided by ethics, by the values of solidarity and dignity, which will allow us to deal together, in a calmed way, with this question of sharing and protecting common goods. Water is one of those. As you said, the rapporteur, our legislative framework already enshrines, in Article 1 of the Water and Aquatic Environments Act of 2006, the right to access drinking water under conditions that are economically acceptable to all. "The use of water belongs to all." This is a fine principle, which certainly does not have the constitutional scope that you propose to give it, but which already governs our action. So, what about the exercise of this principle in France? Today, the average bill for a French household, which includes drinking water and sanitation, is about 500 euros per year. The price of water is the price of the service – collection, treatment, distribution and networks – which is charged to the user. It is fixed locally by the community – community or inter-community – or by the drinking water union to which it has entrusted the organization of the service, if necessary under a contract of delegation of service to a private company. The average price of drinking water and sanitation service TTC on 1 January 2015, for an annual consumption of 120 cubic metres – average consumption reference for a household – is 3.98 euros per cubic metre. This value corresponds to an average monthly expenditure per subscriber of EUR 39.80 per month for the reference consumption I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u127	What about the cost of the subscription?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u128	This price of water reflects the cost of a service rendered, which varies according to the operating conditions of the service – geophysical, economic and financial context – and the performance requirements of the organizing community – quality and sustainability of the service. It therefore varies according to the characteristics of the territory. Water price differentials can be quite large from one territory to another. We have discussed this on other occasions in recent discussions. Many context factors – technical complexity of the service, source of water, sensitivity of the receiving environment, dispersal of habitat, tourist pressure – as well as policy choices in terms of management and quality of service, as well as maintenance of the heritage, help explain these price differences. Sustainable Development Goal 6 – SDG 6 – targets access to water and sanitation for all. It identifies several targets to be met, including access to services, restoration of water quality, restoration of aquatic environments, and good water management for transboundary basins. In Europe, all these targets are covered by the European Water Policy, which includes the major directives such as the Water Framework Directive, the Urban Wastewater Directive and the Drinking Water Directive. Overall, France has already achieved the majority of SDG 6 targets, which constitute an international standard. However, French water actors, in particular ASTEE – Association scientifique et technique pour l'eau et l'environnement – and the French Water Partnership have highlighted the fact that access to water supply and sanitation services remains a problem for certain categories of people and in certain territories, in particular – you have reminded us – overseas – in Mayotte for example, as well as in French Guiana and the West Indies. Finally, the sustainability of water management imposed by SDO 6 must re-examine French water policy in the light of the challenges of climate change. However, rapporteur, there are two principles that we do not agree with in your proposed constitutional law. The first is the question of freedom, which opposes a founding principle of our water policy. This principle is "water pays for water". It is based on a reality: if water is a common good – which I reaffirm – its supply, whether it be pipelines or clean-up services, has a cost. This cost is borne by the community; It must put in place solutions to meet the needs of all our citizens. If we do not subscribe to the principle of freedom, we recognize that there is a form of precariousness in our country on water, as well as on energy. The law currently allows for the establishment of support systems for the poorest. Public water and sewerage services may already make non-value admissions and gratuitous discounts to subscribers of the service, in the case of public distributors, or waivers of debt, in the case of private distributors. In addition, in a majority of French municipalities, persons in debt may apply to the communal or intercommunal centres for social action or to the manager of the Fonds de solidarité pour le logement, so that these bodies can cover part of their water debt – or their expenses, in the case of collective housing. In addition, the law of 15 April 2013, known as the Brottes Act, which you alluded to, prohibits any distributor from cutting off the water supply in a main residence, even in case of unpaid payments, throughout the year. It is the guarantee of access to water for the poorest, who are in a difficult financial situation. Beyond emergency curative systems, the Government is also pursuing preventive solutions. In this context, section 28 of the Act introduced, for those communities that wish to do so, the possibility of experimenting with a view to "promoting access to water and implementing social water pricing". Thus, the 50 voluntary communities have the possibility, for five years, until 16 April 2018, to set up new water or sanitation tariffs – which may concern these two areas – as well as systems of aid for the payment of water bills, in order to guarantee better access to these services for the poorest. The initial results achieved by these communities are interesting, but are too few and too recent to allow, at the national level, to determine whether it is desirable to generalize some of the solutions implemented throughout the territory. We therefore need to provide for the extension of this experiment. The second principle to which we do not subscribe is to reserve water management solely to local and regional authorities and the State. Currently, the right to water and sanitation is regulated by numerous laws and regulations, including the conditions for resource sharing, rights and duties and quality standards, and is implemented by competent local authorities legally and technically, and in charge of financial planning and resolution of potential conflicts. As a result, drinking water supply and sanitation are not currently managed solely by the private sector. The community remains responsible, even in the case of a public service delegation. The current drafting of the text would reflect the possibility for communities to delegate jurisdiction to the private sector, forcing them to manage directly. This would directly contradict the principle of community self-government and would be detrimental to the quality of service offered by communities without the necessary technical, human or financial resources. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic announced, at the National Conference of Territories, the organization, in 2018, of Assises de l'eau which will be led by the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. These foundations will provide an opportunity not only to modernize water governance, to integrate climate change issues into our water management, but also, I am sure, to extend the debate on the issues you raise regarding the exercise of the right to water. That is why, although a number of your objectives and concerns are common to those of the Government, the Government is opposed to this constitutional bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u129	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u130	[[Applause on several benches of the FI and REM groups]] Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the proposed constitutional law, I would like to welcome two decisions taken today by the Government for La Réunion. In the first place, the state of natural disaster has just been recognized, following the passage of Cyclone Berguitta. This decision, it must be said, was taken quickly. Secondly, I welcome the decision of COPERMO – the Interministerial Committee for Performance and Modernisation of the Care Supply – to support the investment of EUR 50 million for the CHU – University Hospital – in Saint-Pierre. When it's good, you have to say it! I now turn to the agenda. This proposal for a constitutional law of France is designed to make access to water an inalienable right. Our colleague Bastien Lachaud, rapporteur for this text, has set out very well the general principles that we are pursuing. In recent years, the guarantee of access to safe drinking water in our country has undoubtedly been progressing. And because: the UN General Assembly Resolution of 28 July 2010 recognizes access to safe drinking water and sanitation as a fundamental right, essential to all human rights. In addition, the law of 15 April 2013 prohibits water cuts in the event of unpaid invoices. However, if this drinking water flows to the tap of almost all the equipped dwellings, the situation remains very worrying for the poorest of us, because water has a cost. Also, not everyone has a roof or simply a house equipped with drinking water. However, the right to decent housing, with access to water, is an objective of constitutional value, recognized by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 19 January 1995. It must be said that the right to water cannot be guaranteed without its free will. The question of the recognition and implementation of the right to water as we propose, in fact, characterizes the capacity of our societies to meet the basic needs of the people. We all know that when the human body lacks 2% water, we feel thirst. From 10% it's dehydration and delirium. And at 12%, we're dying. Water is not an optional consumer good: it is an essential resource for life. We therefore propose that the right to water be enshrined in the Charter of the Environment, and then declined into legislative measures. Thus, this right would become invocable by all. This right to water must be accompanied by concrete measures to develop, maintain distribution or collection infrastructures and create access points to water such as fountains, toilets and public showers. In short, the effectiveness of this right would require free water for a volume corresponding to what is necessary for life and dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is of paramount importance: that is why we want to place these commitments at the top of the hierarchy of standards. Beyond legal issues, it is important to address the real problems of universal access to water and to provide concrete responses to those who do not have direct access to water or live in precarious habitats. Today, more than 100,000 people in France have no access to drinking water, and more than one million households spend more than 3% of their budget on paying water bills. Should we also recall the unequal access to water, particularly in the overseas regions? I will quote a figure: in the West Indies, the average price per cubic metre is 2 euros higher than that of hexagon. On the other hand, on the other hand, water is on average of less good quality. In concrete terms, what do we propose? Free of charge for the first cubic metres of water needed for life, as well as free installation of water meters and cancellation of subscriptions. This free of charge will have to be set out in a simple law, drawn up with managers, citizens' associations, users and trade unions, involving water agencies. In addition, progressive and differentiated pricing should be put in place to penalize abuse. Indeed, in France, we believe that the same access to water cannot be offered, depending on whether it will be used to meet the vital needs or to fuel the profits of multinationals. In addition, the opening or creation of public drinking water points, sanitary facilities and public shower baths should become mandatory in the municipalities. As the substance of this proposal has been put forward, I shall take a step forward in responding to objections that some speakers will not fail to raise. First, we are told that "it is not the right vehicle", that the right to water should not be enshrined in the Constitution, because it would serve only to define the relationship between the different powers of the Republic. If you really think so, you should also ask that we erase the motto "Freedom, equality, fraternity", which proclaims principles rather than defines relations between powers. You see the ridiculous argument! The Constitution also serves to affirm the main principles of the Republic, and not only to ensure the balance of powers. It guarantees what the French people consider to be the most important. However, at a time of ecological emergency, water is a priority for the people. And I want to say it here in this House. Secondly, we are told that this bill does not guarantee a concrete right since it only enshrines a general principle. We accept this, since we state in the explanatory memorandum that the adoption of this bill will then require the adoption of an ordinary law for its practical implementation. Thirdly, we are told that article L.210-1 of the Environmental Code and the Brottes Act enshrine the right of access to drinking water and prohibit cuts. Of course, but these principles are so general that they do not open up effective rights. I recall: more than 100,000 people in France do not have access to water. If these provisions were effective, we would not be faced with such a situation. I come back: without income or housing, at present the right to water is not guaranteed since water is paid. I repeat again: only free water really allows access to water for all. Without this free of charge, all these texts are reduced to declarations of intent. Fourthly, we will be opposed to the idea that we would like all water to be free, which would entail a significant cost to the State. That's not true, I already said it! We offer a price differentiated according to the uses: the first cubic meters free, the rest paid. Moreover, it is not a question of imposing a state monopoly but of excluding private management. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me say that we must not be afraid of having a heart and that the motion for rejection proposed by some is a cynical, selfish and anti-social act. The La République en marche group has tabled a motion to reject it beforehand. If it is voted, the discussion will end there. However, I would find it unacceptable that such a law should not be debated in this House, which is supposed to represent the whole population. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If it's a problem that this text comes from our ranks, take it! We're offering it to you! It's yours! Rest assured: no accusation of plagiarism will be made, for it is in the interests of the people, and that is our sole objective. We do not have the right to exclude disadvantaged people, nor do we have the right to take over natural elements essential to life. Water is not a commodity like any other! Water is life! Water belongs to our Mother Earth and not to a few individuals who exploit it. Water is a right and it is simply inhumane to deliberately deprive some of us of access to it. Water is a common good and, as such, its accessibility to all, free of charge, deserves to be included in our Constitution. The people thirst for humanity. The right to water for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u131	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, France is not facing a water shortage challenge as is the case in other parts of the world, which makes it a privileged territory. Yet, on the one hand, we are wasting it and, on the other, many of our fellow citizens do not have guaranteed access to safe drinking water and sanitation – I am thinking first of all of homeless people or poorly housed families, for whom access to water and hygiene is extremely difficult. Our country is not able to provide all the necessary conditions for basic dignity. In addition, many modest families have difficulty paying their bills and spend too much of their income on access to water. Finally, our consumption model and production model endanger our water resources and cause ever greater pollution of water tables and streams. Water, however, is a common good of humanity, which cannot be undermined by the pursuit of profits and the well-being of shareholders. This bill is a salutary call to take full advantage of these issues and finally to make the right to water, which is a fundamental right, effective. The right to water is the right of a person to have, on a daily basis, sufficient drinking water to meet his or her basic needs, to have facilities to ensure his or her hygiene, privacy and dignity or to have access to such facilities, and to be able to use sanitation services and networks in conditions compatible with his or her resources. The single article of this bill proposes that we enshrine the right to water in domestic law as a fundamental right by including it in the Charter of the Environment, that is, in our constitutional bloc, the highest legal norm. Its inclusion in this Charter will thus give its fullness to the human right to drinking water and sanitation. This transcription into domestic law is all the more urgent since international law has done so for many years. Indeed, in international law – the explanatory memorandum of this bill reminds us – the right to water is a fundamental right. In 2000, the UN General Assembly declared that "the right to clean water is a fundamental human right. Similarly, a United Nations resolution in 2010 stressed "the importance of equitable access to safe and clean drinking water and sanitation, which is an integral part of the realization of all human rights". Thus, it was necessary to be consistent with international law and to include the right to water as a fundamental right. If since 2006 and the Law on Water and Aquatic Environments – the so-called LEMA Law – our right provides that "every natural person, for his food and hygiene, has the right to access drinking water, under conditions economically acceptable to all", it is clear that this is not yet the case, twelve years later. There is therefore an urgent need to address discrimination in access to water in our country. First, there is economic inequality. On average, the budget of French households devoted to water is 1.25%. However, this share increases significantly for the poorest households, exceeding 3 per cent for many households and up to 6 per cent for the lowest incomes. This rate of effort is not acceptable, it is far too important. The United Nations Development Programme itself defines an effort rate exceeding 3 per cent for a household as untolerable. The difficulties are real for many French families, who cannot pay all or part of their water bills, which leads to dramatic situations. The Brottes Act of 15 April 2013 partially addressed these difficulties by trying to put an end to intolerable water cuts. However, there are still illegitimate practices on the part of private companies aimed at leaving only a thin net of water in the event of unpaid invoices. The current aid system is weak and ineffective because it is essentially curative because it does not anticipate the difficulties of households sufficiently upstream. The Solidarity Fund for Housing is struggling to help all families in difficulty. Funding for the fund is too random and a quarter of the departments have not included access to water in their prerogatives. In addition, the fund pays at best 30 per cent of an invoice per year. Management costs are very high compared to the aid provided. There is a need for early agreement on another system, such as a solidarity grant that would act preventively for the most modest households, as in the 2015 bill – in which I was involved – aimed at the effective implementation of the human right to drinking water and sanitation, a bill which, unfortunately, had been emptied of its substance by the then Government through amendments abolishing the financing of the scheme. Other proposals, such as the one we are discussing, tend to ensure free access to water for the first cubic metres. The proposals are there, they exist and can improve the lives of many of our fellow citizens. It is up to us, parliamentarians, to take advantage of this bill to seize these issues and work on this fundamental issue of access to water. Moreover, the territorial disparities in tariffs are very large, ranging from simple to triple – I am thinking in particular of the overseas situation. If the average price per cubic metre is about 3.85 euros, its price exceeds 5 euros, and may even be close to 10 euros, in some areas. The ultramarine inhabitants, for example, pay an average cubic metre more than 5 euros. In addition, there is a much lower efficiency of the network, which is only 53% compared to 79.9% in metropolitan France. Half of the water delivered thus disappears, wasted as a result of defective pipelines, which is of great economic and ecological concern for these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u133	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u134	Finally, in a 2010 report, the Council of State recommended the reopening of fountains, showers and public toilets in order to ensure access to safe drinking water and hygiene for the poor. Together with others, the GDR Group supported these demands in the previous legislature by defending the obligation to set up such structures. It would be a measure of common sense guaranteeing the dignity of all, fully in line with France's unsubstantiated approach. However, all these measures to promote access to water and sanitation for all will only make sense if, at the same time, we fight strongly against waste and soil pollution. The recognition of the right to water as a fundamental right naturally goes hand in hand with the necessary change in the way we produce and consume. According to the 2014 report of the Office of the Commissioner of Sustainable Development, water quality problems are responsible for 41% of the 4811 catchments abandoned between 1998 and 2008. Today, 8.5% of captures do not meet the permitted thresholds. In addition, 63% of metropolitan groundwater monitoring points and 93% of surface rivers contain pesticides. Water pollution, particularly by nitrates, is a growing problem. All these challenges require that the state take over water management, in the service of our citizens. In conclusion, I stress that the single article of this bill has a real ambition for our society: an ambition of social justice, an ecological ambition, the ambition of a profound change in society. That is why the GDR Group will vote in favour of this text because this bill reflects the desire to sanctify our common goods, finally to consider water as a non-profit commodity and to promote a model of society that we share. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Since I have a minute left, I would like to say to some of our colleagues that calling for a referendum is a call for the intelligence of our fellow citizens. You mustn't be afraid of it! The 2005 referendum was the occasion of a very high-level popular debate This is perhaps the time when the French and French took the issue of the European Union most seriously, which was good for the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u136	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u137	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this text addresses a fundamental issue: the right to water. Water, this small molecule formed by an oxygen atom bound to two hydrogen atoms, is a gift of nature and a mystery of the cosmos. It is not necessary for life, it is life, "the greatest wealth in the world, and also the most delicate," said Antoine de Saint-Exupéry in Terre des hommes in 1939. But water is not a good like any other. It belongs to no one, it does not consume itself, it does not acquire itself, it only passes, traverses, circulates, it inevitably returns to the natural environment. This is the cycle of water we learned at school. However, the little miracle of water flowing to the tap for all, in France, to which we no longer pay attention, is a recent achievement – especially in rural areas – expected for centuries. I am not going to repeat the story, but we can consider that at the end of the 1950s, access to water is still archaic: we continue to pick it up from the well or the fountain. It is important to remember all of this to remember the value of our drinking water distribution and treatment systems, as well as the progress that this represents. Its pumping, its treatment, its transport to the taps of the individuals, in short, the whole service of access to water has a cost: it requires infrastructure, investments, skills, operating costs. Access to water can therefore only have a price, directly or indirectly. Abuses have been noted, but the root of the problem is the confusion between the legitimate argument that access to water has a price and the argument that water is a source of profit. Like you, we are obviously attached to the fact that water does not become the object of commodification and speculation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u138	That's already the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u139	...to ensure that everyone has access to a sufficient volume of drinking water to remain worthy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u140	That's not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u141	Like you, we are committed to exercising our duty of humanity, but we will not use demagogic means to achieve these ends.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u142	Say you don't agree with us, but don't insult us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u143	As our leader for this text, Catherine Kamowski, has said very well in the Committee on the Law, whose work I welcome, your proposal for a law does not bring anything new except the extra heaviness. I do not go back here to the contributions of the Brottes Act of 2013, nor to article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code. In addition, this text may lead to legal cacophony. Indeed, raising the right to water as a constitutional principle runs counter to another constitutional principle, that of the free administration of local and regional authorities, as set out in article 72 of the Constitution. To include the principle of the right to water in our founding text would be to open Pandora's box. Administrative remedies would multiply, to find out which of the two principles prevails over the other, creating difficulties for our communities, our citizens and our jurisdictions. Regardless, water resources, like water and sanitation skills, must be managed as close as possible to the watersheds and watersheds. Local elected officials must be trusted to provide quality water at the best price, to monitor the delivery of their water services, whether delegated or governed, and to address the social emergency, ensuring access to water for all, especially the poorest. Many already apply progressive tariffs, or in instalments, and modulate the price of water. In addition to national and international law, there are also mechanisms such as the water check or the help of the communal centres for social action – CCIS. Yes, we share your ambition to do better to make water service costs more equitable and consistent with its universal right and need. But it is not a new text that we need. We need to organize ourselves so that people in difficulty have access to the essential services of housing, water and energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u144	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u145	That is the objective of the Government and of our parliamentary majority. Together, we are working to put public action in the long term, to implement, in the field of water, as in others, our collective commitments, respecting human rights. Water must become a major national cause. That is what the President of the Republic has proposed, and that is why water bases will be launched this year. I trust him and, pending that, I will vote on this motion to reject him beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u146	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u147	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, let us recall that the proclamation of a right to water has been the result of numerous intergovernmental declarations since 1977 with the UN conference in Mar del Plata; that the right to water has been part of positive international law since 2002 with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; that several countries recognize this right to water in their constitutions – African countries, such as Senegal and South Africa, as well as Slovenia and South American countries. In France, since the law of 3 January 1992, water has become part of the nation's common heritage, and the 2005 Constitutional Charter, through the right to the environment, implicitly recognizes a right to water. Should we go further and include this right in the Constitution? This debate, in any case, must take place, and I thank you for opening it today. However, it is probably not at the turn of a bill, as you are proposing today, but at the time of the forthcoming constitutional review, that this issue can be resolved. In our view, we cannot amend the Environmental Charter without bringing together all those who have worked on this fundamental issue, without questioning other rights and without asking ourselves the major question of the inclusion of climate in the Charter. A decisive legislative step was taken in 2006 with the LEMA Act, which was recalled. This is the transposition of a European Water Framework Directive of October 2000, which states that "in the framework of laws and regulations... the use of water belongs to all". The problem before us is, therefore, to translate the provisions of the LEMA Act into legislation and regulations. We need to invent the practical modalities of an effective right to drinking water. In our view, it is therefore important that we have a new law on water, which answers all the questions you have raised. Among the questions that arise is that of periods of shortage, because we will know of them. The single article in your bill rightly speaks of a priority to any other use. Let us define these priorities in the law. It is also necessary to introduce a provision, according to which everyone has an obligation to contribute to the financing of water supply and sanitation costs; add that where distribution systems are not accessible, residents must have a source of drinking water at an affordable price; provide for a provision on tariffs, a price of water fixed in such a way as to ensure the sustainability of the water service; protect public health and the environment; ensure that the price of water is not an obstacle to consumption for the most precarious among us; Finally, install free funnels throughout the national soil and introduce the free of charge of the first volumes of water. This was the purpose of the bill that was introduced in 2013 by Messrs. Jean Glavany and Jean-Paul Chanteguet and Marie-George Buffet. Supported by more than thirty associations and five political parties, reported by Michel Lesage, this text, which organised the right to water, did not survive its examination in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u148	Yet you were the majority at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u149	It should be noted that the bottled water lobby and the strong opposition of senators were right in this bill, a priori consensual. The present bill is a timely reminder of the urgency of having practical arrangements for the exercise of a right of which no one challenges the fundamental character. Let us not waste any time translating into action our commitments to sustainable development and solidarity in favour of the right to drinking water. As a result of what has just been said, the New Left Group regrets that a motion has been tabled on this text to reject it beforehand, because we must not obstruct a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u151	A motion to refer the matter back to committee would have been preferable, as it would have allowed for an in-depth debate on this major issue. Thank you again, Mr rapporteur, for opening this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u152	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u153	The rapporteur, Mr Bastien Lachaud, I would like to thank you and the members of the La France group, who have not submitted this proposal for a constitutional law, aimed at making access to water an inalienable right. This text, together with its particularly detailed explanatory memorandum, highlights the importance of ensuring the effectiveness of a non-discriminatory right to water. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes this initiative and obviously shares the idea that everyone should be able to access the amount of water needed to preserve their dignity. Having said that, the manner in which this right is applied in the proposed law does not imply our support, and it seems to us to be in contradiction with the aims sought and the great ideals defended by La France insoumise. First, the text before us aims to introduce free of charge the first cubic metres of water consumed. We are not convinced that this is the best method, on the one hand, to allow access to water for all and, on the other hand, to ensure the preservation of the water resource.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u154	Long live the deal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u155	Access to water in quantity and quality depends on a service provided and therefore has a cost. It should not be neglected and distributed as fairly as possible – we agree on this and I believe that this is the main issue in our relationship to water. To introduce the free supply of a certain amount of water would be to break with the principle that has been at the heart of our water policy for decades, which the minister recalled, the principle that water pays for water. Moreover, while all our fellow citizens must have access to safe drinking water, it is also essential that they be aware of the importance of saving this precious commodity, which is indeed a common good of humanity, at the same time as an inalienable public good. It therefore seems to us essential to combat water losses, which are still too frequent. Indeed, according to INSEE, every day two in three Frenchmen would still let the water flow, in a situation where it could be avoided.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u156	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u157	Water is precious here, it is precious everywhere. Therefore, we are of the opinion that water must be billed, even minimally, and that its price must be acceptable to all, in accordance with article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code. It has already been recalled that the average price per cubic metre of drinking water, including sanitation, is EUR 3.98, which is, on average, EUR 1 per day and per household. This tariff does not seem excessive to us...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u158	When you can afford it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u159	... especially since there are mechanisms to provide access to drinking water for the poorest people. Listen to me until the end, rather than insult me! Today – you seem to be unaware of this – the communal centres of social action and the managers of the solidarity funds for housing are, in fact, liable to cover, partly or totally, the water bills of people in debt or in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u160	Susceptible! It's all said! They still have to be able to afford it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u161	In this context, we are in favour of maintaining a price of water in France, which would allow us, not only to take responsibility here, but also – and you seem to forget it – to open up development prospects for future generations, and beyond our borders. That is the main contradiction of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u162	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u163	Access to water remains very unequal at the international level...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u164	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u165	... as 30 per cent of the world's population does not have a domestic drinking water supply service and 263 million people have to travel for at least 30 minutes to reach a water point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u166	You didn't listen to our arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u167	Yes, yes, I listened very well and read very well. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law recalls that several international conventions, including the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, recognize the right to water as a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u168	Unlike you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u169	In addition, we must mobilize to promote the sustainable development goals that the United Nations hopes to achieve by 2030. The sixth objective is to achieve universal and equitable access to safe drinking water at an affordable cost. France, as a party to these agreements, has a responsibility and must act for the effectiveness of the right to drinking water for all, everywhere and always.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u170	How do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u171	There is a system in France, which is not used enough to my taste, the Oudin-Santini law of 9 February 2005, which allows water distributors to allocate up to 1% of their budget to actions of cooperation and international solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u172	Christian charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u173	No, it's not Christian charity, it's called decentralized cooperation! In ten years, EUR 150 million have been raised through this mechanism, and we believe it is crucial to encourage these initiatives. However, to introduce the absolute gratuity, advocated by this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u174	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u175	... would reduce the resources of water distributors and thus potentially their capacity to finance international cooperation projects. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is not in favour of the absolute gratuity of a quantity of water deemed necessary for the preservation of dignity. However, we are prepared, as we have said in committee, to continue to reflect on the relevance of introducing progressive prices of water beyond a certain quantity consumed, which should be clearly determined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u176	That's exactly what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u177	However, such a proposal, before being discussed, should be subject to an impact assessment. Secondly, the proposed law introduces the obligation to manage water supply and sanitation in a regulated manner. Currently, the right to water is implemented by local authorities, who remain responsible for this public service, even when they opt for a public service delegation. Preventing communities from resorting to delegated management would directly contradict the principle of their free administration. Thirdly, and in any event, a constitutional law does not seem to us to be the appropriate legal tool to set out the modalities for the implementation of the right to drinking water. This right already enjoys constitutional protection as a component of the right to decent housing, recognized as an objective of constitutional value. It is then clarified by many pieces of legislation and regulations that give it a certain effectiveness. Thus, this was recalled, the Brottes Act now prohibits suppliers from making water cuts in the event of an unpaid invoice, and a decision of the Constitutional Council, dated 29 May 2015, validated these provisions. We must now give the utmost vigilance to the effective implementation of this right to water. In this context, the adoption of a constitutional law does not seem useful. The Modem and related groups will therefore not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u178	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u179	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a life after oil, but there will be no life after water. This is a reality that no one disputes. Like you, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me essential to share equitably, to respect, but also to protect the water resource. While the approach of the group La France insoumée may seem interesting, the group IUD, Agir et indépendants will not support this proposal for a constitutional law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u180	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u181	What a disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u182	Indeed, after a thorough examination, the text appears to be unconvincing, as its shortcomings are manifest both in substance and in form. On the substance, first, the Water and Aquatic Environments Act, adopted on 30 December 2006, enshrined the right of everyone to access drinking water under "economically acceptable conditions". Then, the United Nations confirmed the official recognition of this right in 2010, while in the world, more than 850 million people do not have access to a safe water resource, 3 billion do not have a water tap at home and 2 and a half billion do not have a basic sanitation service that would protect them from water diseases. The consideration of the individual right to water is an obligation for public authorities to progressively organize access to water for their people and to incorporate this right into their legislation. In France, the challenge is no longer to guarantee access to the service because today almost 99% of the population is served there. On average, the water and sanitation bill accounts for less than 1 per cent of household expenditure. We are in the European Union's low average. The real subject is that of the poorest households, who have difficulty paying their water bills, and of the effectiveness of the right to water for people who are not connected to the network. I am thinking of homeless people, members of the Traveller community, squatters and migrants. In France, almost a million people are expected to receive aid, either because of social pricing or because they are not connected to the networks – today, in our country, nearly 140,000 homeless people do not have access to water. However, the number of people assisted is estimated to be only 200000. It is these unacceptable figures that we must remember, because they reflect the inadequacy of the many mechanisms in place. The logic of the application of human rights must lead us to address this population as a matter of priority. That is the whole point of today's debate, and that is why I regret that a rejection motion has been tabled because the very principle of these niches is to allow us to debate key issues. A motion to refer to committee would have been preferable. With regard to homeless persons or persons living without a permit in housing that is not connected to water, it is up to the local authorities to meet their needs. Public fountains, public toilets, public showers, which are truly accessible, must be installed. There are European means for this. For households whose housing is connected to a public network, the water bill must not exceed 3% of their income. This ratio has been set by the OECD, which considers that, beyond this part of the family budget, water is too heavy and needs to be mitigated. However, it is clear that the principle that "water pays for water" must be maintained to avoid waste, which does not mean that everyone has to pay for the same thing. Many of us have recalled, following the rapporteur, or even the minister, that the Brottes Act of 2013 allows progressive pricing. About 50 communities are currently experimenting with it. To chair the CQPQEA – Advisory Committee on the Quality and Price of Water and Sanitation Utilities – which initiated this experiment, I regret that only fifty communities responded positively to the initiative. The first progress report is currently being prepared and we will soon be able to assess the value of this progressive pricing, provided for by the Brottes Act. We must, of course, ensure the economic balance of the service. The quasi-free nature of the first tranche affects other consumers, particularly the larger ones, with the real risk that manufacturers will disconnect from the public network to the benefit of autonomous installations and to the detriment of the economic balance of the public service. The stakes are real. On the other hand, let us not confuse progressive pricing with social pricing. The first one benefits all subscribers, regardless of their income. The second is for people who have difficulty paying. It is towards these populations that we must direct our actions, which means knowing very precisely the social situation of the subscribers to the service. It is far from obvious today, but it is an indispensable prerequisite. For example, it is at the local level that communities identify people in difficulty through appropriate statistical tools. Personal assistance to these people has the merit of targeting the populations concerned. These include aid from the Fonds solidarité pour le logement – FSL – which has not fully or satisfactorily responded to the precarious access to water: almost a quarter of the departments are not yet equipped with FSL competence and have not yet reached an agreement with the operators. Let us also mention the water check, which is very effective in helping people in precarious situations over a short period of time. So let's trust existing communities and structures. Let's support them. The communal centres for social action are empowered to manage these difficulties and to make a service of proximity, for a local problem, with further follow-up. Finally, at Community level, there is a European aid programme for the poorest – PEAD – linked to the European Social Fund – ESF. We could examine, and this is an added value that the Government could bring, how to mobilize these tools to abound the investments made and the means granted by communities and operators for social access to water. For example, the washrooms or public showers I mentioned earlier could be funded by the DAAP. The sustainability of water services in France requires addressing both the economic issue at a time when the renewal of an ageing heritage is needed, the environmental problem with the European directive on the recovery of water quality and aquatic environments, the issue of public health with the emergence of micropollutants and the social imperative of the right to water for all. The problem of water is much more global than the one found in your text, Mr rapporteur. At the same time, and always on the merits, we would like to draw the attention of our audience to the fact that if water is a right, it is also a duty. This debate on the misuse of water goes beyond the scope of this proposal, but it is important to remember that free water must not lead to the responsibilities of the citizen with regard to the need to save it. A word from the method at last. It seems to us that a constitutional bill is not the most relevant legislative tool. The French Constitution should be reviewed with caution and only on an exceptional basis. In this case, this bill could pave the way for many unnecessary amendments to this founding text. In the same vein, should it not, for example, include the inalienable right of the citizen to access electricity or gas? This principle could be set out in relation to a multitude of rights that are already set out, in the underlying sense, in our Constitution and in our legislative machinery.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u183	Yes, that's exactly what should be done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u184	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] For all these reasons, the IUD Group, Action and Independents will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u185	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u186	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of water supply and access to drinking water is still a topical issue. We discussed it again on Tuesday evening in this House: proof that it remains a major social issue. Everyone is concerned that all men and women in this country will have access to quality water, both at low prices and in a safe manner. The issue of access to water remains a major concern, as demonstrated in my constituency by the number of meetings I have had with my fellow citizens on this subject. Moreover, the question is not so much about the price of water, everyone now agrees that it has a cost, but about the increasing difficulties that are encountered, particularly in public cash, in recovering the payment of water bills from certain users. The phenomenon is increasing, both in number of cases and in budgetary cost. These are new challenges for water managers, whether management is at the municipal or inter-municipal level. They may not have answers to men and women who have difficulty paying their bills. However, water still meets a production requirement – which raises issues that we will have to discuss some day, without delay. Water has a cost, a cost of treatment, a cost of transportation, a cost of distribution. And in relation to this system, there are just as many rules of law that ensure its access. I agree with our colleague Sophie Auconia. Progress still needs to be made in France to combat waste. I deplore this form of indifference which consists of not giving importance to leaks and water losses. Just now, I heard Mr Brigitte Kuster talking about a persistent problem of water leakage on the third floor of this building, despite repeated interventions by the Quaestors. While water is a valuable asset, public authorities and all citizens must mobilize to combat any form of waste. It is equally important to ensure that water is accessible to all. Again, I agree with what was said a moment ago. As much as this debate may be essential, I consider that your proposal for a constitutional law, as it stands, will bring nothing in relation to our legal system. Our rules of law already enshrine the right to water, and I believe that there should be no super-federation law. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, whatever the strength of the message you intend to deliver, the answers to be given will not be possible by your proposed constitutional law. We are therefore not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u187	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u188	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that water is essential for life. Water is also necessary for human dignity – these are the very terms used by La France insoumée. This is something everyone agrees with. But let's not confuse everything. Water has this specificity that it falls free of charge from the sky, certainly unevenly according to the regions – we can see it right now – but also according to the countries. No wonder we don't treat water everywhere the same way. Our water bill does not translate into a raw material cost, since the water is free: we pay for its delivery, for its reprocessing, for the network. The law already recognizes that water is part of our common heritage. I would like to refer you to the article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code, which is very comprehensive and offers great security. Furthermore, the law of 15 April 2013 prohibits public or private distributors from cutting water in the event of unpaid invoices. For these reasons, your bill has no constitutional basis, especially since the Environmental Charter, which was endorsed by our Constitution in 2005, contains a specific provision on the right to access to water and its free availability. We all feel well, in the drafting of your text, that your intention is not to make a policy for water: I cannot believe that you have not realized that everything is already provided for in our legislation so that no one in France, poor or rich, is deprived of access to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u189	That's the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u190	The facts are stubborn!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u191	The unique article – solitary, but not solidary! – Your bill is intentionally made up of two parts. As far as its first part is concerned, the legislative arsenal already exists and protects us all, I said, but you want on this subject of water to make mediocre policy, that which forgets to serve the citizen. That's not what the French expect from us. You hoped to deceive a reality, and to that end, the last sentence of your bill diverts the sense of common interest. You impose, in an authoritarian way, a certain mode of water management, by removing the possibility for the state or local authorities to choose between the private or the community. You propose that it be the State or the communities alone that bear the burden of transportation, maintenance, investment and reprocessing, on the grounds that this public management will necessarily be less expensive and of better quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u192	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u193	You eliminate all expertise and start from the postulate, simplistic, that everything that is managed by the territory is almost free, better done, and well administered. Yet you know just as we do, in no country does it work properly. Water, its management, its treatment are a serious matter. It's also a matter of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u194	Let's leave her alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u195	Never forget, ladies and gentlemen of France, that we, as citizens, love that laws regulate choices...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u196	That's what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u197	...but not that they impose them on us! However, your bill would impose certain choices. That is why I will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u198	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u199	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a proposal for a constitutional law on a topic particularly present in the lives of our territories and their inhabitants: water management. This is the second time this week that we are considering a text on the subject. We are proposed to include in the Constitution, through an amendment to the Charter of the Environment, the "fundamental and inalienable right to access, free of charge, to the quantity of drinking water essential for life and dignity". It is obviously not a question of challenging the objective of access to water, which we all share. The question is, on the other hand, whether the mechanism proposed to us is necessary and whether it is best able to achieve the objective thus set. Can a constitutional law on such a central theme be really operational? The first question to be asked is the relevance of an amendment to the Environmental Charter through a constitutional bill. Any changes to our fundamental law must be made with the utmost caution. Our Constitution, the supreme legal norm of the Republic, which lays down a framework and fundamental principles, naturally calls for special vigilance and a requirement, when it is proposed to amend it. It is precisely this vigilance and this requirement that must be put into practice today, within the framework of the text before us. The Constitution establishes a general framework. It is not an operational text. All the rules for the application of the rights which it lays down must then be laid down in more specific standards and texts. Does the right of access to water referred to in the proposed constitutional law fall within the scope of the Constitution or is it more operational? In this regard, it should be noted that a more operational text already exists, since article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code, as amended by the Act of 30 December 2006 on water and aquatic environments, already enshrines a right to water. Indeed, the law contains the following perfectly clear and intelligible provision: "Water is part of the nation's common heritage. Its protection, its development and the development of the usable resource, while respecting natural balances, are of general interest. Within the framework of laws and regulations as well as previously established rights, the use of water belongs to all and every natural person, for his or her food and hygiene, has the right to access drinking water under conditions economically acceptable to all." Since the right of access to water is already enshrined in our law, it does not seem necessary to constitutionalize it. The law is already often poorly written: it is our responsibility to avoid super-fetative texts. Therefore, the necessary caution due to the exceptional nature of a constitutional amendment should lead to the rejection of this constitutional bill. Beyond the inclusion in the Constitution of a right of access to water, you also want the means of access to water to be defined in the Basic Law. You state: "The supply of drinking water to the inhabitants, and its sanitation, are provided exclusively by the State or local authorities, directly and in a non-profit way". I repeat, our Constitution does not seem to us to be the right text to define how drinking water supply and sanitation must be managed by the communities that have responsibility for it. The free water that you propose to include in the Constitution does not seem to us to be part of the constitutional block either. While the debate on the introduction of progressive water pricing can be opened, the question of the relevance of the chosen legislative vehicle should also be raised. The Constitution can be amended – we are obviously not opposed to it in principle – but only specific conditions, which this text does not fulfil, can lead to. In addition, the text of your bill leads us to ask ourselves a second question: is the state necessarily the best manager in the area of drinking water and sanitation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u201	You answer in the affirmative. It's a questionable assumption. Allow me to introduce some nuance in this respect and to defend the idea that the existence of a single type of organisation for the distribution of water is not always in favour of the user. As you know, communities can now, as part of these missions, choose to make a public service delegation – DSP. By your bill, you simply want to remove the possibility of using such a delegation, since it is explicitly stated that the supply of drinking water and sanitation "are provided exclusively by the State or local authorities...". However, a DSP in this area can produce positive results for the user. You can easily find examples in all electoral districts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u202	Where? That's not the case in mine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u203	Why sweep the possibility of using a DSP from a back end, if the community, free and responsible, considers it to be the best offer for its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u204	That's not the best offer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u205	The confidence that can be given, in this context, to private structures does not, of course, prevent the control by the communities of delegated missions. The delegation of a public service to a private partner without control by the public operator can sometimes lead to drifts. It's a reality. Should we, however, prevent any delegation of public service?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u206	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u207	No, certainly not. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the communities to monitor the performance of the public service missions they have delegated. In essence, the Republican Group's conviction is that we are defending the freedom of communities to determine how to manage the water supply that is best suited to them, with the possibility of using a public service delegation or not. We believe in the freedom to organize distribution networks. Why exclude private operators a priori, their ability to offer less expensive answers than public authorities, and the expertise they have acquired in the technical management of water? In fact, your bill contains both an obligation of result and an obligation of means, which would put an end to the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u208	In this area, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u209	Only one of these two obligations – one or the other – still guarantees respect for the principle of free administration, but the conjugation of the two would lead to the end of a local freedom. In the end, this text, as well as the proposal for a law on the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes, which was discussed on Tuesday evening in a public meeting, calls into question our vision of decentralization and our understanding of the relationship between the state and communities. Just like Tuesday night, we are defending the granting of greater freedom to communities. Our territories are rich in their differences. The same arrangements for the organisation of water management, which are uniform throughout the national territory, cannot produce the same effects everywhere, and there will necessarily be effects in places contrary to the objectives. Let us leave to communities, who know better than anyone what is good for them, the freedom to determine which organization is best for them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That's our philosophy. Unfortunately, this text is not in line with that spirit. In view of this, the Republican Group is not in favour of the adoption of this constitutional bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u210	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u211	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, at this moment, to thank our colleagues in the La France Insoumise Group for bringing to the agenda of our House this issue of the inalienable right of access to water, which I was almost going to say is vital. With them, many of us share the conviction that unconditional access to water must be a right recognized by the French Constitution as a fundamental human right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u212	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u213	I will not go back to France's international commitments in this area, but would like to share my experience of being elected from the ground to make a number of remarks. We are well in 2018, in France, and more precisely on the archipelago of Guadeloupe. On this earth, water is present in incredible quantity, falls in abundance from the sky, runs and feeds our rich rivers, but paradoxically, and I was going to say cruelly, it no longer flows to the tap among our compatriots. To give you a good picture of the crisis of magnitude experienced by our compatriots in Guadeloupe, I would like to describe the situation that many of them face on a daily basis: water cuts are prolonged, intempestuous and random; The exasperation and the D system have now left room for anger. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of shortcomings, sometimes political, in the management of the public water service. Attemptism and irresponsibility of the public authorities – I believe I am not aiming at anyone – have unfortunately led Guadeloupe to the impasse. The pipelines are real sieves, so much so that more than 50% of production is lost. This figure is almost 80% on some old and unmaintained supply networks. In total, nearly 7 million cubic metres are lost in nature when, at the same time, the Guadeloupeans have to suffer from water cuts. Of course, the problem is particularly complex. Of course it is no longer time to look for the possible culprits or accomplices of this situation – it is really at work. But if I tell you these facts, ladies and gentlemen, it is to show you that if I agree with the intention behind this bill and if I understand its symbolic significance, I cannot be content with the fact that it is merely a fine declaration of principle. By including a right to water in the Environment Charter, we are entitled to free access to drinking water without guaranteeing its practical application. However, to take the example of Guadeloupe, how can we guarantee this access to water? I tell you frankly, this right will only apply once the investments have been made by the public authorities to repair the networks and production and distribution have been reorganized. In Guadeloupe, the total cost of the work to be carried out was estimated at EUR 950 million: some 600 million for water and 300 million for sanitation. I therefore take this rostrum not only to support this text, but above all to assure the State that it can no longer resort to the dilatory process of returning elected officials, companies and users back to back in Guadeloupe. This appeal also applies to the entire French territory. In view of the ageing and sometimes rotting infrastructure, as well as the rising price of access to this essential resource, I believe that the State has a strong obligation to finance and implement, in conjunction with local authorities or water managers, a massive investment plan for water and sanitation. If, of course, we can consider that water is a common good of humanity, that we have the responsibility, on behalf of present and future generations, not to waste it or to pollute it, and that its preservation is a matter of dignity and humanism, yet water has a price, which partly reflects its cost of production, clean-up, transport and distribution. This is the second flat that I would like to put to this text, of course of which I support the intention, despite these few comments from local experience. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] I would like once again to thank our rapporteur, and with him all the members of his group, for this initiative, which will enable us to better understand the Government's ambition on this subject, on the eve of the launch of the water foundations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u214	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u215	This bill by our colleagues in the La France group, designed to include the right of access to water in the Constitution, raises a fundamental question for our societies. It is to the credit of this group that they proposed this text as part of their own-initiative parliamentary day. The right of access to water, all of us are in favour of it. How could we oppose it? Water, whether in terms of access, quality or management, is a major issue for our economy, agriculture and land use planning, as well as for the maintenance of our populations, especially in the mountains and in hyper-rural environments. In these areas, the stakes are vital. I can guarantee it to you as a former mayor of a mountain commune and which is more of an island in the middle of the Mediterranean, an island that has the particularism of being well watered in relation to the neighbouring islands – a mountain in the sea. Corsica receives an average of 8 billion cubic metres of water per year. After infiltration and evaporation, 4 billion remain. However, we have only 100 million of them, because – I will not dwell on the subject – of the state's wanderings and the mismanagement of previous territorial majorities, which have not anticipated by building infrastructure worthy of this name. The new territorial majority is trying to make up for this delay by relaunching the investment, thanks to a plan called "Acqua nostra 2050": construction of new water reservoirs, better yield, transfer of water from one micro-region to another, European cooperation are points that have already raised for other territories. This plan is essential. Like many territories, we have to deal with climate change – as has already been pointed out – in periods of recurrent drought or fires as well as heavy and sudden rainfall. These phenomena are no longer cyclical, but structural. To these natural phenomena we must add an intense tourist activity, which triples the population. Let me remind you that 31% of world tourism is concentrated in the Mediterranean. In Corsica, the pressure is very strong: there are ten tourists for one inhabitant – more than in the Balearic Islands. My colleagues in the tourist territories know what I'm talking about! Access to water is a fundamental right for all, which you must preserve and which you intend to defend, with force, through this text. However, we cannot stop at the affirmation of this principle. We need to review our consumption patterns, hunt for waste and re-educate people and professionals. We must, especially in case of increased drought, rebalance those who fill their pools for pleasure – I force the line! – and those who cannot use water for their domestic or agricultural use. While local and regional authorities generally address all these problems in a pragmatic and responsible manner, they must have the means to continue to do so. Indeed, in our view, water is a common good not only at the political level, but also and especially at the cultural level. I would even say that water and land – land – must be regarded as common goods, which cannot therefore be regarded as goods like others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u217	The regulation and public control of water management, while respecting the general interest and the territories, and the resorption of social and territorial divides are principles that must be reaffirmed and translated into reality: we agree. Similarly, the historical, human, carnal relationship between people and this resource, necessary for life and development, must lead us to the strengthening of local territorial governance. That is why, given the political, economic and social stakes of water, we thank again the group of France for putting this topic on the table. However, should we go so far as to include the right of access to water in the Constitution? In principle, we are in favour of this. On the modalities, if the intention of our unsubstantiated colleagues is entirely commendable, we, like others, question their proposal for absolute free water. Water management has a cost to communities or structures that flow from it, such as mixed-economy companies, because water requires heavy investment and has a natural operating cost – nobody denies it. Through the free system, you ask more general questions about the right access to the resource and the empowerment of individuals and communities in the face of water scarcity, especially climate change. Personally, we believe that paying for water can and should make it possible to empower users. It can be deplored philosophically, but water is too valuable and too scarce for the issue of awareness, which I have mentioned, not to be considered important. Freedom could also corroborate an injustice by absurdity: the most affluent, who have important housing and land space, would not pay for it either! The subject is therefore complex. Should we, on the other hand, make the price of water fairer? Of course. Is there a need to ensure a certain degree of equity, and why not create a stronger form of equalization between territories where water is more expensive, because it is more difficult to treat, and those where water is cheaper for various hydrological reasons, even between housing types, main and secondary residences, as well as between upstream and downstream basins? The substantive debate should focus on these issues. We are also among those who believe that the management of water resources must remain, indisputably, within the realm of communities or public structures, as close as possible to the people. I repeat, we support the inclusion of the principle of the right of access to water in the Constitution. If, for all the reasons I have mentioned, absolute gratuity seems to us to be inapplicable or even contradictory to the objective sought, we shall vote in principle against the motion for a preliminary rejection so that the bill can be considered in substance and because, I repeat, we are in favour of the inclusion of the right of access to water in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u218	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u219	"Water is essential to life. It is indispensable to human dignity. His unconditional access must be a right." Thus begins the explanatory statement of the proposed constitutional law to make access to water an inalienable right, and it is difficult not to join you on this principle. Because we can't be for or against access to water!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u220	That's good already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u221	Because of my involvement in society, in India, with members of the caste des intouchables, I walked alongside women, young girls and children who have to travel miles, every day, under a sun of lead, to get water from the nearest well, a vital water and yet systematically unsanitary. Yes, for having lived this experience, I appreciate "the importance of equitable access to safe and clean drinking water and sanitation services", this fundamental human right defined in these terms by the UN General Assembly resolution of 28 July 2010, which France adopted. However, I do not adhere to the conditions laid down in the proposed text. This proposal for a constitutional law is based on the fact that French law is insufficient to guarantee everyone's access to water and that it is therefore necessary to include this right in the constitutionality block in order to guarantee its effectiveness. Nothing is less obvious. On the form, already, the chosen legislative vehicle, as has already been said, is not in my opinion the right one. It is not by endorsing a principle of the Constitution, in particular by including it in the Charter of the Environment, that we will in practice create more rights for our fellow citizens – rights that are already guaranteed by our body of legislation. On the bottom, now: historically, in France, drinking water flowed freely into fountains and washhouses in towns and villages. In Paris, the first Wallace fountain was laid in 1872, on the boulevard de la Villette, to provide freer access to drinking water. The Parisians now have 1200 water points, more than 400 public toilets and more than 18 bath-douchs. The establishment of such infrastructure is the responsibility of the communities and not the grantor. In recent years, the right to water has been formalized in several texts. This right recognized as an objective of constitutional value, deriving from the right to decent housing, is thus guaranteed by the Brottes Act, which prohibits water cuts due to unpaid invoices, and by article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code, which states that "the use of water belongs to all" and that "each natural person, for his or her food and hygiene, has the right to access drinking water under conditions that are economically acceptable to all". You also point out, in your report, the figures of the World Health Organization: in the world, 3.5 billion people drink unsafe or dubious water, 2.4 billion lack adequate sanitation and 6 million, including 2 million children, die every year from the consequences of unsafe water and lack of sanitation. It must be acknowledged that this dramatic situation is likely to worsen further as a result of the intensification of major climatic phenomena, such as droughts or floods, which cause contamination of surface waters and lead to increased use of groundwater, especially since the effects of climate change on water resources will be further exacerbated by other global causes of change, including population growth, urbanization and land-use change. However, at the national level, if we are to be concerned about the neglect of drinking water, access to the resource is guaranteed at the moment, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Above all, it should be preserved, in order to share it better. If we want to move towards greater equity in access to the resource – and I believe we all want it – perhaps it would be wise to wait for the return of the experiment that is being conducted on social pricing of water, within the framework of the Brottes Act. This experiment, which gives local authorities or their groups the opportunity to set up a "social water pricing" or financial support for the payment of water bills, will identify appropriate solutions for different communities and assess their impact and management costs. The most relevant can then be generalized throughout the country. They will certainly be debated at the water assemblages next March. Finally, you want to require that water supply and sanitation be provided exclusively by the state or communities under direct control: on this point, it seems to me that we must preserve the free choice of local authorities. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Therefore, if I join you in the principle of a human and universal right to water, I also believe that we must respond to the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. For the reasons I have mentioned, I will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u222	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u223	Mr. Adrien Morenas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u224	Of course, we are all in favour of everyone's access to the water resource. This idea is generous and no one can dispute it. However, the proposal we are debating goes much further and involves a major constitutional innovation. No article of the Constitution provides for the management of a public service, since this matter falls within the scope of the law within the meaning of article 34 of the Constitution. Today, there is nothing in the law that prevents a local community from providing a certain amount of water to its population. But let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with the principle of responsibility, this measure must be financed by taxation. Therefore, should we make chatty laws and integrate them into the constitutional bloc?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u225	Bavardes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u226	Six lines, do you think it's talkative?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u227	The answer is no. The bill we are considering is unnecessary. Indeed, the right to water is already affirmed by international conventions ratified by France, and thus of a hierarchical value higher than that of our Constitution. For example, on 28 July 2010, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution entitled "The human right to water and sanitation", in which it recognized the importance of equitable access to safe drinking water and sanitation as an integral part of the realization of all human rights. On 1 January 2016 the 17 goals of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, adopted by world leaders in September 2015 at a UN summit, came into force. Goal 6 of this package aims to ensure universal access to water and sanitation and to ensure sustainable management of water resources. The same applies to European law: to mention only the main texts, Directive 2000/ 60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for a Community policy in the field of water, adopted on 23 October 2000, lays down in Article 1e this fundamental right to water. It is true that these European texts do not take up the solution adopted by Slovenia, the first country in the European Union to include in its Constitution, in November 2016, a right to unprivatised drinking water. In particular, the Constitution provides that the supply of water to the population is provided by the State through local authorities, directly and in a non-profit manner, and that water resources are primarily intended to ensure the sustainable supply of drinking water to the population and are not, as such, a commodity. It is in practice this provision that we are asked to take up in this House today, by demonizing the use of private management, which is perceived as inherently bad. I fear that on this point we will fall into dogmatism. I will mention just one example: in the framework of the parliamentary fact-finding mission on the water resource which I chair and of which I will be co-rapporteur, I will go to Ireland, where the people enjoy free water, although the network is largely managed by a private company, a subsidiary of a large French group, and where the right to water is perfectly guaranteed! This one example perfectly illustrates the main criticism that can be made of this bill: it mixes the question of the cost of water to the consumer, which must be as low as possible, and that of the method of management, which is completely independent of the price charged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u228	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u229	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] To return to France, the implementation of the principle of access to water for all is ensured by several texts, which must undoubtedly be improved: my mission will make proposals to this effect that do not fall within the constitutional level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u230	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u231	No need, no need, no need... This is in a way the leitmotif of the interventions we have just heard on this text. I regret this because while it is true, as I said in my report, that the right to water is mentioned in various laws, it is not actually effective. To say that the existing right is sufficient is therefore an error. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the FI group]] I will not answer the arguments of those who have made themselves here the spokespersons for Suez, Veolia and SAUR, and who have had to respond to the phone calls of their lobbyists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u233	For my part, I preferred to refuse to talk to them. Others have made intellectually defensible arguments. This is the case with waste. I would point out, however, that the free price we are proposing is not absolute, but relative to the cubic metres necessary for life and dignity, and that the price of water must, of course, be progressive. Water does not have the same use or interest when it comes to life and when it comes to making profits or filling your pool. Moreover, it is the biggest consumers who pay for the cheapest water and waste the most! Today, 50% of the water resource is wasted in the production of electricity outside dams, i.e. in nuclear power plants. Again with regard to waste, I would point out that the less well-maintained networks are those which are the subject of a public service delegation managed by large companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u234	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u235	No, it's true! You also tell us that the law guarantees water to all. That's not true, because the Brottes Law does not prohibit the reduction of the flow. How do we do it when the water flows drop by drop from the faucet?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u236	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u237	No! The flow reduction still applies. Moreover, the Brottes Act is not respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u238	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u239	In this way, I can quote 2500 cases of water cutbacks by companies. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Today, we pay more for water when we consume very little than when we consume a lot, because of the fixed share. Madam Minister, I am sorry to have to tell you, but when you want to do the calculation, it is not only necessary to multiply the price by the number of cubic meters, you have to integrate the fixed part! Mr Balanant, it is very much your honour to want France to provide aid for development and access to water in the world. You have, however, voted, with your majority as a whole, for a development aid budget that is down by several million for this year. It's in contradiction with these principles! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] As for the argument of free administration, let us be serious! Free administration has constitutional value, but if we decide, the right to water and its public management will also have that value, and no constitutional value is more important than any other. It's up to us to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u240	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République en route a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u241	[[Smile]] We want to drown the debate! To flood us with false arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u242	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after all these statements, it will be difficult for me not to repeat more or less what has been said by one or the other. However, I will try to do so and try not to dwell on texts that you have already had to know about during the debate, today or at the meeting of the Committee on Laws last week. First, when the law already permits or prevents, why want to force more? Everyone here and elsewhere is obviously in favour of an inalienable right to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u243	Except for the members of Veolia's ridings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u244	We can see clearly the ravages that have been caused and unfortunately still cause drought or water unfit for consumption in developing countries, as well as the distress of our fellow citizens when an accident or unexpected event temporarily deprives them of access to drinking water. As a wink at another debate held a few days ago, it may prove to us, if necessary, the necessity, if not vital, of the solidarity embodied by the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI. The right to clean water has been a fundamental right recognized by international norms and treaties for some 20 years. I will recall a few dates, which you all have in mind: in 2000, the General Assembly of the United Nations defined the right to clean water as a fundamental human right. Two years later, this right was enshrined in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The same applies to sanitation since 2010, another United Nations resolution making the right to safe and clean drinking water a "fundamental right, essential to the full enjoyment of the right to life and all human rights". » Our right to water is therefore already enshrined in these international texts, which guarantee us access to drinking water because of their superiority in the hierarchy of norms. The explanatory memorandum to your bill, Mr Lachaud, presents it very well, and I welcome it again here, as I have already had the opportunity to do in our work in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, your very clear and very didactic work. In domestic law, too, we are well endowed with the constitutionality block, which contains the right to decent housing, which includes access to water and energy. On the one hand, the Preamble to the 1946 Constitution contains the right of the individual and his or her family to enjoy the conditions necessary for their development and the right to material security. On the other hand, the 2005 Environmental Charter proclaims the right to live in a balanced and healthy environment. As a result, water laws already derive their authority from the principles of constitutionality. To give them a higher legal basis and explicitly anchor them at the highest level of the hierarchy of norms would be redundant and would not enhance their effectiveness. So I can only repeat to you the position we took last week: all the existing devices must be applied in their letter as well as in their spirit. There's no need to add any more. The bad will, real or supposed, of some operators will not change anything. However, you are absolutely right to point out that it is essential to strengthen the application of these laws. Thus, the law of 15 April 2013, known as the Brottes Act, which prohibits inter alia water cuts in principal residences in the event of unpaid payments, remains the law of the Republic and must be applied in all its authority. The same law also provides for the possibility for local public services to carry out experiments on social pricing of water. Some municipalities and communities do not take away from them, and they can only be encouraged to do so. The text proposed today will not change any of this: it is therefore an inadequate legislative vehicle. The international texts, the law of our country and our regulations are operating in their respective fields and have found variations in the lower standards that were appropriate. In our view, there is no need to be more distracted. This legislative instrument is even less appropriate when it comes to imposing on local and regional authorities or the State the power to exercise direct control over water and sanitation. While it is true that the right to water cannot cause debate between us or among the population – the question of its level of inclusion in the hierarchy of norms aside – it is equally true that the obligation of direct governance takes us to another form of society. It is not acceptable to mix things up and to maintain the confusion between the principle of an inalienable right to water and that of a state-owned or even authoritarian society. In the end, if we consider this constitutional bill as a whole, as a coherent whole – it is presented as such, and it is – we can only reject it as a whole. In terms of generous aspects that no one could dispute, this text, with its constitutional character, provides in fact for serious treatment of the rights of local and regional authorities, protected by article 72 of the Constitution. If we follow you, we would trample on the free administration of the communities or force the state to finance this new constraint, even if we organized a national water authority. Therefore, it is no longer water that would pay for water, but tax. That's not our plan. For us, freedom is the ability given to everyone to exercise his or her free will, and therefore his or her free choice. The debate on this proposal for a constitutional law, aimed only at introducing a principle already widely laid down and defended, took place first in the Committee on Laws and then in this House. Water does pose vital questions, and we would seriously settle them in two discussions, with a six-line article?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u245	The discussion, you want to stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u246	Instead, I urge you to participate in the water floor: your constructive interventions may also be positive. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues in the La République en marche group, Danielle Brulebois, Frédérique Tuffnell, Pierre Cabaré and Adrien Morenas, for our discussions on this text. I also welcome the dialogue that we have been able to establish together, representing the various political groups on these benches, during our working sessions in the Committee on Laws and in this House. [[Smile]] I particularly welcome the attention paid to the right to water by the Members of the House of Representatives of France who have been unsolicited. The relevant and impertinent questions that you are asking can only lead us together to continue the debate in other places.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u247	Oh, thank you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u248	There's someone respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u249	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I really think so. We are very open, in La République en marche! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] My colleague Sandrine Le Feur, a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, as well as Adrien Morenas, will give you an explanation of our group's vote on this motion in a few moments. Thank you all very much for your listening and participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u250	For the moment, we'd applaud you. But it would compromise you with your colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u251	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u252	In a few words, and without repeating the various arguments that have been put forward, I would like to point out that this text has its consistency: if we consider that water is a common good, then its access, necessary for life and dignity, must be free. Who else than the public authority to guarantee this access and the preservation of the resource? Some blame us for a six-line text, studied in two sessions, for such a serious subject. But the choice of a constitutional bill guarantees a much broader debate than any other! An amendment of the Constitution by means of this vehicle indeed requires a referendum, and therefore a debate in society as a whole: it is also from this debate that you deprive us of with this motion of rejection beforehand. I will conclude by recalling two facts. First of all, the homeless who die of cold in winter are mentioned daily, but far less those who die in summer, warm and most often dehydration. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, La France insoumise is rather connected with the company, which is not really the trademark of La République en marche: more than 80% of French people are in favour of the free use of the first cubic metre of water!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u253	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor, in the case of the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u254	So much has been said that I will only add an invitation to meditate on ourselves. You have all accepted the idea that water is a common good: I believe that you are all deeply convinced of it. [[Smile]] It is a great idea to discern what a common good is. First, it's the beginning of communism. But it's not his only interest! The other is that we recognize that we have something in common that cannot belong to one of us in particular. The general interest therefore requires collective attention to this common good. To go further, one must understand the water cycle; We haven't talked enough about it. We said earlier that at 2% lack of water, we are thirsty, that at 10% we are delirious – some debates here therefore lack water! (Sighs) – and at 12%, we're dead. But there is more: 60% of the body weight of an adult is made up of water; 75% for an infant! The reality of the whole biosphere is made of water, so that forms respond to each other, and if you are sometimes surprised to see in a cloud such or such other form of life, it is that clouds are made of water, like all forms of life in the biosphere. Water is ultimately the essence of what we are. That is why it cannot be anything other than a common good. In seven weeks, every human being renews all the amount of water he has in the body. This renewal is a vital question: we have no choice! We can choose to deprive ourselves of this or that, to acquire this or that, but we can't get rid of water. That is why this right must be enshrined in the Constitution. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You mentioned the UN: yes, thank you to Mr. Evo Morales for having passed this international law that recognizes water as the common good of all humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u256	It is our turn to include it in the Constitution. This holds in few lines because there is no need to say much. The second question is property. Someone was wrong earlier in saying that we were offering free water, but never life! We are aware of the fact that we must produce it, transport it, save it, do not let it get lost: it costs! But we are against the fact that whoever it is can accumulate a profit, a rent on the water, because it is a without cause enrichment to take what belongs to all to return it to them because they cannot do without it! That is why the common good must remain the common property, and this must be written in the Constitution. It is a matter of moving from commercial and capitalist water pricing to environmentally friendly water pricing, to social pricing that respects people. It is also a question of punishing misuse when it takes place. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Basically, by voting, by agreeing to discuss it, let us be worthy of the fact that we are the occupants of a planet that is said to be blue because it is made of water.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u257	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u258	In all the interventions, each one insisted that water was a common good of humanity. We have been very numerous, on every bench, to stress the importance of equitable access to drinking water for the dignity of each person's life. In France – Mrs Tuffnell also told us about her experience in India – if everyone agrees that water is a common good of humanity and that its equal access is important, it must indeed depend on the Republic. This text proposes to restore to water this character of one of the common goods which the Republic must take over so that it is accessible to everyone and to everyone. You say you do not agree with the content of the article. But we can work on the amendments! Perhaps you could have prepared a motion for referral back to committee, so we could have continued the work in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u259	Hey, yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u260	It was quite interesting, so as to obtain a common construction of the law. There have been cases in this House where a joint construction of the law on major human subjects has been carried out. But no, you're putting forward a motion to reject it beforehand. In short, you tell us that it is over, that there will be no debate. But we're here to debate! As elected parliamentarians of universal suffrage, we must build the law, and in order to build the law, we must debate, not put forward motions of rejection! Moreover, on 8 March the GDR Group will present a series of texts: against forced partial work; for professional equality; a proposal for a law on family carers, supported by many associations; One on the fight against sleep merchants, a real plague in some of our cities; Another one on tax evasion. Will you oppose us every time a motion of rejection? We will not be able to discuss all these issues? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really regret that you are taking this step. Follow the path of debate and you will see that we can find very strong answers, because built together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u261	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u262	We all agree: water is essential to life. Access to water for all is a shared goal. However, the law already recognizes a right of access to water in article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code, which provides that water is part of the nation's common heritage. Within the framework of laws and regulations as well as previously established rights, the use of water belongs to all and every natural person, for his or her food and hygiene, has the right to access drinking water under conditions economically acceptable to all. Since the right of access to water is already effective, there is no need to add a new provision. This article proposes to amend the Environmental Charter, an integral part of the constitutionality block. This would have the effect of giving constitutional value to this right. The sense of priority requires that we do not engage in a long and complex constitutional review to consolidate a right that already exists and would remain limited: this bill does not allow this right to be extended to legal persons. It is also contrary to the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities to compel public authorities competent in the field of drinking water to specific pricing and management. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In addition, it seems premature to draw the conclusions of exchanges and discussions that will take place this year, at the water level, and that will allow working with all stakeholders in the sector and citizens. The La République en marche group will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u263	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u264	The Constitution is the highest legal norm. It lays down a framework and fundamental principles. As such, it should be clear and should remain general in nature. It is up to all the other standards which are subordinated to it to decline it into more precise texts concerning all the arrangements for the application of the rights which it lays down. While laudable, the purpose of the proposed law before us is not a constitutional law, it is linked to the principle of dignity, which is constitutionally valid according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. It is also linked to the sphere of freedoms, which are particularly well protected by the Constitution. The proposed text, which we believe is part of the ordinary law, should therefore be disregarded. We will therefore vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u265	The next speaker is Mr Erwan Balanant, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a debate that I find interesting because it has brought together ideas and brought up a number of points. We've talked a lot about free. This is not the issue of water: the issue is access to water for all. It's a difference of opinion between us. The challenge for our country is to give everyone access to water, in quantity and quality. This issue is not anomalous because water has a treatment cost, a delivery cost and, perhaps, not enough emphasis, a reprocessing cost to return the water consumed to the circuit and to make it drinking again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u267	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u268	The question of the importance of water, its precisity, must be recalled. The debate, we must therefore lead it on the progressivity of the price of water: yes, I think that the first cubic metres should not have the same price as the cubic metres that could...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u269	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u270	But yes, we agree! I believe that this view is shared by everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u271	Then vote the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u272	Except that the problem of freedom, ladies and gentlemen, the deputies of La France unsuspecting,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u273	No! Only on the first liters!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u274	I get it! We all got it! But free, even minimal, even initial, on the first cubic metre poses a problem in that it is not said that water is precious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u275	If you're on the street, how do you pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u276	Water is precious everywhere. Water is precious in Nara, Mali, water is precious in Saint-Louis, Senegal, but also on the hills dear to Pagnol or Brittany! Water is precious everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u277	Who defends the ecological transition? It's us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u278	What we need to do, I think, is to think about what this "common good" of humanity must be – of the terms we share – especially in the framework of the foundations of water. It's also doing pedagogy here, in France, so that people stop wasting water. There's still too much waste. You have raised a number of important issues, but you are not using the right vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u279	Is Parliament not the right one?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u280	The Constitution provides us with certain guarantees on these issues. Let's work! I invite all of you, and I invite the rapporteur, Bastien Lachaud, to work together on this issue. We need to write a real report on access to water for all, in order to help those who do not have the means to do so, but also – an essential reflection that we must carry out – the 263 million inhabitants of this planet who take 30 minutes to reach a point of access to water. The debate was interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u281	Hence the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u282	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and several REM benches]] It is not because a motion of prior rejection was tabled that the debate is closed. I invite you to pursue him with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u283	Sophie Auconia, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u284	As I said earlier, I very much deplore this motion of rejection because the days of parliamentary niches should be an opportunity for us to rise up and debate on important issues. However, Mr rapporteur, I think it is you who are responsible for this motion, with words far removed from the truth, from reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u285	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u286	Ah, the truth, ma'am...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u287	[[Smile]] Finally you drowned the water debate. Seriously, the subject of water is important enough for our communities and our fellow citizens to be properly considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u288	It's coming from the source!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u289	With your proposal to constitutionalize the right to water and with some of your arguments, you have served the cause you want to defend. I very much regret it. Some of your remarks are not justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u290	Oh, it's okay! Your lessons, you can keep them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u291	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and the REM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Mr. Mélenchon, it is not because you are yelling at truths that they become truths!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u292	That majority is so arrogant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u293	When you say, like on the radio this morning, that the French are going to die of thirst, excuse me, but these are anxiogenic statements, as you are accustomed to doing, and which serve debates of major importance such as the one we could have had in this House today. That is very regrettable. I regret that this issue of water has not been discussed at any length. For example, 1.8 billion cubic metres of water, equivalent to Lake Annecy, are wasted each year because some networks are to be changed. That's a subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u294	She's the only one who knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u295	Millions of people who suffer from a problem of access to water, that's a subject! [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and a few benches of the REM group]] It is a pity that you have presented this subject as you have done: that is why we are today facing this motion of rejection, which I deplore and on which our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u296	The next speaker is Mr Hervé Saulignac, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u297	What a passion for a debate that will be evacuated in a few seconds! I have heard from all the speakers that water is indispensable for life: I would have liked to hear that the debate is indispensable for democracy. A motion of rejection has a specific meaning. That is not simply to say that we do not agree: that is to say that there is no even reason to deliberate. However, I have heard a lot of debate on the explanatory memorandum, but almost nothing about the single article! [[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] In reality there are two points of debate: the free availability of water that is essential to life – not the one that is used to beat up in its swimming pool – and the place of public power in the production and management of water. If I judge from the passion of each other, we should have had this debate. But you choose to deprive us of it. What will remain of this decision, ladies and gentlemen, if not the conviction that these parliamentary niches are a huge joke? That is why we will oppose this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u298	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u299	Accordingly, the proposed constitutional law is rejected. There will be no need for the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u300	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u301	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u302	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Eric Coquerel and others on the introduction of a receipt in the context of an identity check (No. 520, 593).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u303	I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u304	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this proposal for a law on the testing of the identity check receipt, you will give satisfaction to many. This will allow you, in particular, to keep a promise from François Hollande, and to respond to the concerns of an Emmanuel Macron explaining that there are "many too many identity checks, with real discrimination". To respond positively to the wishes of the last two Presidents of the Republic should, in theory, ensure a comfortable majority of this bill. However, I think it is useful to finish convincing you. Emmanuel Macron is right: there are far too many identity checks. According to the sources, the work of the Parliament or the Defender of Rights, it is estimated that there are between five and ten million per year. The gap is great, but how can we do otherwise without any traceability of this procedure? Let us point out the first anomaly: this is the only procedure to leave no trace. You throw a butt into the gutter, you're in violation of parking regulations? A document is left to you. But for a check that can also be accompanied by palpations and excavations and sometimes degenerate, nothing. Why can we say that there are too many controls? Because at the same time, other studies – that of the CNRS or that carried out by the National Police Directorate-General on the basis of two investigations carried out for six months in the Hérault and Val d'Oise in 2014 – reveal that less than 5% of the checks have a police or judicial follow-up. This figure also includes the consequences of the control itself, of the "outrage to agent" type. This means that 95% is useless, in any case not to elucidate a case. I am sure that on the benches of the majority, where we are so quick to track the supposedly superfluous spending of the state, we will be alarmed at such inefficiency with regard to the human resources mobilized. It should be borne in mind, therefore, that there are too many controls and that in almost all cases they are useless. Let us turn to the second part of the sentence of the President of the Republic: "with true discrimination". Again he's right. It expresses a fact of fact that all the associations, collectives and unions of magistrates and lawyers we have heard denounce. I will not mention all the studies, many of them: I will limit myself to the one commissioned by the Defender of Rights. The study indicates that 80 per cent of the black and Arabic male profile reported having been checked in the last five years, compared with 16 per cent for the rest of the population. This discrimination is so flagrant, real, concrete that it has not escaped justice or international organizations. The Court of Cassation thus ruled in a series of judgments of 9 November 2016 that these discriminatory identity checks constituted a serious fault liable to the responsibility of the State. Recently, the United Nations, as part of its periodic reviews of the world's human rights situation, pointed to France for ethnic profiling and face control. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, beyond this indisputable data, to make you feel what this means. Indeed, let us admit it together, very few here have had the opportunity to experience this experience. Very few, but there are certainly some: I am thinking of our friend Younous Omarjee, Member of the European Parliament, who often passes through the Gare du Nord when he goes to Paris and who is regularly checked there... Would it be because he's not white? I leave it to you to answer that question. I would also like to quote some of the reactions of the people we auditioned, strong enough to be quoted as follows: "I don't necessarily want to wake up every morning by thinking that I'm black, by defining myself by my skin colour, but as a citizen like another, equal to another. Facial control brings me back to my supposed ethnic origin. It's against my idea of the Republic. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u305	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u306	"I feel these frequent controls as humiliating degradation ceremonies." "We need to know what it sometimes causes in everyday life: a delay in his work, his examination, his course, and this without any justification being given to be excused."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u307	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u308	I invite you to reflect on this situation, ladies and gentlemen. You are on the subway or on the street, and you see controlled people: the first reflex is always to wonder what offence they have committed! And as these people are, we have seen, most often young, perceived as black or Maghreb, quickly insinuates another reflex: why are these people often to be controlled? This is how Facial Control, in addition to being unbearable to the populations who are victims of it, spreads racism. Let us recall the right answer: in more than nine out of ten cases, they have committed no crime, no fault, except to be perceived as black or Arabic! Let us summarize again: too many, useless and therefore costly, discriminatory. Finally, there is a third consequence. Police control is, I quote, the president of the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights, Christine Lazerges, an "abscess of establishing police-population relations". In many neighbourhoods, it tends to the extreme to report to the police, which, unfortunately, sometimes leads to the violence that is known. It was therefore also consent to peacekeeping that was weakened.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u310	Since I'm talking about the police, I'll go ahead of the arguments heard in committee in the mouth of those who oppose this receipt. According to them, this is actually a "anti-flics" bill, a widespread distrust of the police. These words, often from those who in the past supported governments that had removed 13,000 police or gendarmerie posts and removed the effective local police from a feather, would lend a smile if the subject were not so serious. I will therefore speak to the police: I know you, especially in the popular departments, exhausted by your working conditions, stress and fatigue. I know that the policy of the number is a good thing for you. I finally know, apart from a minority of you, that you suffer from your conflict with the people of the working-class neighbourhoods and the role you are being made to play. This policy of identity control is the syndrome. In the absence of the means necessary to use other methods of investigation, control is ultimately the method of investigation of the poor. I would like to tell you that where receipt experiments have been carried out – in Spain, Great Britain or Switzerland – your colleagues have all noted a marked improvement in relations with the population. In Spain, the elucidation rate has increased from 6 to 17 per cent for three times less checks. In New York, between 2011 and 2017, a 98 per cent decrease in identity checks was carried out, and at the same time insecurity decreased. So there's a life, and safety, after the controls. So do not see any mistrust of the police in general in our proposal, but the desire to revise a system that does not work and that causes damage. The legislator, in the name of the company, is in his law when he considers such a reform necessary. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the Republic on the move, at a time when, by your law on the right to error, you are asking the administration as a whole, including the tax administration, to prove the bad faith of a possible violator, it would be paradoxical, you will agree, that none of the methods of an administration whose powers are among the most important can be called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u312	Why the receipt? He won't settle everything, we know. But all the associations, trade unions, personalities who have helped us in the development of our proposal say its importance. It is important, on the one hand, for controlled persons, as it will enable them to react in cases of discriminatory abuse. With the help of associations and elected officials, people may, for example, challenge being checked several times a week, sometimes by the same police officers, without the motive being considered sufficient. It is known that it is difficult to file a complaint before the General Inspectorate of the National Police – IGPN – but before it as well as before the courts, the receipt will be authentic. It is basically a means of ensuring compliance with article 15 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789: "Society has the right to ask any public official of its administration". And for the police, it will be an opportunity to question the reason for the control and to stop trivializing it: why do we control this person? In connection with what investigation? This can only improve the efficiency of his work. Section 1 of our bill provides for the amendment of section 78(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which makes the right to conduct a review based on " plausible" grounds. We ask that the control respond to "objective and individualized" reasons, because it cannot result from a global context and must be ordered because of the possible individual and direct involvement of the controlled person in a case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u313	We must conclude, Mr. Coquerel...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u314	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We have been reasonable and we propose that you carry out an inexpensive experiment, which will make it possible to judge, in a year's time, the effectiveness of this procedure. For all these reasons, I expect you, ladies and gentlemen, to amaze us this evening by not voting on the motion of rejection that you have prepared and by approving this bill. You would thus deny all those who believe you are unable to vote in favour of a proposal put forward by France that is unsubstantiated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u315	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u316	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill tabled by the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, the main purpose of which is to provide for an experiment, lasting a maximum of one year and in municipalities which would be candidates for it, consisting in issuing a receipt to persons subject to an identity check. The text also proposes amending article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to expressly limit the ability to carry out identity checks to "objective and individualized" reasons, instead of the current concept of " plausible reasons". These matters are not new, and Parliament has already debated them several times in the previous legislature, either in the context of the consideration of bills or in the context of ad hoc bills tabled on this subject. Identity checks are an important indicator of the quality of relations between the security forces and the population. They are regularly the subject of controversy, linked to their implementation, sometimes supposedly discriminatory, lack of traceability and their lack of effectiveness against crime. I prefer to state this from the beginning of my opening remarks: the Government is against the legislative amendments proposed by this text, which have already been rejected on numerous occasions by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u317	He's got a chance to make up for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u318	In his speech of 18 October 2017 to the internal security forces, the President of the Republic outlined the main directions of our action in this area. While avoiding the idea of setting up the receipt in the event of identity checks, the Head of State has drawn up three paths of transformation aimed at improving relations between law enforcement officials and the population: defining priority missions and avoiding systematic checks; sending the most experienced civil servants to difficult terrain and qualitatively strengthening management; extend the cameras-pedestrian devices with pragmatism and voluntarism. I will not dwell here on the description of the legal framework for identity checks, as defined in article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is intended for the purpose of raising doubts about observed behaviour or random control for the purpose of prevention. On the other hand, I would like to recall recent developments in the case law in this area. First of all, by three decisions of 9 November 2016, the Court of Cassation upheld the State's conviction for gross misconduct in the functioning of the public service of justice for identity checks carried out on requisitions by the public prosecutor on the basis of article 78(2) and found to be discriminatory. These decisions define the methods of proof of discrimination. As in labour law, it is up to the person who has been the subject of an identity check and who asks the court to provide the judge with evidence suggesting that there is discrimination. It is then up to the administration either to demonstrate the absence of discrimination or to justify the difference in treatment with objective elements. Furthermore, on 24 January 2017, the Constitutional Council, seized of two priority issues of constitutionality, declared the provisions of the Code authorizing the carrying out of identity checks to be in conformity with the Constitution, making three reservations: the implementation of identity checks must be based exclusively on criteria excluding any discrimination of any kind between persons; the public prosecutor may not detain places and periods unrelated to the search for the offences referred to in the requisitions; the prosecutor cannot, by a combination of requisitions, authorize the practice of generalised identity checks in time and space. These recent decisions clearly demonstrate, if necessary, that identity checks cannot be used in a discriminatory manner: when they are used, because this can indeed happen, the courts sanction them! However, my point is not to deny that the practice of identity checks is subject to debate or questioning. From this point of view, the Ministry of the Interior has not remained passive in the face of these debates and has taken a number of steps. On 1 January 2014, for the first time, a new code of ethics common to the national police and gendarmerie came into force, regulating the practical conduct of identity checks, in particular security checks, and recalling the principle of non-discrimination. According to the Code, "when authorized by law to carry out identity checks, the police officer or gendarmerie shall not rely on any physical characteristics or distinctive signs to determine the persons to be checked, unless he or she has a specific warning that motivates the check. The identity check shall be carried out without prejudice to the dignity of the person to whom it relates."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u319	Anyway, it's okay.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u320	Then, within the same code, the principle of individual identification of the officers of the national police and the soldiers of the national gendarmerie is now laid down. This apparent obligation to wear is necessary, whether they act in uniform or in civil dress. In case of difficulty, the personal identification number allows the hierarchy to carry out the necessary checks. In addition, in September 2013 Internet reporting platforms were set up within the General Inspection of the National Police and the General Inspection of the National Gendarmerie, allowing individuals to report any alleged misconduct or witness violations. [[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the Ministry has organized itself to strengthen theoretical and practical training in identity checks and security palpations in schools of initial training: courtesy, dedication and pedagogy are thus the solid guarantees of a police in line with its population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u321	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u322	Nothing forbids, madam, to do pedagogy and to teach respect for the other. Of course, it is up to us to continue the efforts thus undertaken. Recent cases, some of which have covered the chronicles, show that inappropriate behaviour or individual slipping is possible. Such acts are systematically subject to adequate administrative and judicial procedures. In this respect, the Ministry of the Interior has no laxity. In addition, one of the objectives of the daily security police is to bring the police closer to the population. However, is the bill that we are debating today a way forward to prolong these efforts?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u323	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u324	That was not the Government's view.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u325	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u326	First of all, with regard to the development of the legal framework for identity checks, proposed in article 1 of the proposed law, the Government considers that the current wording of article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, contrary to what the authors of the text claim, does not suffer from any impreciseness and does not in any way assign an "arbitrary" power to members of the security forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u327	It's counterproductive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u328	Indeed, it defines precisely the circumstances in which an identity check can be carried out. Any identity checks carried out outside the defined framework would have no legal basis. Moreover, the use of such a measure must already be based on objective reasons relating to the prevention of serious breaches of the security of persons and property or the search for offences and the identification of their perpetrators. The forces of law and order must therefore objective the reasons that trigger the control. These requirements are in line with an earlier case law of the Constitutional Council, dating back to 1993, which states that the implementation of identity checks "must be based exclusively on objective criteria and excluding, in strict compliance with the principles and rules of constitutional value, any discrimination of any kind between persons". As I pointed out at the moment, it is up to the judge to ensure that these requirements are complied with and to censor the illegalities found. In addition, the concept of " plausible grounds for suspecting", as used in article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is well known to the police. Thus, article 62 (2) of the same Code relating to detention in custody expressly refers to it. The use of such a measure, as well as identity checks, must necessarily be based on objective, individualised and precisely detailed reasons. The courts therefore exercise vigilant control over the implementation of the relevant legislation and do not hesitate to hold the State responsible in the event of unfounded or discriminatory controls. With regard to article 2 of the text, it provides for the establishment, on an experimental basis and for a maximum period of one year, of a receipt for all identity checks provided for in article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the municipalities which so request. As far as the legal method is concerned, I have doubts about the constitutionality of such a provision, which, dealing with prerogatives which are the responsibility of the State and which commit rights and freedoms protected by the Constitution, would leave the municipalities with the power to decide that an identity check should give rise to the issuance of a receipt in their territory. On the merits, the establishment of the practice of the receipt, even on an experimental basis, constitutes a recurrent proposal whose explicit aim is to limit the number of identity checks to which the same person may be subjected during a short period, in order to avoid that it is discriminatory. The Government is not in favour of such an experiment for several reasons. If the delivery of a receipt makes it possible to trace the identity checks carried out, it is not sufficient to show that they are discriminatory. Producing receipts will not allow the applicant to establish the discriminatory nature of the identity checks to which he has been subjected. Furthermore, the proposed wording does not facilitate the establishment of the traceability of the checks, since the document submitted to the person concerned is intended to provide for arrangements to guarantee the anonymity of the controlled persons. The question therefore arises as to how to remove such anonymity in order, where appropriate, to produce the documents before a court and to establish that the applicant is the person who has been the subject of the review. The only way to obtain a comprehensive assessment of identity checks would be to create a national database in which all identity checks would be recorded, as well as the identity of the agents who carried out the checks and of the persons checked. The difficulties of establishing such a database, both in terms of privacy protection and the time spent by law enforcement agencies in providing information, are understood. Moreover, the constitutionality of such treatment seems to me to be questionable. In addition, the establishment of a receipt is likely to substantially increase the duration of identity checks, increase the burden on officials and limit the number of identity checks that can be carried out. At a time when the ministry is developing the use of electronic tablets by law enforcement officials, you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that giving every police officer and gendarmerie a stump book to deliver receipts is not a sign of frank modernity! Moreover, the implementation of the receipt cannot prevent members of the security forces, for obvious reasons of public security, from again checking a person who has already been checked, even shortly before. I would also point out that Article 211 of the Law of 27 January 2017 on Equality and Citizenship provides for the experimental use of a mobile camera device during each identity check carried out in accordance with Article 78-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in priority security zones defined by decree and distributed in some 20 departments. According to article L. 241-1 of the Code of Internal Security, the use of mobile cameras by the police and gendarmerie forces, in the exercise of their mission to prevent breaches of public order and to protect the security of persons as well as of the judicial police, makes it possible to make an audiovisual recording of their interventions in all places. The purpose of these recordings, which are intended to prevent incidents in the course of intervention, to enable the detection of offences and the prosecution of their perpetrators through the collection of evidence and to ensure that officers and military personnel comply with their obligations, is such as to deter any undue checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u329	But that's not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u330	The police decide to press the button!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u331	The results of this experiment, scheduled for a period of one year from the 1st of March 2017, will be drawn up within three months of its completion, i.e. on the 1st of June next. It seems necessary to draw up an initial assessment of the current experiment before considering the generalisation of the scheme in case it proves to be conclusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u332	We can do two experiments! "At the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u333	Moreover, all the material means by allowing the extension are implemented, as a call for tenders for the purchase of 10400 cameras has been launched. In conclusion, the Government could not support such a bill. I would like to recall that the Ministry of the Interior, following a very broad process of consultation, I would say without precedent, will launch the daily security police very soon. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It will aim to prevent the behaviour against which this bill seeks to combat, in particular by encouraging the retention of civil servants in the most difficult sectors, by developing training modules on contact with the population but also by further simplifying access to police services for citizens wishing to report discrimination. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to postpone the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u334	In the general debate, Mrs Sabine Rubin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u335	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the tension and even violence that characterizes the relationship between the police forces and some of our fellow citizens are worrying in various ways. First of all, they undermine our image in the world. France, the country of the declaration of human and citizen rights, is pointed out by the UN for ethnic profiling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u336	Definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u337	Secondly, this situation violates equality, which is the fundamental value of our Republic, and places the French State in default before the courts. The law recognizes that the systematization of identity checks is out-of-law. The Court of Cassation held, inter alia, on 9 November 2016 that discriminatory controls constituted a serious fault of the State. These two reasons should be sufficient to support any attempt to appease this tension, such as setting up the receipt. But a third reason should be mentioned: the humanly serious and unacceptable situation experienced by the two protagonists, the members of the police force on the one hand, and the citizens discriminated against on the other. Who among us, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has ever been the subject of identity checks?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u338	Me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u339	Almost all of them, in my opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u340	Recurrent? For my part, I've never been checked once!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u341	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u342	Why? In order to give a little flesh and reality to our often formal exchanges, I ask you again to imagine for a moment the daily life of a young man who does not have the right skin color. He left for work in the morning by metro and was first checked in the corridors, which made him arrive late to the office without any evidence to justify his delay with his employer. His day ended, he returned and underwent a second identity check. He arrives late again, this time at the school where he comes to pick up his little brother. Let us understand: it is all the daily life of these people that is upset! I don't have to live with this constant worry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u343	Not to mention the vexation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u344	It is also easy to imagine the humiliation suffered, a humiliation not of a day but of a daily nature, which calls into question the very identity of those who are victims of it! This moves from identity checks to a controlled identity. I was particularly impressed by a story we heard during our auditions: that of these children who were barely twelve years old and who, by virtue of being controlled, almost instinctively, were standing in front of the wall, legs wide apart, at the sight of a police officer heading towards them. It is easy to understand the legitimate anger of those who are subjected to these repeated controls. Some develop a resentment that feeds the spiral of violence. Moreover, of the 4% of identity checks leading to prosecution, much of the proceedings result from the count of contempt of agent. They are therefore the fruit of the control itself: it is a climax! In addition to being unfair, these controls are ineffective. But what amazes me most is, rather than anger, the calm of so many people who are subjected to this institutional violence and who simply appeal to the law, justice and dignity of every citizen. Besides, between anger and cold blood, the most common attitude is resignation. Many internalize the fact of being second-class citizens. Understanding the problem in all its dimensions requires taking it from both ends. Let's go to the police. Many reports echo their difficult working conditions; The terrible figure of fifty and one police suicide in 2017 also shows this. To this must be added the facts of violence against them. It is unacceptable that those who are supposed to protect citizens have become targets for some offenders. Of course, you will have a context in which to combat terrorist acts; You'll tell us that crime is on the rise. But in the last fifteen years, police numbers have declined, and the efforts of the services recently do not fill the terrible lack of human resources. In addition to the inexperience of young recruits, there is a lack of chronic training. And the first thing that poisons the work of the police is the policy of the number. Overwork and stress are incompatible with police activity, which requires very high self-control. So we see how police officers as citizens suffer from this climate of tension. But it is not a question of drawing up an apocalyptic picture of the relations between the police and the citizens. We were reminded that 80 per cent of French people trusted the police. We are well aware of this, and in the interests of objectivity, when we are constantly accused of ideological bias, we take into account all the figures at our disposal. I would now like to go back to the arguments that have been opposed to us in committee. To the right, we are told that the receipt discredits the work of the police forces, that it stigmatizes them. But it is not the receipt that stigmatizes, it is the facts, the figures – those of the CNRS, the Open Society Justice Initiative, the Defender of Rights and even the UN, which are not that I know the anti-flic leftists! Moreover, if there is a code of ethics, and if it has recently been modified, it is good to respond to malfunctions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u345	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u346	On these same benches, it is also considered scandalous to control the controllers. However, all civil servants are subject to controls. In the private sector, everyone is accountable for their activities, and we Members must now do so. Why should police officers escape control? At the centre of this House, we are constantly being praised for our trustworthy society. All right! But that is precisely the problem: the trust between a section of the population and the police is broken. You are arguing to reject our proposal for a law of the experiment of the camera-piedon, which is already an indisputable recognition of the problem – this is an acquired point. But receipt and camera are not incompatible! Let me also remind you that the camera already raises some questions, including the possibility for the policeman to turn it off and the monstrous cost of a possible generalization. As for the argument raised by all the opponents of this proposal for a law on the burden of work that this system would bring, it does not stand. It is even the opposite that would happen: with machines similar to those of parking controls, easy to use, the work performed will be easier, and traceable. In addition, the supervision of identity checks will reduce the number of such checks, as the President of the Republic wishes. In this way, the police will have more time to fulfill the essential tasks you mentioned, Minister: the protection of property and persons and the maintenance of public order. I urge you – but in vain, I know: let us ignore our ideological differences, our postures. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Why not say yes to a tool that could appease relations between police and citizens, which would allow police officers to be more circumspect in the checks carried out and thus make their work more efficient, a tool that would protect them from the suspicion of discrimination, an inexpensive tool that has proved its worth abroad? Why not say yes to a proposal to experiment on voluntary cities – which are growing in number?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u347	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u348	We have met again for a debate which, let us admit, is not a real novelty. Because this proposal has too often been rejected by different governments, perhaps the time has come to experiment with it seriously: it is the only way to validate or invalidate its efficiency. National representation will emerge from this debate if it escapes from two sides: caricature and received ideas. No, it is not a question of establishing control over controls to flick the forces of law and order: they have our confidence. No, to be concerned about the checks carried out on discriminatory criteria is not to express distrust of the police and gendarmerie forces whose work I welcome here. No, to say that there are abuses is not to cast reproach on the security forces, who all know how difficult the mission is, in a context of social tensions and unprecedented risks. This debate does not oppose the union of advocates of order to that of defenders of disorder! The subject is the Republic, and its rules must be irreproachably applied if we are to return to the lost confidence in certain categories of the French population. The law is first of all bounds, so that we can use it without abuse. As for the ideas received or preconceived, there are at least two: the receipt would be of an unbearable heaviness, as well as inefficacy. However, the procedures for issuing the receipt have not even been discussed in committee! However, believe that it may be faster to issue a receipt than to draw up a report for embarrassing parking. And if the tablets have to spread, then why would the digital receipt be a chimera? As for inefficiency, it is quite questionable, according to the Spanish or British examples: controls have sometimes been divided by two for double efficiency. So why refuse with a certain obstinacy to check the efficiency of these controls? Do you think the Defender of Rights became a patented leftist when he asked for a nominative certificate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u349	[[Smile]] We can't exclude him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u350	Do you believe that the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights does not issue an informed opinion when recommending the establishment of a system of traceability of identity checks? Do you think that the Paris Court of Appeal is derogatory when it condemns the state for gross misconduct due to discriminatory identity checks? So there is a reality, however embarrassing it may be. Let's get out of the postures to look her in front: identity checks weigh 20 times more on some than on others – depending on whether you're in a sweatsuit and you're wearing black skin, or in a suit with white skin. Allow me to regret the extreme poverty of the debate on substance in the Committee on Laws. No alternative or supplementary proposals have been put forward by those who contest this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u351	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u352	Worse, some made it clear that there was no subject. At most, perhaps, some possible abuses... And the victims would only have to assert their rights! It is a profound failure to know what is going on in certain categories of population. It is also ignoring the reality experienced by some police officers. Who can claim that a police officer thrives on doing identity checks all day long? What gives all its interest to this proposal is precisely that it invites us to put an end to this debate by experimenting, which I think is far more noble than to give it a balance of political strength which, in the light of our Rules of Procedure, makes it possible to reject arbitrarily. The New Left group is quite lucid about the receipt and its limits: if it can have its virtues, it is one tool among others. It alone cannot correct all the abusive controls and even less reshape the relationship between the police and the population. I regret that the debates in committee did not allow us to address additional provisions to this receipt. I am thinking in particular of the training of law enforcement officers, for whom identity control is too often the only and systematic way to get in touch, the dematerialization of controls, which have remained unchanged for years, variants of the receipt, such as the attestations that some advocate, or procedures for assessing the relationship between the police and the population, as they exist in Canada, for example. The majority often tell us that it is necessary to be bold, innovative and enterprising to build the new world. Shit! Let's consider the receipt to be a start. The New Left Group is ready to build the suite. We therefore hope that the application of the receipt will be accompanied by a serious assessment. We hope that the work will be undertaken with the representatives of the trade unions concerned to consider controlling less, but better. We want an evaluation of the mobile cameras that equip some police officers. In fact, it's planned. Above all, we hope that the unbearable and contemptuous speeches of those who neglect discriminatory controls and their effects on those who sometimes live them on a daily basis will cease. Yes, we want this experiment to finally be carried out. We hope that this problem that weakens the Republic will no longer be ignored. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] That is why we will support this bill, not without telling you that it deserves better than a rejection motion which, like some controls, would seem to us to be quite abusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u353	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u354	The proposal for a law introduced by our colleagues in France to introduce the issue of a receipt as part of an identity check deals with a subject that has been discussed several times, and for the last time in a very significant way under the previous quinquennium. While the candidate in the presidential election François Hollande had included him in his programme during his campaign, this arrangement had not finally been adopted by the Ayrault government, which then acknowledged that it did not want to "impose a device that would quickly turn ridiculous and would be inoperative". This was followed by a preference for a testimony of confidence in our security forces and a reaffirmation of the principles of a republican police force, with the drafting of a new code of ethics for the security forces. By still opposing the release of this receipt, even on an experimental basis, our group intends to reaffirm this need for the bond of trust between our police forces and our fellow citizens. On the contrary, we believe that it would be irresponsible for national representation to vote on this law today, suggesting that we doubt those who have the essential and primordial task of ensuring our security on a daily basis, under increasingly difficult conditions. It is a society of trust that we want, not a society of suspicion and red tape. Of course, irregular and reprehensible behaviour exists. They must be taken up, and if necessary prosecuted and punished. Yes, the State is guilty of gross misconduct when its police carry out discriminatory identity checks, as indicated by the Court of Cassation in its decisions of 9 November 2016. Nor do I intend to challenge the studies that you cite in the explanatory memorandum of the text on the number of identity checks that are far higher for people perceived as black or Arabic than for individuals perceived as white. But in what way will the release of a receipt guarantee us against these defeats? Is there not, on the contrary, a risk of increased tension between the policeman who wishes to legitimize his control and the one who will then brandish, such as a white-seing or a trophy, his or her receipt, as a challenge, opposition or refusal? For it must be recalled that notwithstanding one or more prior checks, even in a short time, the suspicious behaviour of an individual can always legally justify an umpteenth check by the law enforcement authorities. You yourself point out in the explanatory memorandum that you do not want the identity check receipt to constitute a "totem of immunity" for individuals, which they could brandish in order to avoid further justified checks. We are therefore, Mr Coquerel, on this point perfectly in agreement. So let's avoid writing rules that could become those of a game of provocation and increase tensions. On the other hand, the argument that identity checks would be ineffective because they would result in only 5% prosecution is inoperative. Indeed, identity checks are carried out by our law enforcement agencies on the occasion of, among other things, their various services and on the basis of the suspicious behaviour they may encounter. The identity checks leading to these procedures are carried out on a constant basis. This is not a dedicated service and controls are not always the primary purpose of the police presence on the ground. In addition, identity checks are legally regulated to prevent random or discriminatory checks. Thus, article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires that "one or more plausible grounds for suspecting" that the controlled person has committed or is preparing to commit an offence exist to justify the control. Where the supervision gives rise to a judicial procedure, the police officer has an obligation to state precisely the reasons for the review, failing which the procedure is flawed and therefore annulled. Beyond this legal framework which guarantees the individual freedoms and the ex post audit of the judicial judge, the law on equality and citizenship has allowed since 1 March 2017 to experiment with filmed identity checks in 23 priority security areas in the Paris region, in Haute-Garonne and in the Alpes-Maritimes. Police officers and gendarmes are equipped with pediment cameras activated at the time of the inspection. In our view, the guarantee which is thus offered to our fellow citizens as to the grounds and conditions for identity checks is far superior to that provided by the issue of a receipt which you propose. It is now important to await the results of this experiment in order to envisage, where appropriate, a generalization of the scheme throughout the territory. Finally, we must recall the experiment in the coming weeks of the daily security police, which should further strengthen the proximity and confidence between our law enforcement agencies and our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u355	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u356	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill tabled by France which we are examining is twofold: to limit the cases in which law enforcement agencies can carry out identity checks and put in place a receipt in the context of such checks. As I say at the outset, the Republican Group is quite opposed to this bill. First, identity checks are essential tools for police and gendarmes. It would be irresponsible to restrict its scope. Without identity checks, there's no police available. Article 1 limits the possibility of making use of it, by allowing identity checks if there are "objective and individualized" rather than " plausible" reasons for believing that an offence has been or will be committed. In a context of maximum terrorist threat and continuous increase in crime, it is necessary, on the other hand, to maintain at least, or even increase, the possibility of such controls. We are also opposed to the introduction of a receipt as part of an identity check for several reasons. First of all, identity checks have already been supervised, as the Minister recalled. Article R. 434-16 of the Internal Security Code states that "where the law authorizes the police officer or the gendarmerie to carry out an identity check, the police officer or the gendarmerie shall not rely on any physical characteristic or distinctive sign to determine the persons to be checked [...]. The identity check shall be carried out without prejudice to the dignity of the person to whom it relates." In addition, in order to ensure the identification of the persons responsible for the identity check, the staff member's number shall be affixed to his uniform, so as to allow possible recourse to those who consider themselves to be improperly or excessively checked. Finally, police officers are now equipped with pediment cameras in priority security areas, in accordance with a decree issued in March 2017 pursuant to the Equality and Citizenship Act. Secondly, your proposal is an unacceptable sign of distrust of law enforcement. I quote a police official for whom, with this measure, the police are stigmatized as a racist police and discredit the moral honesty of the police officers by suggesting that they carry out checks outside the law, in particular under article R. 434-16. I give you two figures, ladies and gentlemen. Every year, an average of 20 police officers and gendarmes die in the performance of their duties. Every day, as many as fifty-two police officers and gendarmes are injured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u357	So what? What do you draw from it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u358	Contrary to what this text suggests, police abuse of controls is marginal. The number of complaints against law enforcement officials is very low. I would also point out that the police institution is one of the most controlled state services. In addition, the receipt would be detrimental to the effectiveness of the criminal investigation. The bureaucratic measure that you are proposing would be cumbersome to manage even though the law enforcement forces are already overburdened. It would lead to a significant increase in work on the ground to fill these receipts and then to treat them when they return to the brigade or the police station. But it is more serious: CNIL has expressed strong reservations about the legal reliability of this system, and has expressed concern about the possibilities of filing, or even tracing, of controlled persons. Finally, the effectiveness of this device is not proven. The 2012 report of the Defender of Rights on police-citizen relations and identity checks concluded that "the solution of the receipt, including in its most advanced form, does not essentially address the problem of discriminatory controls but appears, by its mechanical effects alone, as a source of reduction in the number of checks and, as a result, of the number of abusive checks". For all these reasons, even though this was a commitment of the candidate Hollande in 2012 and several amendments had been tabled to this effect, the previous majority refused to introduce such a mechanism. I heard Mrs. Rubin's story about that person who was checked in the morning on the subway and who arrived late for work. I'll tell you another story that I know well, mine. I was a constable for more than two decades, and I ordered thousands of constables, taking into account all my positions. I have observed, and shared with them, – you could say the police as well – a great respect for the human person and a high professional conscience. I contest the assertion that the number hunt would be a leitmotiv. I am not saying that there is no such thing, but I have never been confronted with it personally. Unfortunately, I sometimes had to tell a woman that her husband had been killed on duty. Faced with these extreme tragedies, the pseudo-traumatism of identity checks seems particularly derisory to me. Besides, why fear identity checks when you have nothing to blame?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u359	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u360	The Republican Group will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u361	Demagogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u362	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u363	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory memorandum, the drafters of the bill set themselves the objective, I quote, "to strengthen the confidence given by the French to civil servants, national police officers and peacekeepers". I want to reassure them. This concern to strengthen the confidence of the French in their police is probably a good feeling, but the barometer of the political confidence of the very serious CEVIPOF, the political research centre of Sciences Po Paris, published in the Sunday Journal, tells us that the confidence index is already 80%. The police thus rank third, just behind the hospitals and the army, far ahead of the political parties – I like to recall – which close the march with only a 13 per cent index. There may be areas where relations between the population and the police are degraded. These difficulties, which should not be underestimated, call for ad hoc solutions. There is no reason to treat them by adopting a general standard applicable throughout the territory of the Republic. The law in force, specifically article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on identity checks, does not confer arbitrary powers on police officers. Apart from acting on specific instructions from the public prosecutor, in specific places and for a specified period of time, police officers or gendarmes may carry out identity checks only within a very limited procedural framework: during the commission, attempt or preparation of an offence, the execution of a judicial control measure, the application of a sentence or the execution of a search warrant. The law is precise, its implementation is no less precise. When the control is challenged, it is up to the police officer to report the evidence that he was in a position to do so, more specifically, that he had "a plausible reason to suspect" that he was in such a situation. Case law is showing itself on this very vigilant point. I have read the judgments of the Court of Cassation of 9 November 2016, which have been referred to on several occasions. They were handed down on appeals against thirteen judgments handed down by the Paris Court of Appeal: in five cases, the State had already been sanctioned by the judges on the merits; In the other eight cases, where State responsibility had been waived, only one decision was the subject of a cassation decision, based on the existence of possible discrimination. Finally, the practice of police officers on the ground – I have known her for many years – does not run counter to the criticisms made by the authors of the bill. They charge them with discriminatory practices, which would involve, among other things, face checks near Parisian stations, or controls targeting 18-25 year-olds and even 17-18 year-olds in the field of narcotics. This reproach seems unfair to me. Our judicial police are brought every day, in order to carry out their missions with forced means, to target its controls. When it comes to substance abuse, an 18-year-old is more likely to be a consumer or small dealer than a 50-year-old mother or pensioner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u364	You don't say anything about the color of the skin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u365	Police officers include statistical targeting of controlled persons in their daily work, such as tax officers with a particular profession, or social services with a particular type of family. The origins of police officers reflect the diversity of French society – it is enough to enter a police station to realize this, especially in the departments that have been mentioned. These men and women are in no way motivated by discriminatory prejudices but by the desire to fulfil, as effectively as possible, the mission entrusted to them. Finally, the technical device proposed, that of the receipt, does not bear the conviction. For my part, I see three drawbacks. First of all, the device is of no practical use to the controlled person, who could not rely on it to avoid subsequent controls, were they operated on the same day – the authors of the bill agree. Second, the receipt imposes a rather heavy additional burden on police officers, thereby reducing the effectiveness of their intervention. The third disadvantage is that, in the best case scenario, the measure could only result in the creation of a national register of all the data collected in individual receipts, which are cumbersome and costly in its implementation. Moreover, such a file would have no other purpose than to compile ethnic statistics on controlled persons, which would be contrary to our republican traditions. The proposal to issue a receipt during the identity checks, it was said, was not new: it had been put forward by Mr Hollande during the 2012 presidential campaign. Manuel Valls opposed it twice, the first in September 2012 when he was Minister of the Interior, the second in 2015 as Prime Minister. Other avenues were followed: the installation of pediment-cameras, the visible presence of the agents' list, the establishment of computer platforms dedicated to the complainants, notably by the general inspection of the national police, and, finally, the drafting of a code of ethics. These measures are not exclusive to other tools to imagine. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In the end, the bill before us today is mostly at a disadvantage and offers questionable solutions. Let us be vigilant, ladies and gentlemen: the recurrent criticism of our police services, suspected of discriminatory practices against ethnic minorities, is part of a broader effort to denigrate institutions and denounce what would be a "state racism". This approach is not acceptable; Let's not let her prosper. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote on the motion to reject this bill in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u366	Well, that doesn't honor you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u367	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u368	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we must now take a position on the proposal for a law on the introduction of a receipt in the context of an identity check. The aim of this proposal is "to combat discriminatory and abusive identity checks". If there is one point on which the whole of this House agrees, it is of course the fact that no discrimination is admissible and that it is necessary to combat those committed in our territory; We must combat all discrimination. The recognition of this principle is therefore not the subject of the debate that brings us together today. Unanimity in these places is rare enough for us to stress it. The issue of discrimination in identity checks is all the more important as it affects law enforcement. The relationship between the State or the Republic and its citizens is of paramount importance. While the figures in this area are not questionable, they are discussed in a way that is all the more exacerbated by the fact that some cases and facts of current events are particularly shocking. We all have the Theo case in mind; It's hard not to think about it. However, the investigation continues and justice will determine the responsibility of everyone – it is not up to us to judge this case. In any case, these tragic facts make it possible to reaffirm another principle on which we all agree: there is no question of being lax in the face of unjustified violence. If impunity was not to be allowed, a trial of intent against all police officers would be unfair and should not have a place in the debate either. It would be too simple to reduce a profession to specific cases. Since the attacks of 2015, the security stakes in our country have never been so serious, and the pressure experienced by those who protect us on a daily basis has never been so great. Every day, the national police and gendarmerie work on difficult terrain and with too often insufficient resources, especially during often complex night operations – I can testify as a lawyer. However, a more negative picture should not be drawn than it is. Progress towards greater transparency has been made in recent years, with the obligation for police officers to display their number and the possibility of transporting a mobile camera during their interventions. It is therefore two realities that confront each other: the first is the discrimination suffered by some of our fellow citizens; The second is the lack of resources and recognition that the law enforcement forces denounce. Once these two observations have been made, we must find a solution, and that is where our opinions diverge. As beautiful as the intentions of principle are, they do not necessarily make good laws. In this case, there are three main reasons why I doubt the ability of the bill to achieve its goal of combating discrimination in identity checks. First of all, as you know, an identity check is subject to conditions. A police officer can only conduct a check if there is a "reasonable reason" to suspect an offence. In article 1 of the text before us, it is proposed that the Code of Criminal Procedure be amended so that identity checks are not subject to " plausible reasons", but rather to "objective and individualised reasons". This is a beautiful semantic change, but in fact, in everyday life, in the concrete world, what will change for the victims of discrimination? Nothing, because the definition given by the judges to the term " plausible" already corresponds to this notion of "objective and individual reason". In this respect, the current case law is clear and consistent with that of the European Court of Human Rights: "the existence of plausible suspicions presupposes the existence of facts or information capable of persuading an objective observer that the individual in question may have accomplished the offence". This definition is none other than that of a decision of the ECHR dating back to 1990. As France is a signatory to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, this definition applies. If we analyze the sentence, we quickly realize that the term "reason plausible" covers the notion of "objective and individual reason". Thus, the conclusion is that article 1 is unnecessary because it will not alter the existing law. The second reason that leads me to doubt the effectiveness of this text is in the content of the receipt. Article 2 states that the latter shall "specify the reason for the inspection". In this regard, there are two assumptions. The first is that it is a question of specifying strictly the reason for the control. In this case, however, this will only be a re-editing of the Code of Criminal Procedure, since the grounds for identity checks are already included in the law. Suffice it to read article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for five specific cases, including the following two: "to have committed or attempted to commit an offence" or "to prepare to commit a crime or an offence". If the goal is to get the police to copy the code, I don't see the interest in the victims. The judge is able to read these conditions when deciding a case of discrimination. The second hypothesis is that the police officer must circumstantiate the reasons for the control, that is, explain why he suspects that he or she has committed an offence. It has a name: a report. However, the preparation of a report takes time and logistics, time which the police officers do not have, logistics which they do not have. The identity check must be simple and quick to be effective. The policeman is not instructed to do secretarial work on the street when he is on mission! For this second reason, the bill, I repeat, is not appropriate and does not meet the needs. I come to my third point. The receipt must preserve the anonymity of the controlled persons. The stakes here are easy to identify; The opposition between the necessary data protection which the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms defends and the needs of the police is not new. However, if the need for anonymity can be agreed, there is a question of size: how can the integrity of the receipt be guaranteed? How can we ensure that an anonymous piece of paper is not falsified or passed on to a third party? Either the receipt is completely anonymous, but in this case the proof will never be admissible since the identity of the checked person cannot be verified; either the receipt is anonymized by means of a coded system, but in this case it will be necessary to make a registration or to make use of any other system. However, nothing is specified in the proposed law, let alone the question of the time and logistics referred to above once again. What should be kept in mind from all this is that the proposed items are, at best, useless and, at worst, inapplicable to the scale of the tasks of the national police. However, an inapplicable text is not a good text. Once again, by opposing this bill, I do not stand up for police impunity. In my view, the question is: by what realistic and applicable means can we combat discrimination? The debate on the receipt is not simple because its implementation raises serious questions. In my view, this bill is not appropriate to the issues it intends to address. I repeat: let us not sum up the debate on these serious issues to fine statements of principle, but let us be pragmatic and lucid about the realities of the field and the activities of the police forces. In my view, a possible evaluation of the current system would be a better orientation at first: it would allow to measure the number of slippages and convictions of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u369	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u370	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the long list of unfulfilled political promises, will the identity check receipt become the twin brother of foreigners' right to vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u371	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u372	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The refusal to grant the right to vote to our foreign fellow citizens in local elections has become the symbol of betrayal and the mark of trauma for millions of men and women who have the right to be taxpayers but who are prevented from expressing in the ballot box political choices that have an impact on their everyday lives. The eightieth of François Mitterrand's 110 proposals in 1981 and François Hollande's fiftieth in 2012 are part of the pantheon of the renunciations of successive governments, which nevertheless had the cards in hand to go in the direction of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u373	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u374	It should not be the same for the identity check receipt, which was François Hollande's number 30 commitment during the 2012 presidential campaign. In 2017, Emmanuel Macron certainly did not make a promise, but the future President of the Republic acknowledged during the election campaign that there were "too many identity checks, with real discrimination". The majority constituted by the Republic on the move, even more plethorical than that of the Socialist Party in 2012, can still go in the direction of a measure which, without being the miracle recipe, would make it possible to put a stop to the checks in the face, which many studies quantify and which the associations and the Defender of Rights himself point at. Facial control is not a fantasy, or it means that popular neighborhoods like those who elected me MP are territories where mythomania is a mass sport! I constantly meet young French people, whose origins are not European, in all the meetings I organise or in my daily life, who complain of being constantly and for no reason, simply because, like other older and more white citizens, they find themselves in the public space. Many police officers with whom I regularly discuss in my constituency recognize this systematism of control and are not adherents to this practice, which the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights describes as "abscess of fixing police-population tensions". The receipt of identity checks, which this bill put forward by the La France group and fully supported by the Communist deputies aims to experiment, is not an anti-police device. It is, on the contrary, a tool that would allow the police not to lock themselves in practices guided by the policy of the number, which, moreover, do not prove their effectiveness, since only 5% of the controlled become arrested. Systematic control is the weapon of a poor police force for a poor population! It is the residual action of a police force that has neither the means to conduct investigations nor the personnel to ensure a deterrent presence. This method, which the United Nations describes as "ethnic profiling", is, moreover, time-consuming, eating enough time for the police to carry out real public security work. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The receipt, which other countries such as the United Kingdom and Spain have chosen as a tool in several cities, would break a dangerous spiral and establish a traceability of controls, while at the same time relieving the ever-increasing tensions between the police and the population. Recently, the Government recognized the merits of the community police and decided to take a step towards its recovery by experimenting with it in several volunteer cities. The word "experimental" goes back to the title of the bill before us. MEPs sitting on all benches can therefore now take a second step, without risk, by voting for a text that would allow the State to break with a practice of checks on the face condemned by national and international courts. This bill is not only reasonable, since it proposes to experiment, but also inescapable: our country, the homeland of human rights, will not be able to remain indefinitely pointed out for this practice, both discriminatory and ineffective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u375	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1132.u376	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the establishment of a receipt in the context of an identity check; Discussion of the bill on euthanasia and assisted suicide, for a dignified end of life. The meeting is adjourned.
