ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill on housing, development and digital development (No. 846, 971, 881, 942, 944). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is ten hours thirty-four minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 505 amendments are under discussion; Seven hours fifty-seven minutes for the Republican Group, of which 742 amendments are under discussion; three hours five minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 124 amendments are under discussion; four hours thirty-seven minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, of which 118 amendments are under discussion; four hours twenty-eight minutes for the New Left Group, of which 189 amendments are under discussion; three hours thirty-three minutes for the Unsolicited France Group, of which 87 amendments are under discussion; two hours forty-six minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 214 amendments are under discussion; and fifty-nine seconds for the non-attached Members, of which 101 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with clause 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u3	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. First of all, Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u4	Article 25 concerns HLM organizations and their organisation. It creates a new obligation for social donors as of 1 January 2021: to join a group of social housing organisations managing at least 15,000 housing units. I very much regret this provision, of which I do not see the usefulness either for the social donors who build the most, or to obtain more complex financing and to pool more funds available. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups. – Ms Sylvia Pinel and Mr Bruno Fuchs also applaud]] Mr Minister for Territorial Cohesion, you are telling us to defend your position that this threshold has been negotiated with the social donors. I can only see that, with great regret. But as far as I am concerned, when I meet the social donors of my region, Brittany, in the constituency where I am elected, that of Saint-Malo, I see no one who seems to me to approve this decision. I'd even say it's the opposite. I would admit that the electoral district of Saint-Malo is not the whole of France, even if it is one of the most beautiful. That said, a housing organization with a moderate rent – when I was president of HLM, I was talking about "wonderful rental housing" – sometimes has to deal with a population that can, at certain stages of its life, more or less long, encounter difficulties and find itself in such disarray that it absolutely needs the proximity of the lessor. Of course – and this is what the Government replied to me in committee – the draft includes a territorial clause to ensure that decision-making centres are maintained as close as possible to the territories. I'm from Ille-et-Vilaine. In this department, you will see that with a threshold of 15,000 housing units, the Rennes metropolitan organization will quickly absorb other local organizations located in the rest of the territory, for example in Saint-Malo. And you will see that, very quickly, for reasons of convenience and financial savings, once the first stages of the merger have been completed, new provisions will come to suppress the proximity services. To ensure this closeness we all have here, we also have community organizations run by local elected officials as close as possible to their territory. These elected representatives know the inhabitants, their urban planning, the potential for construction. They have perfect control over the characteristics of rental demand in their territory. They know, through the local planning plan, to impose on private builders standards of construction of social rental housing. However, I am sure that sooner or later, rather than later, the threshold of 15,000 housing units will move the decision away from the proximity centres. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] I am not against grouping, minister, but I am in favour of voluntary grouping. By setting this threshold, however, you are going to induce forced regroupings that do not respect the territories. Why not prefer marriages, by organizing groupings according to territories and affinities between communities? Why, once again, do we want to create so many constraints when we can also change things by volunteering, by the freedom to which we all aspire?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u5	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u6	For this speech on the article, I am replacing my colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize, who has worked a great deal in committee on this very important subject. You are right, Minister, like the entire government, to say that it is absolutely essential to rethink the organization of our country's HLM organizations in order to make them more powerful. It is not appropriate for us to spend so much public money on housing policy for disappointing, if not non-existent, results in recent decades. You are taking an option – I will say it in English, even in this Chamber – on the big is beautiful. More powerful, broader organizations based on a broader financial base are needed to be able to invest, especially in the acquisition in the future state of completion, to better structure themselves in order to be able to monitor operations as contractors, and to assume economies of scale in order to have more skilled, qualified and more staff. Nevertheless, as you know, the need for the maintenance of the social park, maintenance, and above all social accompaniment, attributions, relations with mayors when it comes to managing an old or aging park or fragile populations. The whole sense of a successful social mix is to make people of different geographical, territorial and different backgrounds live together, whose family budgets are not the same, and it is the greatness of the Republic and its social policy that we can make them live better together. [[Gilles Lurton applauds]] Often, however, on the ground, this work is the work of local elected officials and social donors. Because you have to build, of course, but also manage on a daily basis. This human dimension must be taken into account in the diversity of territories. In a large number of territories, it is certain – as you have said with courage, Minister, including in front of the Social Housing Union, including in front of agitated rooms – that it is necessary to know how to meet instead of looking at the navel and to think that everything will continue as before. As in Le Guépard, everything has to change so that nothing changes, but nothing has to change: it was the will of certain organisms who wanted to remain isolated, secluded. In other territories, however, the same is not true. Minister, you have been on the ground for long enough, in the Auvergne region, and in the Senate, one of the representatives of the diversity of the territories, to know this: "depending on whether you will be powerful or miserable...", depending on whether a territory is small or large, metropolized or not, in the mountains or in the plains, action, judgment, success, the effectiveness of social donors cannot be judged at the same time, that of size and it alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u7	It's a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u9	We must all be aware of this when, in a few weeks – it is already in all minds – we will start a debate on the constitutional revision in which territorial differentiation can be a point of convergence between us. Ultramarines have been able to benefit from this in the past; Corsicans now want the benefit; and it goes without saying that, in a France that is increasingly metropolizing, we must know how to take into account metropolization, suburbanity, urbanity and rurality. If territorial differentiation is to be recognised tomorrow in our fundamental text itself, it is obvious that, within the ELAN law whose ambition is so great, Article 25 could take it into account, leaving to the appreciation and sagacity of the prefects, in connection with the local elected representatives, the possibilities to derogate from in order to adapt. [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group and on the benches in the GDR group]] Adapting will be more successful and more effective. I know, minister, that with you the whole government, but also with the majority – and far beyond it on these benches – want to revive the effectiveness of public spending and its social performance. It is by taking into account the territorial differences that we will be able to do so. It is in this spirit that the Democratic and Related Movement engages in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u10	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u11	It is important to remember why we are at this point: because our assisted housing operators suffered a financial frailty decreed during last autumn's reforms. You have nothing to do with it, minister: you have been the victim of Bercy, of the brutality of his measures. But since Bercy has a little ego, you've been told: "Moreover, it's consistent: the lower rent, it's not 5 euros, it's much more! But don't worry, it's the donors who will pay! And finally, the donors tell you, "Help! So you're looking for a solution, you're looking at Bercy, who says, "Look, the financial perimeter isn't going to change: find organizational solutions. » Techno response! "Regroup. But the essential question, which is not included in the text, is the question of means. We can make all sorts of assumptions about the negative or positive effects of these groupings, but this problem of the means, of the self-financing of donors, remains decisive. Will the 15000 regrouping be enough to overcome the shock? Personally, I doubt it. I even think that in the short and medium term you will have your offer shock, minister, but it will be a zero offer shock. Because what happened in the territories, especially at the level of public housing offices? The boards of directors met and imposed a freeze on their investments. That's the reality! This freeze is not yet visible, since the works ordered last year are in progress: the activity of the building and public works sector has not yet suffered the effects. But in two years' time, I'm telling you a lot of bad things about our building. It's dramatic. I will make a concession to you, Minister: you have introduced a step forward in committee, ensuring that elected representatives of the territory will be present in public limited liability companies; I salute her. But make grouping compulsory, and apply a threshold of 15,000 housing units! Why 15,000, by the way? We don't know. Did a scientist, artificial intelligence, predict that this magical threshold would pass the course of 2017 and its brutal measures? Is this threshold relevant?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u12	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u13	Can he guarantee proximity?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u14	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u15	Our territories are very different from each other; You know that, you're convinced. Some examples have been taken to justify this threshold; We can take more to challenge it. We really need to trust the territories, leave them free. You were talking about liberating; It's the opposite of what you're doing. Above all, in the 21st century, we need – it will talk to everyone – agile structures. It is not always the size that guarantees good management; We are sometimes even able to invest a lot and be effective in small structures. In essence, there are two questions: the question of the creation of housing and the question of its management. With regard to creation, the problem of grouping is that operators – and we cannot blame them – tend to be interested in what is close to their centre, to the point of their organisation where the heritage is most important. This is the reason why they open shops, subsidiaries when they seek to develop their business and expand. When one wants to do more, one seeks to be present in a larger part of the territory; We're not going back. That's why I think you're going in the wrong direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As far as management is concerned, I am not sure that consolidation will bring enormous gains. We will therefore propose that you not impose it, but rather encourage it. Can we trust the donors? I want to tell you, yes. If we want to free and protect, we must trust them and opt for an incentive model, adaptable to the territories; an effective and, above all, equitable model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u17	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u18	I hear a word that does not seem to me to correspond to reality, that of "absorption". Let us avoid shaking scarecrows, for this is not what it is. There are 861 social housing organizations in France. The question arose as to whether there were too many of them and whether an optimal size could be set. Of course, the text provides for some mergers, but in a very anecdotal way. What is called for is that the agencies should come together to develop synergies and pool their resources so as to define a coherent strategy for the development of social housing in the Territory. Your argument, Mr. Bazin, can be reversed. In order to avoid competition between small shops within each structure, it is preferable that there should be groupings – and only groupings – in order to promote, through mutualisation, the coherence of the strategy. I was present at the Congress of the Social Union for Habitat – the USH – in September, where I met the Minister. The atmosphere was tonic! Strong announcements were made that the system's economy could not remain as it stood and should evolve. It is precisely this tonic vision of things that has made it possible to highlight the need, everywhere recognized, to change the HLM world. I have heard some talk about a gap between its national representatives and the base, but with all due respect, I can only smile by hearing our colleague Stéphane Little use of the word "apparatchiks"...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u19	I talked about the bureaucrats! And I'll talk about it again! People who live in HLM without ever living there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u20	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u21	Mr. Little, I am sure you will have the opportunity to express yourself! Please let Mr. Vuilletet speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u22	Like other federations, however, the USH's reactions to the Government have sometimes been strong enough to lend it credit when it ends up building an agreement with the Government. This is indeed a necessity. The challenge is to house all French people throughout the country. Guarantees have been given regarding the territorial location of these structures and the representation of the territories in their governing bodies. We are facing a monumental challenge. This country is experiencing a crisis, a large part of which is due to housing, its cost, the difficulty that people have to live outside social housing, having too little left to live. The challenge is to ensure that the public effort, with scarce public money, is better distributed and more efficient to accommodate all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u23	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u24	Let us avoid the euphemisms: organizations are not "asked" to come together, as our colleague claims. No, the merger is imposed on them! However, I am, in general, rather against forced marriages. That is the point that is really being debated. Moreover, according to the Fondation Abbé Pierre, it is not at all demonstrated that the management costs will be reduced by the reform. This is even the opposite, because today, the middle management costs are higher in large organizations. It is therefore not at all certain that the mergers you want to impose result in a reduction in management costs or rents. On the other hand, they pose the risk of a loss of proximity, as new agencies will be less familiar with tenants' problems. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] Finally, let's not turn around the pot: there will probably also be staff cuts. It is usually the project that lies behind what is called better efficiency. The tenant won't win. We will therefore table amendments against the proposed merger obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u25	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u26	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to respond to what Thibault Bazin has just said. He claimed that the proposed scheme was only the result of the weakening of social donors, which was itself a follow-up to the decisions taken last September. It's not serious! I thank you, Mr Bazin, for confirming your words with a silent acquiescence...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u27	But not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u28	It's sign language!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u29	What's the real question? While nearly 2 million homes are missing in France, are donors ready to take their share of the construction work? Are they ready to participate in this revival of the building, if expected and necessary? For almost ten years, I have been the administrator of a departmental HLM organization with 12,000 housing units, so exsangued that in the last four years no dossier has been able to succeed. By the way, we had been asked to extend the age limit to seventy years so that its president, a communist councillor general, could remain in office... [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This debate reminds me above all of the merger of the water unions a few years ago, when, in order to allow the rehabilitation of the drinking and wastewater systems, we were forced to rationalize things. However, in the present case, these are not mergers, but groupings designed to make the agencies operational in the field. But above all, it is a matter of allowing the construction of these 2 million long-awaited housing units in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u30	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u31	This morning, the debate is getting higher! To avoid starting the day, which looks very long, being unpleasant, I will not comment on some of the arguments. Let's stay calm. For my part, not only did I chair an HLM organization for a long time, but I grouped six into one. I therefore have no problem with the idea of favouring ad hoc groupings. But one principle must prevail: consolidation or fusion must be the result of the will of the organizations and elected representatives of the cities or territories concerned. As has been said, there is no forced marriage that works. On the other hand, as Mr.Mignola said, there is no absolute rule that the size of an organization says something about its effectiveness. That's not true! That's denied by the facts. In order to remain courteous, I will not make the list of organizations of a large size, sometimes far above the threshold of 15,000 dwellings, which, in terms of construction and especially management, are of a notorious inefficiency...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u32	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u33	Remember that an HLM organization is first and foremost an organization that manages housing and owes its tenants the most impeccable service possible. I'm not going to list it, but there are organizations with 50,000, if not 100,000 housing units, that have nothing to do with the territories in which their heritage is located. They have a total abstraction relationship with these territories because, despite all the housing they own, there is no city where they have more than 2000. If that is what you want, I can tell you that the HLM have not finished degrading and the tenants suffer from the incompetence and remoteness of management.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u35	But I believe a lot in proximity. In my experience, and it is probably the same for many colleagues here, the closer the organization is to its tenants and local elected officials, and the greater the demands imposed on it. Size, on the other hand, does not necessarily say anything about an organization's financial capacity. What makes it possible to measure this capacity is the balance between the amortised assets and the recent assets, indicated by the debt ratio and the own funds available for management. The size has nothing to do with it! That, from time to time, there is a need to improve the coherence of the organization in a territory is obvious, and we have done so at home. But this must be done voluntarily. As Thibault Bazin said, and contrary to Bruno Questel's argument, the play includes several acts and some are not yet played. Act I was held during the 2018 Finance Act, when HLM agencies were weakened by deciding to take more than €3 billion in equity over three years. They now have the knee down, so we can move on to act II and force them to regroup. Act III: from grouping to grouping, three or four large holding companies will be formed for the entire national territory; There will be almost no tenants on the agencies' boards of directors, and local elected officials will be placed at a distance from their governance and management. This slope, towards the normalization of HLM housing, is dangerous. Who can say that this grouping is going to be part of the shock of the offer? This would require mayors and territories to be involved. Keep them away from HLM organizations, they will be less able to act in favour of construction. What's more, you need equity and resources, while you're drying them out. It is not all the measures designed to impose on future generations the current debt of HLM organizations through high-balance-sheet loans that will change anything to this fundamental economic rule, according to which when you are taken from own funds; You have less money to build and rehabilitate. It is not a shock of the offer, but a fall of the offer that we are going to attend, and that does not make me happy at all! I'm not putting you on a bad trial. All you have to do is consult all the budgets that were voted in the HLM organizations in December and January. In all these budgets, without any exception, there is a downward revision of the number of rehabilitation operations and new construction sites. These are facts! I do not say this by ideology – contrary to the inspiration of the bill that I find very ideological or, at least, very technocratic – but by pragmatism, and my opinion, which results from my experience on the ground and is very widely shared on these benches: section 25 gives a very bad direction. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Finally, with regard to the Social Union for Housing, to be a member of its Executive Committee for 15 years, I know the house well. By the end of next week, I will also be at the General Assembly of the HLM Offices to be held in Grenoble. I can tell you that the majority of HLM organizations, whether they are public housing offices – OPH – or social housing companies – ESH – are against a decision that has been taken by a few isolated people, having not received a mandate for this – the official HLM national leader I am against – by a bureaucracy that lives many HLMs without ever living there and has not seen them in a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u37	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, no sector of activity – such as industry or tourism – supports any negative signal. But the economic sector that supports it the least is probably the building. Indeed, those who have experience know that between the time a territory decides on a housing operation and the time it is delivered, it flows – when everything goes well – between three and four years. The first actor is the surveyor, then intervenes the architect; follows the whole procedure with calls for tenders, choice of operator, construction and delivery. It all takes three or four years. The local elected representatives know this: the operations that we did not launch in the first year of the mandate escape us. I would therefore not like – and I would like to draw the attention of Mr Mézard, who knows this phenomenon better than anyone else – for this ELAN law to send a negative signal to the sector of economic activity which suffered the most from the 2007-2008 crisis, which took the most time to get out of it and which has only begun, for the last two years, to review the light and to regain hope. Let's say: sending him a negative signal in 2018 would make this mandate a failure in terms of housing, and I do not wish for my country to fail such an important policy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Thibault Bazin and Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applaud]] About 2 million homes are missing in our country, but as my colleague Bazin has pointed out, what is missing today is 1.7 billion euros in the social operators' funds, which were punctured on the occasion of the 2018 finance law. I said this in the general discussion: it is not a question of questioning the excellent Minister Mézard, but in the autumn of 2017, under the leadership of Bercy, the water agencies saw their working capital punctuated to the tune of 1.5 billion euros, and those of the social donors, of 1.7 billion. Although the excellent ministers Mézard, Hulot and Lecornu were then sent to deal with Parliament and to discuss with the operators, the account is no longer there: the money has been siphoned. We are indeed in this situation today because this puncture has taken place. Second element: we discuss various and varied topics every day and night, including Saturday and Sunday. Yesterday, we discussed the architects of the Bâtiments de France, ABF, to conclude that if we had nothing against them, it was not healthy to create monopoly and dominant positions, and to weaken competition. Every day, we see in this Chamber that whenever the various majorities – of good faith and good will – create dominant positions and weaken competition, it turns out to be unhealthy and, ultimately, it is our fellow citizens and our territories who pay for the addition. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] I had the opportunity to hammer it in front of my colleagues in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning and in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and all the mayors know that we are not talking enough about tenants and their daily lives. In front of the social landlord, it's the pot of land against the iron pot. Today, to get the change of a broken light bulb or the erasure of tags, to have the mailbox, the digicode, the door that no longer closes or the trash container that was set on fire, is hell. Why don't you say it in this Chamber? And this hell is relayed not to the social landlord, but to the local deputy mayor or the village mayor...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u40	... who galled next to the tenants to get the graffiti cleaned and the car that burned two months ago, removed from the parking lot. For local elected officials – the mayor or the president of the intercommunality who has some of the city's political powers – the only way to act is to compete. When it has heated well, they can summon the president or director of the social landlord and tell him: in the PLU, the PLH, the PLUI or the SCOT, I have so many rights to build; If you don't put order in the neighborhood and don't take care of the tenants, you won't have any more rights to build. That's the reality! I assure you, eliminating this competition and the demand for results vis-à-vis tenants will lead to a disaster on the ground. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to address you as well as a former local elected representative of this magnificent new region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, whose vice-president delegated to business, employment and economic development. As president of an inter-municipality that houses several public housing offices, and which has carried out several local housing programs, PLH, I managed to convince small municipalities to rehabilitate old barns and engage in the construction of social housing. It was not easy to persuade the municipal councils, but above all, no operator wanted to go there. Having the chance to be mayor of a large city that had a large rental housing stock and lots of land, I called the operators and I told them: it's not complicated, if you want to continue to make housing in the plain and in the big cities, you will rehabilitate so many social housing in the small villages, including the mountains, within the framework of the PLH and the OPH. If I had not had this leverage, minister, these operators would never have gone to small, moderately profitable rehabilitation operations, but so important for the survival of the villages, for the maintenance of young people and schools, for the planning of the territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and MODEM groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] Well, Mr Mézard, two years after my departure, the social housing operators come to the office of my successor, Stéphane Valli, who replaces me at the town hall of Bonneville, to say to him: we are sorry, but we can no longer honour the commitments we made to Mr Saddier, and we will not do this and this operation in the small mountain villages. As my colleagues have pointed out, Little and Bazin, the mechanics are on the way: social operators are already withdrawing from a significant part of the territory. They will no longer take care of tenants, but only of urban areas, i.e. what is profitable. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take this phenomenon into account; Let us ensure, in this text, that there is healthy competition for tenants and for regional planning in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u41	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u42	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Patrick Mignola and Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applaud]] Article 25 is very important because it refers to agility. To come to this Chamber this morning, we could not have all put on the same suit or tailor because we have to adapt to what we are. Similarly, when it comes to housing, one will not imagine that a family with six children should be assigned a studio, and to someone who is alone, a five-room apartment; We adapt to the size of the family. Our territories are diverse families and according to their geography and population, they need a specific, tailor-made response. The difficulty of this Article 25 – which must start from Parliament because it is up to it to make the law – is to give the signal of collective intelligence. Organizations need both to come together and to reduce costs, but also to gain agility and adapt. We have all known in our territories "dodus dormants", these big offices that did nothing, and smaller, more agile entities that acted. As our colleague has said, there is little need for flexibility in this area!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u43	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u44	"Because there are magicians who promise you the moon... I promise you the sun! " says Raymond Devos. It comes from Tourcoing, i.e. from my home – a district that is sorely lacking in housing. Often, when as mayor, I received people who asked me for housing, I replied: I am not a magician and have no magic wand; If I had one, I'd be happy to activate it so that you can have the housing of your dreams as soon as possible. Here I would like to pay tribute to the woman who was my housing assistant, Annick Castelein, a simple woman, who does not appear in the media but who, every day, receives hundreds and hundreds of people who are suffering or in emotional breakdown, who need housing very quickly. It is not a question of pouring into the pathos, but the subject is eminently human and one wonders whether the size of those who need to build is a problem or a solution. We feel that on the way we are taking, there is no miracle recipe, no incantations, no black or white magic; Only good will counts. The issues that come back in our debates this morning refer – do not look at us – to the problems of funding and proximity; That's why I mentioned Annick, because, working in the field, she's a face. She knows her territory as well as the people who ask for housing – which should not be forgotten since they are the first object of our attention. We must also have in mind that our goal is to find intelligence. I'm not saying this one's not here, but it's mostly in our territories. The real question is whether we will collectively be able to trust this intelligence of the territories, which is the only solution. Our miracle recipe is found in our territories, in our elected representatives, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to trust them, those who talk to their landlord every day. I have done great and beautiful things in my commune, with my little means, thanks to an intelligent discussion with small donors. I do not plead for size; I am simply saying that we must respect both the history of each territory, that of the men and women who have done so, that of the donors of this territory and of the dialogues between donors and elected representatives. That's where the solution is. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM and GDR groups]] Of course, it's very complicated, Minister. If we had this miracle solution and the corresponding model, we would have put them in place for a long time. We all agree that we must move forward and move towards the right solution. But of grace, let us respect the virtuous donors and local elected representatives, and above all let us trust their intelligence, the hundreds of Annick Castelein who work in all the communes of the national territory; That is how we will find the right solution to make housing and meet the massive demand and the pressing need of our fellow citizens to live decently and quickly, with controlled costs and burdens. Let's trust the intelligence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u46	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u47	Mr Minister, yesterday there was an important event in this Chamber, since you have agreed, consciously and voluntarily, to step back on the issue of derogations from the Littoral law in the overseas and Corsican regions; You must be congratulated. I am not intervening to defend the overseas, because we are not involved in the regrouping, but I cannot and must not stand in solidarity with what is happening today. Under the pretext of efficiency and competitiveness, you have set up an infernal machine: for example, when implementing large-scale operations, communities and mayors are deprived of the opportunity to get involved in a dynamic of proximity. We felt it; we saw it. You have also driven a real marketing movement of HLM housing, forming private blocks that we are going to sell and on which we are going to speculate; The available examples clearly show that this leads to the degradation of condominiums. Now you are tackling the consolidation of HLM companies, always under the same pretext of efficiency and economic competitiveness. But you completely forget the cultural and social dimension that determines not only the type of housing built, but also the nature of the operators. But you put all the operators in the same bag. For a long time I have chaired an SEM, a mixed economy company: as such, I can testify that the organizations you want to group have been created over time, with different legal statutes corresponding to different proximity objectives. Since we have a little time, I will quote these different legal formulas: public housing offices, public limited companies co-operative housing at moderate rent, social enterprises for housing, mixed-economy societies. Their mission is to develop the territory in a coherent manner in the area of housing. HLM's cooperative public limited liability companies look after those no one wants – the very poor, migrants, families with great social difficulties, civil servants who sleep in their cars, and even in the streets. It is these cooperative structures that deal with purely social actions, for example by restoring an old building or by building housing for the people I have mentioned, in small quantities each time. As these structures manage few housing units, you want to force them to join larger structures: it is extremely dangerous. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the MODEM group. - Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] Say it clearly: your goal in metropolitan France is to create mastodones, which will completely ignore proximity, and will produce housing without taking into account the cultural dimension. Gradually, they will challenge social and cultural emulation in the production of housing in the communes – be it villages or large cities. It is in my opinion a mistake; I invite you to do as you did yesterday, to step back, to avoid the peril that these provisions represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u48	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u49	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Let's talk about article 25, let's not get out of the way. This paper proposes to address the fragmentation observed among some social donors while allowing them to maintain a reasonable territorial anchor. The proposed solution is original: it does not require a merger, contrary to what has been said, but a grouping. These groups may take place in a specific form: public limited liability companies. What are they? I would like to stress this point, because the debates that have taken place in committee, and those that are taking place at this time in public, although very interesting, show that there are still misunderstandings about this. These coordinating societies will be financed by the girl structures, so there will be no top-down hierarchical authority. Thanks to this, local organizations will be able to ensure their role of proximity and social mix – to which we are all very attached. Some may have said that the lack of resources will force some agencies to merge. But we must consider the project as a whole, in its coherence: strengthening the resources of social donors, reforming the rate of Book A, prolonging the stock of debt, enhanced high-balance-sheet loans, etc. In addition, measures will be taken to remove barriers to construction and to remove specific barriers to social housing organisations – OLS.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u50	Now you're the one who's off the line!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u51	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The pooling of social donors will make it possible to operate a system of internal equalization, to pool skills, to have access to better financial tools and to better purchasing conditions. These measures, taken as a whole, will enable the social donors to achieve the objective we have set ourselves: to build more, better and less expensive, in order to remedy the territorial and social inequalities and the housing shortage that we have been experiencing for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u52	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u53	As we begin our consideration of article 25, we must remember that we all recognize the need to build much more social housing. We are fighting so that our citizens can all live in decent conditions. This has already been said: a flexible formula must be found, in order to respect the territorial singularities, agile enough to be close to the ground. With regard to the size of these structures, I believe that we all agree to favour groupings when they are possible. But forcing agencies to regroup presents risks, about which great concerns have arisen. A lot has been said about this, so I will simply sum up the various arguments. First, at the global level, 50% of major group mergers fail after three years. How can we ensure that forced groups succeed in creating value for our fellow citizens? Then, as we have said, the consolidated heritage will be extremely heterogeneous. Finally, the capital of the organizations thus consolidated will be invested as a matter of priority there is a strong value to be created, which is likely to perpetuate the lack of investment in the poor territories, which will increase the gap with the rich territories. The more we gather, the more we move away from the ground; But we need proximity, as my colleague Patrick Mignola has said. Donors must be on the ground because they face fragile populations, who need interlocutors. We must listen, because the success of social housing is also and above all the ability of our citizens to live together. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LR group]] Another important risk is that if you force groups, then staff, in uncertainty about their future, will worry and demobilize. I'm telling you: in my constituency, the management of these organizations is not 100% willing to produce social housing and take care of the personnel under their command. This article is of common sense, but it is absolutely necessary to respect the territorial singularities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u54	Everybody agrees, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u55	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u56	I didn't plan to intervene on this article, but if I finally asked my whip to be able to do it...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u57	If you have the Whip's permission, it's okay: everything is under control in The Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u58	... it's because I don't find myself in the words I've heard, when I've known the HLM world for twenty-five years, having practiced as Director General of several organizations. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Saddier that the amount from HLM resources is not 1.7 billion euros: the 2018 finance law only plans to draw up 800 million euros, which have not yet been taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u59	It'll be soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u60	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Your vision of the HLM world is caricatural: if, for the system to work, the presidents of HLM offices or mayors could summon the general directors of HLM offices, companies and co-operatives, then everyone would do so. As you say on the other hand, if the directors of HLM organizations find themselves forced to restore order in a neighbourhood, it is probably that everyone has abandoned this neighborhood, including the town hall.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u62	[[Same movements]] Secondly, I would like to tell you that the proximity, which everyone is talking about, depends on the ethics of the company, that is, the instructions given to the staff. I can testify to this, I who worked in an office of 10,000 housing units and then in a group of 100,000 housing units. It is not because the chef is in Paris, Nantes or Lyon that the bulbs will not be changed in the common parts of an HLM in Châteauroux, provided that the handlers do their job, and follow the instructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u63	There you go! Wonderful! I can't believe I was being given bad intentions...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u64	You don't know that anyway! When was the last time you went door-to-door in an HLM?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u65	You say that small offices or small HLM companies are the guarantee of proximity. My colleague Stéphane Peu, who brought together six small HLM structures,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u66	But who did great things!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u67	...who did great things when they gathered together,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u68	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u69	... can testify that proximity to the land is not necessarily the guarantee of a high quality of service – as the reports on these structures have shown.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u70	You should talk about what you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u71	The opposition to this article thus bears witness to a certain conservatism. I think that HLM organizations need to come together, not because of section 126 of the 2018 Finance Act – that is, the former section 52 of the Finance Bill – but because of the nature of the financial commitments they are facing, especially those in the untied area. All the leaders of HLM organizations will tell you that this article only precipitates things. Because our country does not have a policy of land use planning, some territories are emptying out: HLM agencies operating in these territories will not be able to maintain their financial resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u72	In fact, they are already gathering together naturally.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u73	I would also like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in HLM organizations, the ethics of leaders as well as their teams, their raison d'être, is proximity. In a given territory, the same works in the agency of a group with its headquarters elsewhere and in the company with its headquarters in the territory. The HLM organization that works in Indre, Creuse and Haute-Vienne belongs to a large group, and it cannot be said that it is not close to its tenants. It is the same for the well-known aquitaine group that intervenes in six departments. Proximity is first of all management and the men who make up the organizations. Some are suing us on the grounds that future groups will be too large, too far from the ground. Do you really believe that today it is the status that makes the quality of service?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u74	Yes! That's what's lived in the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u75	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] No, it is men and women who work in these bodies, regardless of their status. Do not try to make the French believe that the quality of management depends on the address of the body's headquarters!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u76	Yet that's what they can see every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u77	It's their experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u78	HLM co-ordinating companies used to be called HLM co-operatives. It was a way for HLM organizations facing similar problems to come together. In this bill, this formula is referred to as a public limited liability company. What will be found in these SACs? Certainly not the proximity function, but support functions. And as far as I know, tenants don't need to be close to the support functions of HLM organizations! The only reservation I will make – I have already mentioned in the general discussion – concerns HLM organizations that no SAC will want. We will have to work on that. They may be social housing enterprises or HLM offices. It will be up to the Government to take these situations into account. This is the main problem we need to address. But it is not the result of the 2018 finance law: HLM organizations are already confronted with it. The social rental housing guarantee fund is a mutual fund designed to deal with the financial difficulties of the HLM organizations, in order to avoid bankruptcy and the local authorities guaranteeing their loans paying annuities. This caisse has never had so many files: it's good that something is happening in our territory! It is no longer possible to continue as before, refusing to see the financial difficulties of the HLM organizations and their consequences. It is no longer acceptable for politicians to say: let's leave things as they are, let's let others take responsibility for tackling them. I have been an attentive observer and actor of this world for twenty-six years: I have witnessed this lack of courage. Stéphane Peu, with whom we share some analyses although he is in opposition, knows very well that it is always the same organizations that the social rental housing guarantee fund lends assistance. Although these organizations are close to the ground, they are not recovering. Not to mention all the organizations that are, so to speak, in the antechamber of this guarantee fund, and are likely to resort to it in the near future, regardless of the provisions of the last finance law I mentioned. By parenthesis, this reform was expected by everyone in the HLM for at least twenty-five years – since I've heard about it since I've been in this community. Ceding to conservatism, to immobilism, it would be to refuse to see the problems. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Closeness is management. At present, the state and mayors can very well force an HLM agency director to do things; they may also summon the Managing Director of a large HLM group. They will therefore also be able to summon the director of a coordination company, for example, of the four HLM organizations of the same department. Proximity does not depend on the address of the managers, but on how they deal with tenants' requests and the time frame within which they deal with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u79	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u80	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u81	This debate is important. Article 25 deals with an issue that is dominant in all territories. I have listened to each other, I hear the different sensitivities that are expressed, whether they come from the majority or from the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that it would be too easy to oppose, peremptoryly, those who have no knowledge of the ground to those who know it, the latter obviously being in the opposition... We all have our own experiences. As a former local elected official, I know what proximity is; As a former Member of Parliament, I have seen decisions that are not in line with the latter's respect, especially in the last few years – I had the opportunity to talk about it yesterday. But beyond this preliminary remark, I see that we are all talking about the same thing, that is, the best way to improve the situation of tenants and social donors and to meet the needs of social housing in our country. As I have already pointed out, I have sat for a number of years in a departmental office of HLM, and therefore I am well placed to appreciate your experience and your knowledge of the case, Mr.Peu, but, even though I have probably not done as much as you, you are not the only one in this case and I, too, think I know what I am talking about, especially since during my entire career as a lawyer, I have had the opportunity to plead for social housing structures. I come to what I have heard in this debate. Mr. Little, you did not hesitate to say that some large organizations were "of notorious inefficiency."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u82	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u83	I don't dispute it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u84	I can even give the names if you insist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u85	I wouldn't mind, but at least I pay tribute to the way you say things. We do not agree on everything, but on some issues, we can understand each other immediately! You have had very strong words about the bureaucracy at work in the world of social donors. What would I not have heard if I had expressed myself in the same way in the congresses in which I participated! That being said, I shall be obliged to quote them at certain meetings because, basically, you are right, even if you have erroneous consequences for the convention that I have signed. This is indeed the current reality of the world of social donors. I come to you, Mr Saddier, trying to be constructive. You said that the current situation of tenants is "hell."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u87	I take it from your analysis and Mr. Little that what has been going on for years is not right. Moreover, representatives of the majority, in its various forms, made statements along the same lines. In the face of this observation, what do we do? Reminiscence of my professional activity, I inquired about what the candidates were saying, of all sensitivities, in the presidential election – I invite you, both of you, to do the same, because it allows from time to time to put things back in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u88	As far as Macron is concerned, that's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u89	All agreed: the current situation is not good. In those circumstances, if the Government did nothing, he would be accused of his immobilism. But when it does, it's not good either! I have always maintained dialogue with social donors and with the Social Union for Housing, even when it was quite tense, because I think that consultation is the best way forward. On the other hand, I do not systematically endorse the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, but it must be recognised that the description of the world of social housing, which I will not impose on you, is not exceptionally positive. However, for having been elected local, I know the difficulty of the exercise, and like most of you, I consider that we do not necessarily, from Parisian offices, have an exact view of the situation. You all talked about proximity. I do not think, Mr Saddier, that I can be blamed for ignoring its importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u90	I didn't.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u91	Yes, it is. If I wanted the text to contain many provisions in favour of proximity, it was because I have been able to see, in recent years, how unfulfilled it has been. As an elected member of a remote territory, I have experienced this distance that is too often felt, regardless of governments, with regard to decision-making centres – Mr Letchimy knows what it is. I come to some of the questions, concerns, criticisms that you have made. Mr Saddier, you mentioned the concern of the building world. But for having often received representatives of the construction sector, I was able to see that they were in favour of this reform. Maybe they're wrong, but they told me unequivocally, either publicly or in my office. They too have the idea that a restructuring of the social housing sector can only facilitate its development. With regard to this restructuring, I have heard that it would be a matter of imposing mergers in an authoritarian way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u92	Yes! They're mandatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u93	That's not the case. Civilist training, I'm used to being precise. Thus, Mr Letchimy, with regard to cooperative structures, we have found solutions corresponding to the demands of the National Federation of Coop'HLM, and the specific treatment accorded to them has been decided entirely in agreement with it. Do not doubt that Marie-Noëlle Lienemann, who shares your political sensitivity, would never have signed the convention if we were not in harmony with her demands. As for the overseas countries, you yourself have pointed out, they are not concerned – but you are a representative of the nation, and it is therefore natural that you should also speak on the subject. Finally, with regard to the Littoral Act, I have not retreated: I have only maintained, during yesterday's sitting, the position that has always been mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u94	That's good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u95	I'm coming back to the mergers. The only obligation in this area concerns public housing offices in the intercommunities, i.e. in fact fourteen EPCIs and at most forty-five structures. For the others, it is a question of joining groups. It's not the same thing! I want to be clear and that there are no inaccurate interpretations of the restructuring that the Government wishes to carry out. Only grouping, i.e. group membership, is mandatory; not merger. And if I wanted, Mr Saddier, to ensure that proximity was respected, ensuring that at least one HLM organization had its seat in each department, it was not for nothing: such a requirement of proximity applied to the Cantal as much as to the Haute-Savoie. You say competition is necessary. You are right, and I know from experience: two organizations are better than one, the chosen one being able to say to the first one that he prefers to go see the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u96	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u97	In my department, there are two remaining: one will join a grouping – probably with the other three departmental offices in the former Auvergne region – and the other falls under the ESH category. There will therefore be, and fortunately, the maintenance of competition. While concerns are legitimate, we have provided answers: we are making tools available to organizations. That is what I wanted to tell you about the general balance of Article 25. For the rest, the finance law was the expression of the vote of the majority of your assembly. And, I repeat, as far as restructuring is concerned, it will not, apart from the case I have indicated, be compulsory mergers. Mr Lurton, I see that Saint-Malo is a little afraid of Rennes, but you have had enough privateers to keep the fight in good condition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u98	The corsairs are at the king's service; We need pirates!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u99	So I'm not worried about Saint Malo.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u100	We are not afraid, but I do not forget that Saint Malo was a republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u101	You know that the Republic is an accumulation of small republics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u102	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u103	In any event, I am convinced, for having always practiced it, of the need to respect territorial intelligence. If I also wanted to ensure that local authorities were represented in the governance of the groups – perhaps we can further improve this point, Mr.Peu – what was not necessarily obvious at the outset is because I think it is essential. As in other sectors, this is an area in which the responsibility of actors on the ground, including local elected officials, is essential. Many of you have said this: who receives people who are struggling and looking for housing in the field? They are mainly local elected officials. And I don't forget it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u104	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u105	I present a balanced text on this point. We'll see if we can improve it, but the concerns...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u106	We need more openness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u107	Mr. Bazin...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u108	[[Laughs and applause on various benches]] I can't wait to be in the Senate! It's too bad Members don't vote there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u109	[[Smile]] Mr Bazin, I said, with the political and intellectual agility that is yours, you come to the Senate one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u110	I have before me three identical amendments to delete Article 810, 2081 and 2234. On these amendments, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party and by the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of the European People's Party, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 810.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u111	Minister, we all have a knowledge of the ground here. The question is, is it taken into account? During our discussions, only semantic arguments or slogans were used. I have thus heard the very interesting perspective of the construction of 2 million housing units. You yourself have referred to the need to meet housing needs in order to justify the reform, and some of our colleagues have even said that it will help to reduce territorial inequalities. [[Smile]] I sincerely doubt that, at least with respect to the relaxed areas that will be affected by the bill. In these areas, as we know, the small agencies that usually operate there have a much higher rate of tenants receiving personalized housing assistance than in the more affluent, tense areas. As a result, the reform that was implemented at the end of last year has become even more severe: their self-financing capacity has been reduced to nothing. For them, the momentum is broken, if you'll allow me this word game. You say that the bill brings solutions. But what are we talking about? In the most beautiful years, 500,000 housing units are produced in France, and in the best case 25% of them are produced by social housing operators. However, this percentage will fall, since, as our colleague has shown, with the provisions of the last finance law, plus the refocusing of the Pinel scheme and the reduction of the financial quota from 40% to 20% by the zero-rate loan, a deceleration in the rate of construction is taking place within two years. But usually, when housing passes through a difficult pass, what part of the housing sector plays the role of shock absorber? Social donors who, in the years when the number of dwellings produced does not exceed 400,000 units, account for 30% or even 35% of production! That is why, if donors are not allowed to revive the production of social housing, we are in real danger of experiencing difficult futures. In terms of real estate and housing, one question is essential: that of trust. However, it is not on the agenda and, in a number of structures, the boards of directors are concerned. An example, Minister, that of Lunéville, a commune with which you will sign Friday the first contract of the Action "Cœur de ville", at least if we have finished our debates on Wednesday evening – I will not go back to that; I hope, Mr President, that you have convinced the President of the National Assembly to convene the Conference of Presidents. This city with more than 20,000 inhabitants, located in zone 3 and zone C, has only one actor producing collective housing: the OPH. It intervenes as soon as brownfields have to be converted or projects designed to densify the city have to be launched. What did his leaders decide? To freeze all their investment projects, which is damaging when one claims to win back a heart of town. This problem cannot be solved by the grouping societies. Therefore, Minister, I ask you the question: what will be the content of future financial laws in this area? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] And since I understand that we would have to wait a few weeks to get the answer, we propose, in the meantime, to delete Article 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u112	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 2081.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u113	In speaking on the article, I have already presented my arguments justifying its deletion. I'm not going to add any more. However, I am responding to the minister's remark. First of all, I do not forget that the comments we make in the Chamber are public. It was therefore in full consciousness that I made, during the general discussion and then on Article 25, these comments on the Social Housing Union – which is a family that I very much care about. And I will have fewer problems repeating them in the assemblies or in the congresses of the same union than, I repeat, the decision taken by a few presidents of federations only suits a minority of the HLM organizations in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u115	Therefore, they should be careful: when making decisions without having a mandate, it can sometimes play tricks. But this is not the place to go further on the subject. I would just like to point out that of the 4.5 million HLM housing units in our country, half are managed by social housing companies and the other half are run by government agencies, which are almost none owned by cooperatives. Only the Federation of ESH, which thus represents only half of the park, has signed this famous agreement; the Federation of HLM Offices refused to do so. First of all, although an agreement has been signed, it represents only half of the organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u116	That doesn't make much.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u117	Secondly, to return to the proposals made on social housing, I remember, like many others, having participated in the general states of housing, organized in 2010-2011 on the initiative of Thierry Repentin, at the time president of the Social Union for Housing. All the organizations working on the housing issue – from the Abbé Pierre Foundation to the Union nationale de la propriété immobilier through the Fédération française du bâtiment – had then found themselves around a number of proposals intended to be presented to the candidates in the 2012 presidential election. Could we not find in this work, the result of a consensus among the various actors in the sector, measures to renew housing policy? It seems to me that they would be a better source of inspiration than – I use on purpose the most measured words possible – the old antiphonies taken up by some people who, in Bercy or in some offices of the Caisse des dépôts, want to end one of the dimensions of the French social model: the mixed nature – that is, based on a public leg and a private leg – of the economic and social response to the housing crisis. In any case, it is not too late to read the conclusions of those States and, possibly, to draw inspiration from them. They date back to 2011, but many of them could still be usefully implemented in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups]] On the other hand, I don't think, minister – but it's like football, you'll have to review the video to make sure – that I misused the term "merger": I talked about groupings, and I'm making a good difference between the two. But even these groups, in my view, must be conceived on the basis of volunteerism: it is indeed better, as I have done in my territory, to arouse the desire to be together rather than to impose it. It's a way of being in society that always seems to me better than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u118	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2234.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u119	Like our colleague Stéphane Peu, we oppose the method of making these groupings compulsory. First question: will this obligation make the social housing sector more efficient? This was said: the more important organizations are, the more critical their management approach is and the heavier it weighs in their year-end balance sheets. According to the Fondation Abbé Pierre, the management cost reaches its highest level above 12,000 dwellings. Therefore, the idea that it would necessarily be more effective to bring together organizations – I would remind you that everyone manages on average 5620 housing units – has enough to question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u120	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u121	Second question: will this obligation improve the service rendered? I tend to think no, given the importance of proximity in relations with tenants. It is important to be positioned as close to them as possible in order to respond to their concerns. I am therefore not convinced that by creating real monsters, with a wider geographical scope, the service provided to tenants will become more effective. Another point, which has been less discussed, is that this article pushes for the consolidation of municipalities within intercommunalities. We do not agree with this view – which I know is widespread – that the reform of the country's territorial organisation would require a preference for intercommunality at the expense of the municipality. How would an OPH dependent on a municipality, i.e. directly elected persons, be less effectively managed, less bureaucratic than an equivalent office run by intercommunality?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u122	How would he be more so?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u123	It would not necessarily be more so, but the heads of the communes are elected directly. Finally, Article 25 – and even more so the following – tends to aggravate the logic of the commodification of social housing. After compromising the financial balance of the HLM organizations, you force them to merge, then sell their homes, as we will see in the examination of the following articles, and finally to dilute – in whole or in part – in new entities hosting private partners. Such a development poses a risk that the commercialisation of the sector will worsen. Mr Minister, you said earlier that the situation was not satisfactory today: I agree with you. Everyone can see that. But the biggest problem is that between 1999 and 2015, direct state subsidies for social housing in our country have been divided by six, and three, since 2010! In addition, these subsidies were concentrated on the most expensive segment of the sector, i.e. housing financed by the social rental loan, the SLP. In other words, the State's policy on social housing is weakening and, at the same time, it is promoting the commodification of housing. On the one hand, rarity is being organised, particularly in urban centres and in their immediate periphery, and on the other hand, housing is being traded by largely deregulating the sector, leading to rising speculation. This is the biggest concern we have about housing. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned, Mr. Minister, the programmes of candidates for the presidential election. You have certainly read the one that L'Avenir en commun and Jean-Luc Mélenchon devoted to housing. He was planning to catch up and end the scarcity of housing, which involves the construction of 1 million social housing units in five years: that is what we would have done if we had ruled the country. Such a policy would also have been excellent for construction and public works companies, which could thus complete their order books. Similarly, we would have made it possible to restore a stricter regulatory framework to the free market, in particular through the setting of rents, which, as everyone knows, have exploded for some 30 years – which is normal given the commodification of the sector – leading to the increase in family budgets. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] That is the solution we are proposing. On the contrary, Mr Minister, you are proposing to weaken social housing and to increase the commodification of the HLM sector: your policy is therefore really not in the right direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u124	Mrs Christelle Dubos, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these three deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u125	Article 25 provides for the grouping of social donors – we are talking about consolidation rather than merger or absorption, as the minister pointed out. It aims to make the HLM sector stronger and to provide more support to the organizations that build the most. Contrary to what is stated in the summary statement of the amendments, the article in no way obliges all social donors managing less than 15,000 housing units to merge between them; It simply obliges them to join a group, which will allow donors to seek more complex financing and to further pool the sometimes accumulated cash flows. The bill leaves more than two years for social donors to reorganize freely. In this context, they are offered different options, notably through the creation of public limited liability companies. Their regime, which has been approved by the Federation of the OPH, is, in so far as it will leave all their place to the elected as to the diversity of the territories, comparable to that of a cooperative group. You have shared your knowledge of the field; Let me expose mine to you. In addition to the hearings I conducted nationally, I worked with organizations in my constituency, department and region, New Aquitaine. As proof of this, I participated in the return of the round tables organized between January and March in Bordeaux, Limoges and Poitiers, by the HLM Regional Union of New Aquitaine, AROSHA, which brings together thirty-one organizations from the four major families of the HLM movement. This restitution took place on 4 April, the same day that the text was presented to the Council of Ministers: it cannot be said that it is copy-paste! The theme of the meeting was "The place of social housing at the heart of land-use planning". Here are their recommendations: to allow open regulation to take into account territorial realities; Strengthen and expand the missions of HLM organizations to communities; enable communities to carry out their local habitat programs; establish a regional social housing strategy integrated into a spatial planning scheme. Colleagues, I invite you to re-read some of the articles of the bill: it truly meets the expectations of the organizations on the ground and the needs of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u126	Mr. Minister, I imagine the government's opinion is unfavorable?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u127	Disadvantaged opinion, indeed. I'm not going to repeat the argument I developed a few minutes ago; However, I would like, Mr President, to respond to those who support the amendments. Mr Bazin, not to mention the case of Lunéville, which I hope we will visit together soon – but it depends in part on you... (Mr Vincent Thiébaut applauds) – we will, with the mobilization of the funding you know, provide new cities with means that will on the contrary facilitate the construction of social housing. Mr. Little, I didn't say it was you who confused fusion and consolidation. There is no need to reopen the debate: my comment was not addressed to you. On the substance, I have taken good note of your comments, Mr Coquerel, but there is a difference of appreciation between us. And when I talked about the presidential programs, I wasn't focusing on your movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u128	All right? You should have: he was interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u129	Rather, I was targeting those presented by the two parties that had previously governed the country. You sign up for a certain logic, which is clearly not the same as ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u130	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u131	Beyond that, if I express an unfavorable opinion on these deletion amendments, it is that, according to our own logic, we must make progress in restructuring. There's one point I didn't mention earlier. It's like it doesn't exist. It is said that there is a financial problem, that the Government, through the finance law, has punctuated the social donors – I will not relaunch the debate on the conclusions of the Court of Auditors' report – but we forget that, in comparison, we have given them important resources. I attended the launch of the Bank of the Territories by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations a few days ago; the EUR 10 billion that will be passed, even if it will be largely through loans – I am thinking in particular of the EUR 2 billion of high-balance sheet loans – this is not nothing, as is the extension of repayment periods! We must therefore also take into account the fact that we are providing important resources to facilitate these operations. [[Smile]] It was argued that these groupings would be too brutal. I hear what Mr. Little says about forced marriages, but finally... Three years ago to be able to love each other; It makes engagements of a duration still relatively long! Moreover, many structures have not waited for this piece of legislation to start working in this direction – for some, indeed, through mergers. This has been anticipated for several months, sometimes even before the presidential election, because the opportunity to carry out such groupings, without any break in the relationship of proximity, is something that is recognized by many. I recognize, Mr Little, that a number of offices are not in favour of reform. If I supported the opposite, you would be entitled to consider that my assessment of things is incorrect. However, there are others who have already joined this process. There are differences of opinion on this point, because some local and regional authorities do not have the same orientation as we do – and that is quite normal. That is what I meant by expressing an unfavourable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u132	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u133	Three points. First of all, I want to thank you, Minister, for this is the first time that you have recognized that a number of offices do not agree with these groupings. For my part, I think there are even more of them than you imagine. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM, FI and GDR groups as well as non-attached Members]] Then, your freedom to visit Lunéville next week with our excellent colleague Thibault Bazin certainly depends a little on us, but, as we said last night, it is not our fault that we are suffering the consequences of the current organisation of parliamentary work. After having had two months, at the beginning of the year, during which we have not had any major plans to examine, everything comes together at once: agriculture, housing, vocational training and apprenticeship – which the Committee on Social Affairs, of which I am a member, discussed this week – as well as the budgetary missions, which meet at the same time as the public sitting on weekdays. I don't think it's a good working method. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the rapporteur, it is true that the text does not oblige social housing organisations to merge, that it simply encourages them to regroup, but I am convinced that this is only a first step, and that once it is completed, we will proceed to the next stage, namely the real merger, to the detriment of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u134	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u135	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u136	Minister, on several occasions you have referred to the protocol you signed with some of the HLM organizations and have quoted Ms. Lienemann. Be aware that we are respectful of the protocols that you sign, but that we keep our independence – me and the New Left Group in particular – on such an essential issue. That said, I've reread the protocol. It's not as radical as your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u137	[[Smile]] I'm radical, I'm assuming it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u138	What I mean is that the semantics used are protocol semantics. But this is a piece of legislation and, given the philosophical context in which it fits, it is obvious that you have used legal terms that have nothing to do with the protocol. Of course, the rapporteur, there is no obligation to merge; We are all aware that you are not legally planning this, apart from the particular case mentioned by the Minister. But if you force companies with less than 15,000 housing units to join a grouping, and you create the legal conditions for this grouping to take place, it will of course benefit the larger and the stronger. At the same time, there is a clear will to implement very large housing construction programmes. What we say in the opposition is that the momentum that will be launched in this way will lead to the decline of the strategies for the recovery of areas in degradation, in rural areas and in abandoned areas. I will take only one example: when an OPAH, a planned habitat improvement operation, is launched, one can do both restoration, restructuring, commercial revitalization and also small programs of four, five or six housing units in hollow teeth. This requires a close relationship that, in my view, a large group will never be able to have. That is why I believe that it is absolutely necessary to rework this article and that the New Left Group will vote in favour of the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u139	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u140	Before the public vote, I would like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. As I explained earlier, we consider that Article 25 is in the right direction, with regard to the desire to bring together HLM offices or other social providers to make them stronger. However, it takes insufficient account of proximity and territorial singularities. To delete the article would be inconceivable, when we are confident that our strength of conviction and persuasion will be likely to evolve in the right direction, so that the territorial disparities are taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u141	Don't do that, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u142	We will therefore endeavour, in the course of the debate, to integrate local consciousness into the direction envisaged by the Government, and we will not join in the request for the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u143	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u144	[[Smile]] So this is an abstention?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u145	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor. We shall then proceed to the first ballot in the morning, after forty hours of discussion on the principle of rule 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u146	On behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents, I want to say that we are on the right track, but there is still progress to be made to better take into account the intelligence of local elected officials and to devise a model that can ensure a form of territorial plasticity. We will therefore abstain from voting on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u147	It's better than nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u148	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 810, 2081 and 2234.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u149	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2633.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u150	As long as the rule is maintained, every effort should be made, as previous speakers had said, to improve the operative part. That is why our amendment tends to incorporate into the strategic heritage plans the consolidation dynamics provided for in the text. It is in fact by modifying the strategic plans of heritage that we can, in the long term, take into account the issues of proximity, by examining how an organization can work in relation to the commune, the department and the region, to take account of local peculiarities, so that the heritage plan does not respond to a logic exclusively of massification, without respecting the diversity of cultural, social and economic issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u152	Unlike the strategic framework, which will be developed at the group level, each HLM organization's strategic heritage plan needs to be sufficiently specific. It is therefore important that it continue to define the medium- and long-term evolutions of the various components of the park of the organization, taking into account the orientations set by the local habitat programmes of the different territories. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u153	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2634.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u154	The aim of this amendment is to enable HLM organisations to set up public limited liability co-ordination companies, in order to avoid social donors who have already regrouped within public limited liability housing companies with moderate rents from artificial restructurings, to the detriment of efficiency in co-ordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u156	The consequence of this amendment would be to allow any ESH to receive special approval to exercise the competence of an SAC. This is what is required by some large HSEs, such as the CDC Habitat, who want to work within HPOs. We have studied this request carefully since the examination of the text in committee, and it has appeared that such a mechanism would pose a number of problems. On the one hand, the SACs are not intended to manage housing directly, on the other hand, the ESHs. If this were the case, there would be a risk that all CASs would apply for special accreditation to manage housing and that in the end, there would be more managing agencies of social organizations than before. That's not our goal. On the other hand, such a scheme does not guarantee the participation of all SAC shareholders in the governance of the company. This would be particularly problematic if the ESH or SAC took decisions on financial solidarity without the relevant OPH being a member of its board of directors. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u158	Disadvantaged too. I understand the request that is made here, and see from which source it comes; but the management of an HLM SA and that of an SAC appears incompatible. I therefore do not believe that the amendment is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u159	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u160	This amendment is intended to insert the words "or acquired" in paragraph 5 after the second occurrence of the word "built". It is necessary to take into account the totality of the investment efforts made by social donors, both in terms of new housing construction and in terms of the acquisition of housing. In fact, social donors regularly carry out acquisitions within the framework of the VEFA – sale in the future state of completion – and the dwellings thus acquired contribute as much to the achievement of the objectives of the lessor as those which are directly built. I'll even go further. At the beginning of our discussions, we talked about major operations. When an operator is asked to make a social mix, it is also set a target of 20 to 30% of assisted housing. The elected representatives then ask the promoter to organize a VEFA for the lessor. In complex transactions, this type of sale is indeed the best way to introduce social mix; That is why this amendment, tabled on the initiative of Mr Leclerc, has been tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u162	The opportunity to dissolve a small HLM agency must be based on a recent activity in the production of a new supply of social rental housing. This can be achieved through construction or the acquisition and improvement of housing. Throughout the construction and housing code, the term "built" refers to these two modes of production. The amendment seems to me to be satisfied, and I suggest that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u163	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Bazin?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u164	Yes, Mr. Chair: the record of the sitting will inform the interpretation that may be made of this Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u165	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to support Amendment No. 1993.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u166	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u168	As drafted, this amendment goes far beyond the mere question of housing accessible to persons with disabilities. It would delete all the paragraphs relating to the obligation to consolidate HLM organizations and the establishment of coordinating societies. However, it raises a real issue: the number of social housing units accessible to persons with disabilities is too low; But this question, I believe, is more a matter of the social utility convention – CUS – of each HLM organization. As for access to suitable social housing for persons with disabilities or in loss of autonomy, more documents define the housing allocation policy. In particular, the inter-communal agreement on attribution established by the Equality and Citizenship Act will have to deal with this issue, in so far as persons with disabilities are a priority for the allocation of housing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u169	I have before me three amendments, Nos 737, 2635 and 2903, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2635 and 2903 are identical. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 737.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u170	With Mr Herbillon, I propose, through this amendment, that the original version of the text be reinstated. Social housing organisations may take the form of a public limited company governed by the Commercial Code. Consisting of shareholders who may belong to the private and public sectors, a public limited company must maintain autonomy, regulated by the commercial code and not that of construction and housing. Therefore, the current wording of article 25 could prove unconstitutional. The concept of "significant influence", defined in the Commercial Code, allows both to meet the objective of grouping the bodies included in the bill, while respecting more the legal status of public limited liability companies. We therefore propose to insert in paragraph 16 the following words: "where one of them or another company exercises a significant influence over the other within the meaning of L. 233-17-2 of the same code, or".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u171	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2635.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u172	This amendment, tabled in committee at the initiative of Mr Pupponi, had been withdrawn, as the committee seemed to have been sensitive to it. It was therefore a question of reworking our arguments. In order to avoid, when small companies come together with medium-sized or very large companies, a merger that you say you do not want, we believe it is appropriate to complete the definition of the HLM group within the meaning of the commercial code by incorporating the concept of "significant influence". Companies that already hold more than 20% of voting rights could thus participate in the financial and operational policy decisions of the new structure through the coordination tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u173	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 2903.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u174	You know, Minister, the commitment of our colleague Sermier in the Federation of Local Public Enterprises – EPL. In his view, it is very important to consider the SEMs as part of a group when they hold 20% of the shares. The concept of control, as you know, involves the holding by the parent company of more than half of the capital of the social providers, which is incompatible with the status of the SEMs, which must not be excluded from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u176	The notions, a little technical, of control of one company over another through a majority stake in capital or a significant influence – holding at least 20% of the capital – are not the same. The aim is to encourage the creation of integrated groups, in which a parent company effectively controls the other HLM bodies in terms of strategic orientation and mutualisation. The provisions of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, under which the capital of a SEM must be held at more than 50% by the local authorities, do not prevent SEMs from belonging to a commercial group. In addition, a parent company of a group of social donors may control the SEM if it is part of a shareholder agreement with a community, or if it holds more than 40% of the voting rights at the general meeting without a community holding more than 50% of the capital on its own. Unfavorable opinion on all the amendments, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u178	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u179	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 498, 893, 1829 and 2058. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 498.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u180	Article 25 provides for the restructuring of the organisation of social housing by promoting the consolidation of HLM bodies, in particular through the establishment of coordination societies. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that these groupings are exclusive, in other words, that it is not possible to belong to two groupings or to make the reorganization that this bill and the territories call for unreadable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u181	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 893.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u182	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u183	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1829.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u184	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u185	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2058.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u186	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u188	Membership in several integrated trade groups is already legally impossible. We must also ban, I believe, membership in several CASs because of the responsibility that the bill gives to parent companies for financial solidarity and strategic direction. That is why I tabled, in paragraph 26, an amendment to prohibit an HLM organization from simultaneously belonging to several SACs. These amendments will therefore be largely satisfied, with one exception: simultaneous membership of a group and a SAC. This membership could be useful in certain specific cases, provided that specific adaptations are made. Let's not close doors: let's put as many tools as possible at the disposal of social donors. I therefore suggest that these amendments be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u190	Same notice: request for withdrawal. The amendment which the rapporteur will be defending earlier is in fact in line with the objective pursued here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u191	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u192	My amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u193	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u194	Mine, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u195	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u196	Withdrawn, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u197	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u198	I, for my part, maintain my amendment. I have heard what the rapporteur has said, but we must not confuse the groups with the coordinating societies: these are two different things. However, the identical amendments, among which my own will be the only one maintained – a sign of my resilience (Sorry) – are aimed at groups, not coordination societies. It is a question of making it impossible to belong to several groups: I could develop the explanations if my speaking time was longer, but the possibility given here opens the door to filialisations by national companies and takeovers, in the territories, by important subsidiaries. In any event, groups and coordinating societies are distinguished in the bill. I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u199	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1253 and 2059. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 1253.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u200	This amendment was tabled on the initiative of my colleague Valérie Lacroute, who is concerned about the status of the staff of the merged bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u201	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2059.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u202	There are three great forgotten in the bill: local elected officials – we talked a little bit about it – tenants – we will talk about it – but also staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u203	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u204	My amendment therefore concerns the place of staff in the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u206	In committee, however, we have adopted a number of amendments to involve local elected officials and tenants in governance. The opinion is therefore in favour of this openness to staff representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u208	Same opinion, favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u209	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1348.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u210	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u212	Disadvantage: the issue is more a matter of organizational autonomy for each group. It will establish its governance rules in its statutes, depending on its size and degree of integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u213	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1704 and 2350. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1704.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u214	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u215	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 2350.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u216	Our amendment aims to make it mandatory for tenants to be informed beforehand when setting up a group of social housing organisations. As we know, such an operation has an impact on the daily lives of tenants, who sometimes see the name of the lessor change. The place where they can address their possible claims will also change, I suppose. Without repeating the arguments put forward earlier, I still think that it will keep the tenant away from the person responsible for the maintenance of the building. The least we can do under these conditions is to do an information work. If this is not the case, we will see the distance between the lessor and the lessee widen further. The lessor will receive information from which he will not understand the origin. He will no longer know who to speak to, especially since the name of the organization will probably change as well without knowing why. We would not understand that this common-sense amendment is being rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u218	As I said a moment ago, in committee we have improved the information and participation of tenants in the restructuring movement. Two amendments were adopted to ensure the presence of tenants' representatives in the governance of SACs, and to require donors to inform them in the event of a merger. I would also like to point out that a grouping does not necessarily mean the disappearance of the HLM organization on a territory-wide basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u219	We'll see about that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u220	In these circumstances, the guarantees provided for seem sufficient. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u222	Unfavorable opinion. Each agency can naturally inform tenants. There is no difficulty in this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u223	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u224	I do not understand this absence of parallelism of forms. We cannot, on the one hand, force organizations to come together and, on the other hand, leave it to the goodwill of these organizations to warn the tenants – not the representatives of the tenants, of which we know, alas! They are sometimes relatively unrepresentative and have limited means of informing tenants. Let us not forget that the basis of everything is the citizen, the tenant, who pays rent every month and is entitled to know the developments in progress. Our colleague Stéphane Peu spoke earlier of a bureaucracy, that is, of a distance between the tenant and the one who manages a public good. All this cannot be left to the good will of organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u225	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u226	In reality, we know that there is a total darkness, a very strong distance from the tenant, who can suddenly discover that an organization to which he has paid rent for years is no longer the same. This is a fundamental issue which, beyond the relevance of the amendment, aims to make reality that, in these public and collective bodies, the tenant must remain an actor. Without this, one installs once again an element of remoteness, while decisions are taken supposedly on behalf of or in the presence of the tenants' representatives. These, I repeat, are completely dispossessed, sometimes except for a small window at the entrance to the buildings, where they can put up a poster from time to time. This is not serious! This amendment would create a logical obligation to explain the stakes of a development to tenants, for example by inviting them to information meetings. This would encourage citizens to be active, to speak to their managers without waiting for things to deteriorate, for a crisis to reveal the mismanagement of a building. I therefore do not understand why this amendment is rejected in such a way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u227	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u228	We will vote on these amendments, because your answers, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, show a contradiction. You could have said that this is a matter of regulation, but not that tenants will be informed. To create the offer shock you are looking for, you are proposing an out-of-standard device, which we are contesting, we have said on several occasions. You do not know the people who are inside these sets, who will be the object, and their apartments with, a very important mutation. They may find themselves destabilized, fear rent changes, displacement or commercialization. When this text comes into effect, everyone will be afraid to see their apartment sold and to have to leave the place. So there is a need for serenity, and you answer: "no information, it's already planned." Minister, if I may, on this issue, you should be wise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u229	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u230	These are amendments of common sense. We can only live together if all actors talk and trust each other. When you work primarily for the tenants, the inhabitants, you cannot not not include them in a minimum of daily communication. We will vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u231	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u232	[[Applause on many benches]] In the light of these arguments, we will give a favourable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u233	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u234	[[Same movements]] When I read the excellent sheet at my disposal, I asked myself the same questions as you. The Government would therefore also give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u235	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u236	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1705.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u237	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u238	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u239	Unfavorable opinion. Through an amendment adopted in committee, tenant representatives will participate in group governance. As a result, they will be involved in the development and validation of strategic heritage plans – PSP. However, giving them the right to veto the validation of these documents would be disproportionate to their representativeness on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u240	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1706.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u241	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u242	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 894, 1864 and 2067. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 894.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u243	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u244	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1864.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u245	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify what is involved in this bill as an implicit paradox, omission or expression or intention. Article 25, which defines the content of the social utility policy framework, should promote access to accessible housing for persons with disabilities. The purpose of this amendment is to indicate this because, as we know, the world of disability has been particularly surprised by certain initiatives in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u246	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2067.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u247	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u249	These amendments raise a real subject, which we mentioned recently. The number of social housing units accessible to persons with disabilities is too low. However, this issue is more a matter of the social utility convention and the PSP of each HLM organization. The committee calls for the amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u251	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u252	Mr Bazin, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u253	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u254	Is the same true for Mr. Fuchs and Mr. Little?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u255	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u256	I'm holding him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u257	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2061. On this amendment, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u258	I asked for a public vote on this amendment, because the bill – but we're here to make it evolve – gives too little room to users, tenants, in the governance of organizations. The HLM sector, with a hundred and twenty years of history, both fulfils a mission of general interest and is part of the social economy and solidarity by its functioning, in that it is co-managed by professionals and by stakeholders in governance. It must be more effective tomorrow, with the inclusion of tenants, which I hope will be further strengthened in the future. This amendment therefore provides for the integration of tenants into the deliberative bodies of the regrouping companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u260	This amendment seems to me to be entirely satisfied with paragraph 28 of the committee's text. An amendment adopted in committee provided for representatives of tenants to be present on the boards of directors or supervisory boards of each coordinating company. In addition, representatives of tenants are already present in the governance of the ESH of group heads. So I suggest you, Mr. Little, withdraw your amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u262	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u263	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u264	I maintain this amendment. Engaging tenants, for example in the development of strategic heritage plans, is now optional. However, it is the tenants who are the first concerned, it is those who live every day in the buildings that need to be renovated, rehabilitated or not. Tenants must be able to give their views, including on work schedules. It seems to me a bad policy not to hold them accountable, by involving them as closely as possible. We would have everything to gain from involving them more closely and in a manner recognized by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u265	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u266	Minister, this question requires a more precise answer from you. The tenants participate well in the structures of the HLM companies, but this is about the overall organization of the groupings. Will the tenants, yes or no, necessarily be present in the bodies of these coordination structures? If they are not there or if their presence depends on the goodwill of the successive presidents or the organisation, Mr Little is absolutely right. Given the magnitude of the governance issue, as the Minister has said, every effort must be made to improve community governance. [[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] Community governance is not only political governance, democratic governance across municipalities, but also internal governance. I can testify to the importance of the presence of tenants in coordinating bodies. Personally, Minister, I would have advised you to accept the mandatory presence of tenants in these proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u267	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u268	Paragraph 28 of the text provides that "the board of directors, the supervisory board or the deliberative body in the place of the coordinating society shall include representatives of tenants of dwellings belonging to its shareholder bodies, elected in accordance with the provisions common to public bodies and to public limited-cost housing companies provided for in the 3° of the I of Article L. 422-2-1. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u269	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u270	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2061.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u271	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2062.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u272	From my point of view, as I said, what characterizes the social housing sector is its membership in the social and solidarity economy – third sector of the economy, between the public and private sectors. For good management of the social and solidarity economy sector, users – for housing, tenants – should make up at least one third of the representatives in management bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u274	Giving one third of the seats to tenants' associations, while they have an average of only 15 per cent of the seats on the boards of directors of the ESH and the OPH, seems excessive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u275	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2638.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u276	This amendment is intended, by adding a paragraph after paragraph 23, to avoid artificial restructuring, to the detriment of coordination efficiency, which is desired both by this Act and by the social housing sector, to social donors who have already joined together in public limited-liability housing companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u278	This amendment goes hand in hand with your previous amendment No 2634, which was intended to allow an ESH to be part of an SAC. I am against this amendment for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u279	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2063.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u280	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u282	The purpose of your amendment is to make optional the presence of representatives of the SAC on the boards of directors of each of its shareholders, without deliberative means. Since this presence must be systematic, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u283	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 1844.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u284	This amendment allows for coordination of the presence of communities and tenants on the boards of directors of CASs, by increasing the maximum number of board members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u285	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 2872.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u286	As I mentioned earlier, it is a matter of prohibiting the simultaneous membership of an HLM organization to two SACs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u288	This is an important amendment to which the Government supports. It is intended to prohibit membership in several coordinating societies, which seems obvious but requires explicit clarification. As soon as an organization belongs to several CASs, its commitments to each other are no longer clearly defined, and the strategies set by either organization are not necessarily compatible. It therefore seems to me a measure of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u289	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1708.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u290	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u292	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u293	He's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u294	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2236 and 2064, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 2236, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2236.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u295	We asked for a public vote because we were not fully satisfied with the rapporteur's earlier reply to our excellent colleague Stéphane Little on the same subject. I did not understand the reasons for this answer. It is clear from this article that certain bodies are increasingly being given more weight through consolidations or mergers. It seems important to us that the weight of tenants, including their representative associations – which now have about 15 to 20% of the seats in the various HLM organisations – be strengthened. This is important for promoting rental democracy. As Alexis Corbière said about the information of tenants – and I am pleased that the amendment to that effect has been adopted – the voices of tenants need to be heard more and more. In my constituency, the tenants of social housing are unhappy, for good reasons, with this or that equipment – lifts in a breakdown, kindergartens in a deplorable state to name but a few examples. We all know that. But, strangely enough, often, the only way to make their voice heard is to act ourselves, in our capacity as Members. If it is normal for us to do so, the difficulties they themselves face in making themselves heard are not. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Giving more weight to tenant associations would allow these issues to be heard at the level of the bodies thus created. We therefore request that the representation of tenants' associations should reach one third of the number of seats in each associated organization. I would point out that this proposal comes from the National Housing Confederation, which we have met, which I hope will be an additional argument to convince you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u296	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2064.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u297	I have previously defended an amendment along the same lines; I could have refrained from doing it again. However, the rapporteur replied that it was excessive to increase the representation of tenants' associations from 15 to 20 % of the number of seats today to a third. I want to answer that 15 to 20 percent is not enough. The majority of tenants would be excessive, but a third of the seats seem to me to be balanced to give them an increased role, since they are the first to be affected by the actions of the bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u299	If I fail to re-explain, I will give an unfavorable opinion, as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u300	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u301	Excuse me, Madam rapporteur, but I did not understand your explanation. I wish you'd reformulated it. As you can see, we are trying to convince you, hoping to change your point of view, because that is the type of amendment on which we should reach consensus. Stéphane Little recalled, the first ones concerned with social housing are obviously the tenants. I cannot understand why you do not want to give them the opportunity to be heard better, to weigh more in the balance of forces – if I may – within these organizations. You keep telling us that there is a need for more participatory democracy, more modernity, but you are refusing an amendment that aims to make associations more heard and to improve things in the bodies you create. For I will point out to you that, very often, their demands go in the right direction; It is they who are the first to suffer the difficulties. I find it difficult to understand that your only answer is, once again, an unfavorable opinion. I ask you and the Government, as you had the wisdom to do earlier on the amendment to inform tenants before any merger, to think carefully. A third-party representation is really not an exaggeration to allow them to weigh more. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that if the Government does not do so, your individual vote will do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u302	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u303	I find that your amendments are not precise. You refer to deliberative bodies, but what is a deliberative body? It seems to me that this could be clarified by regulation. Do tenant representatives have an advisory voice? Can they require, for example, the recording of exchanges in the minutes of these meetings? I understand the meaning of this amendment, but it would seem to me much more sensible to work through regulation; This would make it possible to act more accurately and effectively to get what you are asking for. I am embarrassed by the too general nature of the terms "delegating bodies". Paragraph 28 is much more precise, which refers to the board of directors, the supervisory board and the deliberative body in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u304	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u305	I do not know what the Government will decide on the representation of tenants in the consultative bodies – which, moreover, are regulated by decree – but perhaps tomorrow, SAC will have a local consultative body. It is not for the Parliament to deliberate it, but for the Government alone. This would give more weight to Mr Mattei's comment on the imprecise nature of the amendments: they are imprecise because the matter falls within the regulatory sphere. You could wear this, Minister, in order to create local consultation bodies in the SACs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u306	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] I will go in the direction of Messrs. Not much, Corbière and Jolivet. I will introduce an amendment to Article 28, which calls for the increased presence of tenants on the boards of directors. We talk a lot about the role of elected officials, who are familiar with the planning of the territory, of which I am sure, but the tenants have an incomparable experience of everyday life, of proximity – it is the elected of a board of directors, who chairs several commissions on proximity, which tells you so. If elected tenants are not present, no one will have this exceptional knowledge of what is happening daily in the buildings. I am therefore, too, very much in favour of strengthening the presence of tenant representatives. Some have proposed one third of the seats; For my part, I'll propose a quarter. There is more than a need to strengthen the presence of tenants on boards of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u308	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u309	If you reserve a third of the seats to the tenants, who are you withdrawing? The elected officials, the staff representatives?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u310	No, not the elected ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u311	Qualified personalities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u312	The deliberative bodies have been defined by an amendment from the committee, introduced in paragraph 28, which I have read to you earlier. The opinion remains unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u313	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2236.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u314	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1707.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u315	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u317	That's a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u318	[[Smile]] If I'd known, I'd have been a little more telling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u319	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 2825.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u320	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u321	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1346.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u322	Together with my colleague Stéphane Viry, we propose to delete paragraph 36. It is essential, in our view, to free public limited liability companies from financial responsibility in solidarity. Such an obligation could have a negative impact on consolidation projects. It might be possible to imagine groupings beyond the departments, which might have some relevance, but this financial responsibility is a hindrance. In my region, I will cite examples of public housing offices at the level of the Lorrain Sillon, in the territories of the metropolises of Greater Nancy and Metz, the agglomerations of Épinal, Saint-Dié-des-Vosges, and the community of communes of the territories of Lunéville in Baccarat. These offices reflect on the relevance of forming a co-ordinating public limited liability company to define a technical policy, define and implement a purchasing policy, promote a common quality approach or unify information systems. Financial solidarity is a hindrance in this process. I therefore request the deletion of this subparagraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u324	Solidarity within the SAC is inextricably linked to the pooling of resources. SACs must have the same missions as the parent companies of the business groups in this area. As mentioned above, an organization may continue to apply to the Caisse de garantie du logement sociale – CGLLS – in case of serious financial difficulties. The objective of Article 25 is also to seek more direct solutions within the groups. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, while pointing out that the Government's amendment No. 3221 will ease this notion of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u326	I ask that this amendment be withdrawn. I have tabled Amendment No 3221 which, perhaps not entirely but broadly, responds to the concerns that have just been raised. I will make it clear earlier, but very schematicly, it is intended to address concerns expressed about the power of the SAC over its members. The original wording might suggest that the SAC had the power to take all financial solidarity measures when it deemed them necessary. The new wording we will propose always gives it a mission of ensuring the sustainability of the group, but by limiting its scope to the mobilization of the tools available to it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u327	Mr Bazin, is the amendment withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u328	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u329	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 895, 1682, 2066 and 2636. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 895.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u330	This is an appeal amendment to clarify the extent to which the solidarity and reactive contribution of a member of the group to another member in difficulty could be inferred from his contribution to the CGLLS. We talked about it in committee, but we didn't go any further. When one of the organizations in this group finds itself in difficulty, is solidarity achieved at the local level? Where is national solidarity? What happens when a grouping is composed of actors who are all in difficulty, especially in the relaxed areas? We need to be reassured, because they can't pay twice when it goes wrong. A clarification from you on this matter is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u331	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 1682.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u332	When an organisation in a co-ordinating public limited liability company is experiencing a situation of significant financial fragility, it is important to implement a process that allows for the expertise of the difficulties and, where appropriate, the seizure of the CGLLS, in order to develop a protocol which, at the same time, sets out a method and a path of recovery and allows adequate financing to be made available. This amendment describes the role of the various actors concerned in respecting the prerogatives of each, while ensuring that the coordinating public limited liability company remains a guarantor of the collective interest of the cooperating bodies within it. This amendment preserves the role of the CGLLS in the exercise of its function as a vehicle for the solidarity of social housing organisations, while allowing the public limited liability company to play a leading role in resolving the difficulties encountered by the body.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u333	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2066.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u334	This amendment is, of course, a little technical, but it is important, because it deals with a question of principle on financial solidarity between the agencies. Today, a mechanism exists, the CGLLS, which is approaching a mutual against risk. Tomorrow, through the groups and the SACs, this financial solidarity should not be limited to the groups. I do not go into the details of this amendment. During the examination of the text in committee, the Government invited me to withdraw it, indicating that it was going to work on it, which I did in good faith. Where are we now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u335	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2636.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u336	Minister, we are facing a considerable challenge, and I will pay close attention to the content of your amendment. The debate in committee was necessary to enable us to see how solidarity could be played in the SACs. Since not all companies have the same financial health, there is a risk that the merger will take place, despite your will, by absorption. It is important that the mechanics of organizing solidarity, around the solidarity fund, be carried out in the best possible conditions, in order to preserve the uniqueness and the organization that adheres to the global scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u338	These amendments remove from its substance the financial solidarity internal to the group created by this bill, replacing it with the systematic intervention of the professional federation concerned and the CGLLS. The Commission will, of course, continue to be able to be asked when this proves necessary. As in any CGLLS protocol, a three-thirds rule will apply, and internal reorganization efforts will be requested at the same time as assistance from the caisse is paid. The three-thirds rule reads as follows: measures in-house with the agency's efforts through rent policy, accompanying measures by the parent company and shareholders, and the intervention of the CGLLS under the State. The SAC will have a role to play in domestic recovery efforts, but it will not replace the national solidarity guaranteed by the CGLLS. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u339	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u340	We shall return to this question when we consider our amendment No 3221, which provides, in response to the concerns expressed, that there will be no forced solidarity at the local level in the group. The subject had been very legitimately discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We had indicated that we were going to rework it, hence the tabling of Amendment No 3221, which excludes any forced solidarity in the group. As for the CGLLS, it will still exist. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to the adoption of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u341	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3221.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u342	As I have just explained, we have, taking into account the debate in committee and our commitment to rework the subject, tabled this amendment, which is proceeding with an evolution of the text drawing the conclusions of this debate and of the concerns expressed therein, which have also been raised from the ground. This amendment specifies the powers of the SAC to ensure the financial sustainability of the group. In fact, CAS member organizations find themselves less directly financially responsible for the difficulties that one of the other founding donors of CAS may encounter. The aim is to prevent the financial difficulties of one of the members from spreading to others. Our orientation is therefore to remove the mandatory and forced nature of financial solidarity. This responds to the concerns that had been expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u344	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u345	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u346	I sincerely believe you, Minister, and the withdrawal of the phrase "implementing the appropriate mechanisms of internal solidarity of the group" is more in the right direction. The coordinating societies will have their role to imagine, and we need very concrete things. Offices will be in difficulty within two years. You write that they must no longer take "all necessary measures", but only "the necessary measures", so that you limit the scope of the text to the mobilization of the tools they otherwise have. What is a reasonable delay? What are the steps to follow? When do we call on the CGLLS? If local solidarity does not work, we will resume known solidarity, but within what period? In the context of local solidarity, if an actor, who is not necessarily doing very well either, helps another, what will be the impact on his contribution to national solidarity? It is necessary to be precise about these important issues in the law, in order to reassure. In the summary statement of your amendment, you refer to the tools that the coordinating company "is otherwise available". At what stage and when does this solidarity unfold? There should be no double solidarity, which would create contentious situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u347	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u348	In the same spirit, if I understand correctly, minister, you are creating the safeguard plan as it exists for companies in difficulty. The purpose of this amendment is to identify the time limit set out in the law as reasonable in order to restore the financial situation; At that time, and at that time only, it allows financial solidarity between the members. This is what happens when a company or group is experiencing financial difficulties. This is therefore the "Safeguard Plan" amendment for future groupings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u349	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to support Amendment No. 393.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u350	This amendment, together with Nos 395, 396, 398, 399 and 400, pursues the same objective. Article 25 empowers the Ministry of Housing to challenge a social lessor to acquire all or part of the housing of a SEM if it fails to comply with the obligations referred to in the same Article. However, the forced sale of the capital of a SEM or its assets not forming part of the contracted rental unit, as well as the imposition of an acquisition price of the assets and capital, would be disproportionate and unconstitutional to the freedom to undertake and the right of ownership of the shareholders and to the free administration of the territorial authorities. Therefore, these amendments are intended to limit the procedure of forced sale to the assets of the SEM in respect of the contracted rental accommodation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u351	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u352	I share the objective of your amendment, but I would ask you to withdraw it in favour of my amendment No 2556, which goes in the same direction but which is more precise in its wording. It concerns only the SEMs and bodies approved under the Master of Integration Works – I.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u353	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u354	I also ask that this amendment be withdrawn in favour of point 2556, which fully responds to the question raised by your amendment, Mr Sempastous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u355	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u356	I withdraw this amendment, as well as the following.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u357	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 2556.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u358	The aim is to limit the scope of forced sales to only contracted housing units of EMS and MEI-approved organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u359	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 503, 896, 2424 and 2637. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 503.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u360	In order to make fully operational the scheme proposed by the bill, which is consistent with the logic of increasing the size of organizations to pool financial resources according to investment priorities, it is necessary to allow civil real estate companies – SCI – and civil construction companies – SCCV – to acquire social ownership, which allow our modest citizens to become owners, to enjoy the benefits of this mutualization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u361	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 896.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u362	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u363	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 2424.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u364	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u365	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2637.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u366	It aims to include in the scope of the control of works likely to be mutualized within the coordination society the SCI and the CCSV of social ownership.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u367	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2068.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u368	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u369	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 323 and 777. On these amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u370	[[Smile]] It is intended to delete paragraphs 46 to 57, relating to thresholds below which public housing offices will no longer have a stand-alone existence. I have spoken at length on this subject at the beginning of the discussion of article 25. I propose to let them be free to become them because we are for the freedom of peoples to self-determination!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u371	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u372	It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u373	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 777.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u374	We come to the discussion of the fateful paragraphs of article 25. Without having convinced you, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, to delete this one, let us limit at least the scope of it! This is an important subject. If we want to be agile, evolving and adapted in the new world, we must refrain from setting thresholds, which we know are difficult to cross and which induce negative externalities. [[Smile]] Moreover, our discussions tend instead to remove the thresholds – which makes the aforementioned subparagraphs all the more surprising – in order to adapt to the new world. I see that my remarks are bringing the majority back to the House, which is a bit of a concern to me and makes me shorten my remarks! The purpose of this amendment is to remove the provisions of Article 25 requiring social donors to have a minimum threshold of 15,000 housing units. On this figure, we remain unanswered: why 15,000? What is its relevance? We are not without concern. The example of the implementation of solidarity shows that some issues remain outstanding. [[Smile]] We therefore propose to leave our HLM operators free, so that they can organize themselves according to the realities of the territory and determine what is relevant to pooling. Let's trust them! Ladies and gentlemen, let us stand together!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u375	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u376	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u377	The threshold of 15,000 dwellings is the result of a compromise... But the signatories of the amendments do not seem to listen to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u378	We are listening to you, Madam rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u379	This compromise was drawn up with social donors in the framework of the consensus conference on housing. As for public housing offices, article 25 does not oblige them to merge. It only requires them to join the coordination companies in order to pool certain support functions with a view to achieving economies of scale. In addition, it includes a territorial clause to ensure the anchoring of at least one HLM organization or a group of independent HLM organizations per department. The committee's opinion on these identical amendments is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u380	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u381	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u382	I have already spoken at length this morning about the general philosophy of Article 25 and the reasons for its provisions. We have retained the threshold of 15,000 housing units; You're telling me it could be 20,000 or 10,000.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u383	He can!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u384	We're counting on you, Minister! We know your wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u385	[[Smile]] Legendary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u386	You rely very much on me and I thank you, gentlemen! I have participated in many consultations and debates on this subject in recent months, as you know, particularly at the consensus conference.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u387	Or dissension!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u388	Since then, we have seen many positive developments on this subject. However, I would like to point out that these figures are mostly from the world of social donors, but that others, from the same source, are much higher. While one can defend the freedom of everyone to administer freely, there must also be laws in this country; If not, what's the point of writing it? On this subject, we have taken into account, in a fairly balanced manner, the proposals that have been made. Mr. Little did not list organizations that are in great difficulty, I will not list those that propose a threshold of 50,000 housing units. The threshold is balanced. I would remind you that this is not about mergers, but about membership in a group of HLM organizations. We register in numbers and formulate solutions that I think are reasonable in order of magnitude. Without prejudging the evolution of the debate, it seems to me that a threshold of 15,000 dwellings is balanced. As for the thresholds in general, I note that they are the subject of varying opinions based on the bills under review – we will come back to them later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u389	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 323 and 777.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u390	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1106, 1448 and 2581. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 1106.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u391	It is based on the same spirit as the previous ones and can be regarded as defended. Minister, in your wisdom, you have admitted earlier that local elected representatives are at the heart of the functioning of social housing – I repeat what you said here. In fact, you replied earlier to the speakers on the article that the tenants first turn to the mayor when they have a problem, recognizing the central place of the local elected representatives. In addition, building on your perfect knowledge of French territory, you have also demonstrated the veracity of the adage "elected local one day, elected local always", because it is your past as a local elected one that founded it. We have to listen, a little bit, to the local elected representatives present in this Chamber – at least what is left of them. Whatever the benches on which they sit, all those who have ever faced the management of large social rental parks call for the removal of the threshold envisaged. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u392	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1448.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u393	We are concerned that the proposed threshold will distort the relationship between the social lessor, the territory and the occupants of housing. The amendment is intended to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u394	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 2581.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u395	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u397	My arguments are those already opposed to the previous amendments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u398	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u399	Mr Saddier, we are not discussing air quality here, which we mentioned yesterday. I take note of your comments, not without reminding you that the relevant paragraphs relate to groups of HLM organizations. These do not lose proximity but provide tools to better work together. The Board of Directors and the functioning of each structure will remain as it stands. This is a positive development of our initial desire not to destroy all HLM organisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u400	Yes, but for how long?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u401	I fully understand that you raise questions and raise some concerns, of which I do not agree that they are real. However, it seems to me that we are responding with proposals that are all tools available to HLM organizations. As I mentioned earlier, compulsory mergers concern fourteen EPCIs or EFAs, or more. For the rest, we anticipate the obligation to join groups of HLM organizations in order to work together and to pool certain means. However, I would like to point out that the policy of each HLM organization is focused on proximity. The evolution of things, you will tell me, could lead some of them, without their being obliged to do so, to want to merge at all costs, but – as has just been recalled – it is not the law that will oblige them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u402	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u403	The members of the MODEM and related group support the consolidation of HLM offices and their concentration, even by force. However, it will be necessary to ensure that there are no specific singularities or cases. Of course, we will not vote for the same amendments, because we must encourage actors to reach a certain threshold in order to improve their effectiveness. On the other hand, we will be tabling amendments earlier to include specific cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u404	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 975, 976, 1185, 2070, 977, 1683, 322, 2071 and 898, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 322 and 2071 are identical. I call Mr Vincent Ledoux to support Amendment No. 975.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u405	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u406	I call Mr Vincent Ledoux to support Amendment No. 976.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u407	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u408	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 1185.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u409	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u410	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2070.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u411	I shall present Amendments Nos 2070 and 2071 at the same time. I voted for the amendments defended by our colleagues in the group. Republicans seeking to remove any threshold, on the basis of the principle that one does well only what has been decided without constraint. They've been pushed back. [[Smile]] I therefore propose, by amendment No 2070, to adopt a threshold of 5000 dwellings. If it is rejected, 10000, by Amendment No 2071! We can no doubt reach a reasonable path between nothing at all, as our colleagues in the Republican Group were proposing, and 15,000, as you are proposing, minister, by adopting the median of 5000 or 10,000 that I propose to take.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u412	I call Mr Vincent Ledoux to support Amendment No. 977.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u413	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u414	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 1683.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u415	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u416	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u417	Mr Minister, you said earlier that Saint-Malo, a private city capable of defending itself, is afraid of Rennes. I readily admit that this is a corsair city capable of defending itself against the big cities, but also of agreeing with Rennes when it comes to working together, especially for economic reasons, which we are doing very well these days. I am sorry to take a local example, but it is often on the basis of what we know best that we can develop our arguments. Yesterday morning, I opened a new court in Saint-Malo, with Mrs. Keeper of the Seals. If we were able to achieve this, it was because in 2007, at the time of the Dati reform, my predecessor in this House and former mayor of Saint-Malo took the initiative, to maintain a court in this area, of regrouping with another territory with which we had affinities. The aim was to best meet the expectations of the inhabitants. This territory is located in another department: we have created an interdepartmental tribunal. At the beginning of the quinquennium, Ms. Belloubet questioned him somewhat. I have been able to discuss with her and to show her, on many occasions, that this institutional organisation was working well, because it was, I repeat, responding to the aspirations of the inhabitants. It found this yesterday in Saint-Malo and affirmed in its intervention that it did not intend to challenge this tribunal. This type of grouping also exists for hospitals; I imagine that, tomorrow, a similar project would be possible in the same way in Saint-Malo – even if I do not know at all what the municipality of Dinan wants, which after all may want to do quite something else, which I would hear very well. Above all, I hope that the decision will be taken by the local elected representatives. It is when there are affinities between territories, which better meet the expectations of the inhabitants, that these marriages work well. The threshold of 15,000 dwellings is far too high and will prevent this type of effective clustering. We will thus respond much less well to the aspirations of the citizens. I therefore propose that, if you do not delete it as we proposed earlier and leave the territories free of their organisation, you set the threshold at 10000 housing units.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u418	Mr Stéphane Peu has already supported Amendment No 2071. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 898.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u419	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u421	Whether these are thresholds or derogations, unfavourable opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u423	I also express an unfavorable opinion. I hear, but I'm also thinking that if we had set a threshold of 30,000 housing units, you would have tabled amendments to move to 15,000... It's a good war! The debate continues; I explained how we got to that figure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u424	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to support Amendment No. 1992.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u425	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u426	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u427	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u428	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u429	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u430	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 739.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u431	Some small organizations are building a lot. If you force them to regroup, all their energy will be consumed by the regroupings; It will be at the expense of the investments, and the shock of offer that you promise us will not take place. You are therefore proposed to extend the exemption to organizations that have built more than 600 social rental units over the past six years. This would preserve small, effective organisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u432	I call Mrs Sarles to support Amendment No. 2562.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u433	My amendment goes in the same direction; It aims to introduce qualitative rather than quantitative criteria for derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u434	I have before me four amendments, Nos 978, 1364, 979 and 1366, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 978 and 1364 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 979 and 1366. I call Mr Vincent Ledoux to support Amendment No. 978.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u435	Article 28 obliges public housing offices attached to the same intercommunality to merge on 1 January 2021. This amendment by Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde provides for coordination between this obligation and the obligation of grouping provided for in Article 25. We do not want merged agencies to be forced to regroup if they are below the 15,000 dwelling threshold: our public offices would be at risk of being really drowned in future SACs. We therefore propose a specific derogation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u436	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1364.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u437	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u438	I call Mr Vincent Ledoux to support Amendment No. 979.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u439	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u440	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1366.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u441	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u442	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u443	Opinion against all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u444	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u445	I hear these objections. There are, in fact, some of the 14 EPCIs or EFAs involved in the compulsory merger, which are in this situation. At the moment, I have an unfavorable opinion, but we are looking for a technical solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u446	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1052.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u447	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u448	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1053.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u449	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u450	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 324, 899 and 2639. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u451	The purpose of this amendment is to exclude from the requirement to belong to a group organizations that manage only housing households, which are not social rental housing. As such, they do not fall within the scope of the objectives of this Article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u452	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 899.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u453	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u454	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2639.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u455	Mr. Minister said earlier that steps would be taken – I assume he is referring to the Government's amendment that we will be discussing earlier – to exclude HLM housing-only home-owners from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u456	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u457	These HLM organizations face the same problems as others; Their merger into groups will also increase their ability to manage complex projects, and they will benefit from financial pooling. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u458	This answer is in contradiction with the Minister's words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u459	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to support Amendment No. 2374.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u460	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u461	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2072.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u462	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u463	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2073.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u464	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u465	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1130.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u466	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u467	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 540.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u468	I see you already smiling, Minister... The traditions of the National Assembly would not be respected if the mountain did not introduce amendments! We will see what gives birth to the mountain – we will at least have prepared the ground for discussion at the Palais du Luxembourg. This amendment aims, for reasons on which I do not come back – but I assure you of our constant and persistent good faith – to create an exception by opening the possibility, for the departments in which at least one municipality is located in mountain areas, of forming two groups of social housing organisations. In these departments, the effects of the valley are very marked: there are areas, in the valley bottom, where it is rather easy to build, despite strong climatic and topographic constraints – this is where the few large cities are located; There are other areas, on the hillsides, where small villages are often abandoned – by mobile telephony, fibre optics, transport... The risk is that these villages will be further abandoned if there is no more competition between the agencies. [[Smile]] I will then present you with an amendment of withdrawal, in the event – which I dare not consider – that it would be refused.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u469	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u470	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u471	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u472	[[Smile]] You're stubborn, Mr. Saddier, and that's a virtue. I do, however, express an unfavorable opinion. I do not resist the pleasure of reminding you that the mountain, like the rest of our territories, is diverse; Sometimes rich, sometimes poor. More seriously, I reiterate that the mechanism we are proposing to you does not prevent competition or the coexistence of two bodies. I hear your concerns, but they do not have to be today: this competition, that is, the possibility for local and regional authorities to resort to different structures of social donors, does not disappear with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u473	I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 539.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u474	It is true that there are two types of mountain areas, Mr.Minister, but the so-called "rich" mountain is not so much since the establishment of the National Fund for Equalization of Intercommunal and Communal Resources, the FPIC, and the decline in allocations. We've lost a lot of weight! Few parliamentarians know that of the three leading departments, two are in mountain areas: Savoie and Haute-Savoie, of which 100% of the municipalities are contributing to the FPIC. Of my two amendments that may inspire you from now on to the shuttle and feed the work of our fellow senators, the first one is mandatory; the second offers the prefect the possibility to authorize two bodies on a case-by-case basis in the mountain departments. This one, keep it because it can be useful to you by the end of the shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u475	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u476	I recall that 48 out of 101 departments have at least one municipality classified as a mountain area. Your amendment, like the previous one, would therefore introduce a derogation to the benefit of almost half of the national territory. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u477	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u478	Unfavorable opinion. All the recommendations are useful and I'm used to listening to each other's proposals. I would like to remind you once again that the coordination companies do not have any local management tasks. I can hear the concern about the risk of a willingness on the part of the structures to merge afterwards, but this is not the case as it stands. These structures will continue to exist and local settlements will remain. I am personally attached to it, because I do not imagine that, in some territories, we find ourselves without a structure having a seat in our departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u479	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 505, 56, 900, 1827, 1865, 2074 and 2640, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 56, 900, 1827, 1865 and 2640 are identical. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 505.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u480	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 56 by my colleague Pierre Cordier, who is in the same vein. This amendment clarifies what is meant by "social rental housing managed by the organization".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u481	Amendment No 56 has therefore just been defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 900.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u482	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u483	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1827.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u484	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u485	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1865.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u486	It is a question of specifying the method of calculation: it is three beds or places for a dwelling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u487	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 2074.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u488	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u489	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2640.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u490	This amendment clarifies what is meant by "social rental housing managed by the organization". It shall include in the calculation the equivalent housing according to the method which prevails for the definition of social rental housing within the meaning of the SRU law and for the determination of the fixed share of the remuneration of the Director General of a public housing office.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u491	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u492	Rather, this is a regulatory issue. Request for withdrawal if not unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u493	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u494	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u495	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 471.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u496	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u497	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor to support Amendment No. 410.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u498	This is an important amendment for my territory of the High Pyrénées. In line with the objectives pursued by the "City Action" plan launched by the Government on 27 March, this amendment is intended not to apply the procedure of withdrawal of approval to SEMs which, in addition to their approved activities, carry out real estate development or renovation activities in the city centre or in the centre of the city. The economic model of the approved EMS follows a particular logic: under the control and leadership of the local authorities, the EMS seeks to respond to a comprehensive territorial strategy by carrying out several public service or general interest activities of an industrial and commercial nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u499	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u500	The approval of SEMs is necessary only for the construction and management of social housing. SEMs that would have their registration withdrawn may continue all other activities in private housing or in the housing agreement PLS or PLI. Thus the loss of authorisation does not impact the other actions of the SEMs outside social housing. It is also prohibited to use financial products from social housing to finance other activities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u501	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u502	Same comments, same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u503	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 2557.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u504	The purpose of this amendment is to limit the scope of the compulsory sale of SEM housing which does not comply with the obligation of grouping only to conventional housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u505	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1866.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u506	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u507	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u508	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u509	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u510	Same request.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u511	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 250.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u512	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u513	I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 259, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u514	At the same time, I will defend the whole series of amendments by my colleague Vincent Rolland, Member of Parliament for Savoie, in the Tarentaise Valley, which has the largest French ski resorts, with the Maurienne and the Mont-Blanc country, which make us the first ski resort in the world. Thank you for the amendment to the World Ski Championships. You are all invited in 2023, in Savoie. It gives you a little time to organize yourself. My colleague Vincent Rolland has tabled a series of amendments aimed at adapting the threshold of the 15,000 inhabitants in mountain areas – this proves that I am not the only one to focus on these particular mountain issues. With these amendments, he is playing a bit of a game by proposing different thresholds, as our colleague Little has done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u515	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u516	I have nothing against the mountain, but the opinion remains unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u517	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u518	Disfavorable for the arguments already developed earlier and which are really not a proper attack on the mountain, you know that. We proved it yesterday, as you recalled, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u519	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 252, 251, 523 to 529 and 531 which can be discussed jointly. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u520	As I mentioned earlier, you can consider this series of amendments to be defended, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u521	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 902, 1828 and 2641. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 902.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u522	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u523	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1828.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u524	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u525	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2641.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u526	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u527	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u528	This falls within the regulatory level. Request for withdrawal if not unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u529	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u530	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u531	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 2560.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u532	The purpose of this amendment is to include in the turnover allowing a SEM to be exempted from grouping the activities of its subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u533	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 1186.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u534	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u535	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u536	This will be an unfavourable opinion: these adaptations are sufficient to maintain the specificities and diversity of EMS.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u537	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u538	Unfavorable notice too. After many consultations with the EPL Federation and the representatives of the mixed economy companies, we arrived at a widely accepted solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u539	I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 253.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u540	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u541	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 254.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u542	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u543	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-02-O1245.u544	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
