ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of a bill authorizing the approval of an international agreement (No. 509, 640). As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u2	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u3	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of Protocol No. 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (No. 510, 642).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u5	Madam President, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must apologize to you for Jean-Yves Le Drian, who has been retained by other commitments and who I am replacing before you this morning. The European Court of Human Rights has an essential mission to defend the values and principles that underpin our democracy. France is particularly committed to respect for the principles guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and to the indispensable role played by the ECHR in this regard. For several years, however, the Commission has been faced with a risk of congestion which could endanger the exercise of its mission. Several reforms have taken place to address this challenge. Protocol 16 to the Convention is a new instrument which should enable the Court to limit the influx of applications by promoting the effective implementation by national courts of the rights guaranteed by the Convention, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. Protocol No 16 establishes a mechanism for supreme national courts to refer questions of interpretation of the Convention to the European Court of Human Rights, which they could not yet do. As a genuine instrument for the dialogue of judges, Protocol No. 16 will enable national supreme courts, which are responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of the rights enshrined in the Convention, to resolve in advance the difficulties which might arise in interpreting or applying the rights and freedoms defined by the Convention. In the long run, the aim of this preventive mechanism is to reduce the number of applications brought before the European Court of Human Rights and to limit the risk of condemnation by States parties. The consultative procedure provided for in Protocol No 16 is aimed at the supreme courts and not at the substantive courts, which is in line with the logic of the Convention, which requires that domestic remedies have been exhausted. It is for the national supreme courts, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to ensure that the Convention is properly applied. This is a simple faculty that will be offered to them. Thus, this procedure cannot in any case be compared with the question procedure referred for a preliminary ruling before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is binding on the Supreme Courts. These requests for opinions will be subject to a filter operated by a college of the Grand Chamber of the Court composed of five judges, including the national judge, before, where appropriate, being examined by the Grand Chamber itself, a higher formation of seventeen judges including the national judge. The State to which the court which sent the request for an opinion falls may, if it so wishes, submit observations to the Grand Chamber. In addition to the optional nature of the opinion procedure, the Protocol fully preserves the power of the national courts to decide the dispute themselves, since the opinion delivered by the Court is not binding. Thus, France's ratification of this protocol is a continuation of the excellent relations between France and the European Court of Human Rights, and consolidates the permanent dialogue between the French courts and the Court. The Government intends to designate the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and the Court of Cassation as the high French courts empowered to refer the matter to the Court. Each of these three courts has indeed expressed the wish to be able to have this option, which will strengthen the dialogue they are already having with the European Court of Human Rights, particularly within the framework of the network of supreme courts. It is in the common interest of Europe and France to ratify this Protocol. This is in Europe's interest because the possibility for the European Court of Human Rights to decide a case upstream should reduce its workload by allowing it to decide questions of principle that could arise in many disputes. By avoiding the multiplication of applications on the same issue, the Court will thus be able to eliminate the backlog of cases still pending before it, which stood at 56250 on 1 January 2018. It is also in France's interest because the Protocol provides the highest French courts with an additional tool to enable them to appropriate the Convention to decide the disputes before them themselves. By ensuring even more effective protection of human rights at national level, this new tool will contribute to strengthening the authority of decisions of national courts and the strengthening of the rule of law, while ensuring more effective implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, which is at the heart of the treaty system. Finally, the implementation of the opinion procedure provided for in the Protocol is such as to preserve France from a conviction by the European Court of Human Rights, which could have been avoided earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] These are, Madam President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the main observations called for in Protocol No 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is the subject of the bill that you are proposed to ratify this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u6	Mrs Bérengère Poletti, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u7	Madam President, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this protocol, adopted on 10 July 2013 by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, forms part of a global reflection on the future of the ECHR system, one of the main challenges of which is the absorption of its congestion. The number of applications before the ECHR rose from 5000 in 1989 to 26000 in 2000, reaching around 150000 in the early 2010s. There are currently approximately 65,000 applications pending before the Court, compared to about 90,000 in June 2017, but the flow is far from drying up. Protocol No 16 establishes the possibility for national supreme courts to refer the matter to the ECHR in an advisory capacity on the interpretation of the Convention. The aim is to facilitate the application of the ECHR's jurisprudence at national level and to resolve the difficulties of interpreting the Convention in advance. In the long run, the aim is also to reduce the number of requests to the ECHR. This protocol is designed to work as flexibly as possible. Its entry into force does not require the ratification of all the parties to the Convention. The parties to the protocol may decide which domestic courts are empowered to seek an opinion. The latter are free to make a request for an opinion. The Court is free to decide which applications to accept and its opinions are not binding on the courts seeking them. This protocol has been actively supported by our country, in a context of a much more harmonious interaction between the law of the convention and the national order. After beginnings marked by tensions and even conflicts between the Court of Strasbourg and the national courts, the representatives of the Council of State and the Court of Cassation whom I have heard believe that these tensions have been overcome and we have adapted our procedures into domestic law. Our jurisdictions are increasingly taking ownership of the court's standards. For its part, the ECHR better understands and takes better account of national particularities and constraints. Today, the climate and dialogue are considered to be fully satisfactory or even excellent. In fact, France now accounts for a very small percentage of the ECHR's litigation: about 1.6%. The number of convictions against France has decreased significantly. For several years, the annual number of judgments handed down concerning France has been stable: around twenty, half of them in violation. While the protocol is actively supported by our country, I note, however, that it has limited membership among the other members of the Council of Europe. To date, only eighteen Council of Europe member states have signed it and only eight have ratified it. Two other States, Italy and the Netherlands, having announced that they had initiated the ratification procedure, the number of ten ratifications required to allow entry into force should be rapidly reached. Some countries had initially indicated that they were not interested – Germany, Russia, Poland and the United Kingdom. Other countries are not hostile to it, but prefer to observe the operation of the protocol at first before eventually joining it – Ireland, Sweden and Norway. If foreign courts, in particular the German courts, are apparently not interested in the mechanism, I note that our supreme courts welcome it with great enthusiasm. The current system, which leads the ECHR, after exhaustion of domestic remedies, to censor their decisions, seems to them structurally creating tensions or even conflicts. They also felt that the system was also creating legal uncertainty and sterile debates, the consultative procedure of which would make it possible to save money. As I have indicated, the opinion procedure will be optional, contrary to the mechanism of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. There will be no form of guardianship in our jurisdictions, which will sovereignly assess the need or the opportunity to seek an opinion. The national judge will remain the ordinary judge of application of the Convention and there will be no reason to fear, according to the Court of Cassation and the Council of State, excessive use of this procedure, especially since the scope of the application for an opinion will be circumscribed. A notice may only be sought in connection with a dispute during the course of the proceedings. It will therefore not be intended to allow for a theoretical review of the legislation. Requests for advisory opinions may relate only to questions of principle relating to the interpretation or application of the rights and freedoms defined by the Convention or its Protocols. I would also point out that it will be the formation of the Court of Cassation before which the case is pending – Chamber, Joint Chamber or Plenary Assembly – which will have the initiative of requesting an opinion from the ECHR. Furthermore, the opinion can only be requested by the Court of Cassation, the Council of State or the Constitutional Council. The Protocol leaves it to States to choose the "highest courts" empowered to refer the matter to the European Court. If the choice of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State was not debated, the Government had questioned the appointment of the Constitutional Council and wished to rely on it. The Constitutional Council gave a favourable opinion, however, recalling that it considered compliance with the Convention only in the context of the electoral dispute. In the context of the constitutionality check, however, it is based on the jurisprudence of the ECHR and does not exclude the possibility of being able, where appropriate, to request an opinion from it. I note in passing that the Constitutional Council may not have been insensitive to the prospect of being described as "high jurisdiction". Finally, the request for an opinion must satisfy certain procedural conditions: in particular, it must be reasoned. The court making the application may include a statement of its own opinion. The Court of Cassation considers that this opinion might contravene the principle of secrecy of the deliberations, but this position is not shared by the Council of State, which intends to clarify the Court's own interpretation. On this point, I believe that the position of the Council of State should be encouraged, since the views of national courts can be a very interesting vehicle for influencing the evolution of the ECHR's jurisprudence. The European Court of Human Rights will have the discretion to accept an application or not. However, it can be expected that it will hesitate to refuse an application that meets the various criteria I have just outlined, especially since it will have to justify its refusals, which has raised reservations on its part. I note that opinions will not be binding, but it would be contrary to common sense that they will not be followed, both by national courts and by the ECHR, except in very exceptional circumstances. Furthermore, the Court will not be bound by time limits to deliver its opinions. The question of the time limits within which it will be able to respond will, I believe, be quite decisive for the success of the procedure. The Council of State considers that, in certain cases, in electoral, economic and social matters, in particular, delays exceeding three to six months could indeed have a strong deterrent effect, especially since some fear that the Court might become even more crowded in the short term, because of the additional work caused by the opinions. However, this risk is limited by several factors, starting with the gradual entry into force of the Protocol and the small number of ratifications. It is also limited by the framework of the procedure, reserved for the highest courts and questions of principle. Above all, it is to be hoped that the Court, in favour of the entry into force of the Protocol and fully aware of the issues it represents, will be particularly diligent in its implementation. Finally, there should be no problem of linking the opinion procedure with the mechanism of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, insofar as the question is mandatory and, as such, priority. However, I note that there is still a risk of contradiction between the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and that of the European Court of Human Rights, independently of the ratification of Protocol No 16. While mechanisms are already in place to ensure the consistency of their respective case law, they do not guarantee it. I would point out that the CJEU delivered an opinion 2/ 13 dated 18 December 2014, which makes it very difficult for the Union to accede to the ECHR, which is provided for in the Treaties. This opinion, based on an argument that has been found to be highly questionable by most observers and attests to a conflict of legitimacy far more than a dialogue of judges, raises many questions. In the absence of an institutionally satisfactory result based on the Union's formal accession to the Convention, it cannot be satisfied that the coherence of European law depends so much on the good will of the judges. But again, this issue is independent of whether or not an advisory opinion procedure exists. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill, which the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously adopted. The advisory opinion procedure is expected by our national courts, which consider that this procedural instrument, this dialogue tool, is currently lacking. It is a flexible instrument, which I think is very useful and whose proper application will depend largely on the use of it by the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u8	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u9	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Human Rights has the essential responsibility, as has been said, to ensure compliance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The protocol we are considering this morning aims to strengthen the dialogue between the judges of the ECHR and the highest courts of the States Parties, by allowing them to request advisory opinions on questions of principle relating to the interpretation and application of the Convention before rendering their judgements. In doing so, we will ensure better implementation of the Convention and reduce the risk of subsequent censorship by the ECHR. This protocol is supported by our country, which has been actively involved in its development. This dialogue tool has long been desired by our national courts, which regularly face difficulties in interpreting the Convention, without being able to question the Court. For example, a few years ago, the Council of State was seized of petitions calling into question the legal prohibition of any form of trade union in the armed forces. In 2008, the Council of State confirmed this total ban, not without hesitation and with serious doubt as to its compliance with the Convention. In a judgment of 2 October 2014, the Court censored the decision of the Council of State, finding that an absolute prohibition violated Article 11 of the Convention. Since then, our country has granted the military a right of professional association. If the Council of State had had the opportunity to question the Strasbourg Court upstream, we could have avoided legal uncertainty and unnecessary litigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u10	What about our sovereignty?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u11	This example shows how we currently lack this advisory procedure. After an in-depth exchange of views on the report by Mr Bérengère Poletti, whom I thank and congratulate on the quality of his work, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted this bill unanimously. Its ratification by our Assembly will enable our highest courts, when faced with difficulties of interpretation before rendering their decision, to ask to be informed by the Court of Strasbourg. This protocol will also be a tool at the service of the ECHR, now faced with a constant and massive influx of requests; This will allow it to reduce the number of cases brought before it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u12	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u13	Finally, this protocol will strengthen the necessary links and dialogue between our jurisdictions and the ECHR, which have been strongly strengthened over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u14	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u15	On the one hand, our courts are increasingly appropriating the Court's standards: the very positive record of our country, in recent years – only 1.6% of the ECHR's litigation concerns France – bears witness to this. On the other hand, the Court of Strasbourg is now much more attentive to national specificities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and GDR groups]] I therefore believe it is essential to maintain and strengthen in the future this link, this dialogue, this strategy of influence by law, and I have no doubt that Protocol No 16 will contribute to this, as it will – as the President of the Republic, on 31 October last year, before the European Court, enable us to considerably strengthen our legal basis in the field of human rights and thus to participate in collective progress. That is why I call on our House to allow its ratification this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u16	In the general debate, Mr Guillaume Larrivé spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u17	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, should France's submission to the European Court of Human Rights be speeded up? I don't believe it. My conviction is that we do not need this jurisdiction to respect human rights, while respecting the right of the State to safeguard the public interest. Our country, among the first, has been able to define and build a national legal system for the reasonable protection of rights. The foundations were laid as early as the 1789 Declaration. Our national courts have been protecting them entirely since any person who is entitled to appeal to the Constitutional Council to assert his fundamental rights, by way of exception, under a mechanism now very powerful set up ten years ago. We do not need the ECHR to protect human rights reasonably. All the more so since over the decades, the apparent legal progress of the European Court of Human Rights has given rise to a veritable anti-democratic regression, far removed from the original intentions of the authors of the Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u19	Over the past ten years, the Court's jurisprudence has been very creative and, I dare say, in a very risky way, in disregard of France's interests and without regard for the will of the French people. It is this court which, a few years ago, in a strange Matelly judgment, ruled that France must stop prohibiting trade unions within our armies. It was this court which, in Mugenzi and others, ordered France to further increase the volume of family reunification. It is this court that, in Mennesson and Labassée, is moving step by step towards the grievous recognition of the effects of pregnancy on others. It is this court that has tolerated from the tip of its lips that France forbids the wearing of the Islamic integral veil, but has taught us the lesson in lunar terms, falling under the multiculturalist ideology, in a SAS judgment against France. Worse still, it was this court that prevented our Republic from expelling the Islamist terrorist Djamel Beghal: although deprived of French nationality, it is now, by the will of these same judges, protected against expulsion. It is still this court that, a few days ago, condemned our country for having returned in 2015 to Algeria an individual sentenced to prison and to the ban on French territory for his involvement in a terrorist organization belonging to the Chechen channels. Let's open our eyes! By what strange renunciation can our country accept that an external supranational authority accuses it of absolutely banning burqa and obliges it to retain in France terrorists ad vitam aeternam? Too much is too much! I am not in favour of the fact that, on the pretext of fluidising the dialogue between judges, the channels of subordination of the French legal system to the European Court of Human Rights are actually being multiplied. This jurisdiction is not and should not be affirmed as the supreme court of the French legal order. I note, moreover, that other perfectly democratic European states, fully aware, like all of us, of the need to preserve human rights, have the wisdom to refuse this ratification. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to question the choice of the Federal Republic of Germany. I also note, and I am pleased, that the process of accession of the European Union to the ECHR is now blocked. In many respects, the European Court of Human Rights, by its risky jurisprudence of the last ten years, has weakened the European Convention on Human Rights in the eyes of human rights defenders, forgetting that there is a democratic State right, a right of the national State to defend the public interest. I think it is up to us to see that lucidly. My conviction, that I know a minority in this House right now, is that the protection of fundamental rights no longer necessarily goes through the European Court of Human Rights today, but through a genuine dialogue between the national judges and the Court of Justice of the European Union, within the framework defined by the legislators of the different nations of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u21	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u22	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to address you this morning not only on the ratification of Protocol No 16 but also, more broadly, on the Council of Europe and the ECHR, especially after the words of our colleague Guillaume Larrivée. First of all, on behalf of MODEM and as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – and precisely of the subcommittee responsible for the follow-up to the decisions of the ECHR – I would like to say how essential it seems to us, as a fundamental one, to ratify Protocol No. 16 and, beyond that, to reaffirm our support for the Council of Europe and the ECHR. Because the Council of Europe is in crisis, ladies and gentlemen. It faces a political and financial crisis, with Russia and Turkey, a crisis of values – we had three presidents in six months – and a much deeper crisis, with the questioning of its very legitimacy, as well as that of the ECHR. During the two sessions in which I took part in Strasbourg, I found that some Members were invectivating us in the Chamber to say that under no circumstances were the ECHR or the Council of Europe legitimate to deal with internal human rights issues in their country: this was the case, most recently, with Polish colleagues; similar remarks were made by the Germans of AFD, in particular, during the reception session of the new elected officials; I also heard it from very liberal Swiss colleagues who refused the ECHR to have a say in a case which they considered to be purely a national one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u23	They're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u24	In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that France's role is particularly important. The Council of Europe is legitimate to deal with human rights issues, which may concern, where appropriate, a specific case in a given country. It is indeed his mission and that of his armed arm, the ECHR, to promote human rights and to denounce and condemn shortcomings. The ECHR is today the last resort of a citizen against his own State; It is a fundamental right for each and every European citizen. As you said, Madam Chairperson of the Committee, Emmanuel Macron visited Strasbourg on 31 October at the ECHR. He was the first President of the French Republic to come to address the judges of the Court. He asked a fundamental question, which finally agrees with the comments just made by Mr Larrivé: is it to renounce his sovereignty to accept the role of the Council of Europe and the ECHR? The answer is clear and simple: no, it is not giving up its sovereignty; On the contrary, it is a deliberate choice, recognizing that human rights have no borders and that local interpretation or specific culture does not have to counteract the defence of human rights. By signing our commitment to the Council of Europe, we affirm that human rights and respect for them go beyond national borders and are universal in nature. We have had this essential debate on several occasions with our parliamentary colleagues – I greet Nicole Trisse, President of the French delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe –, with the French judge and with the French ambassador to the Council of Europe, Jean-Baptiste Mattei. In terms of law, we affirm that the decisions of the ECHR are binding on us, even if they condemn France. In terms of values, we affirm that human rights are not the business of any one, but are universal and binding on all. In terms of democratic principles, we affirm that it is important for a citizen to be able to invoke the ECHR and to be able to defend his or her rights, including against his or her own State. Finally, in political terms, we affirm our support for the Council of Europe and the ECHR, because they are the fruit of our humanist tradition and centuries of democracy, and are an important step in our deep and real commitment to human rights. I shall also mention a few examples. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the jurisprudence of the ECHR that is directly responsible for the decriminalisation of homosexuality in Ireland, for the abolition of corporal punishment in British schools or for the adoption by France of legislation regulating telephone taps! The jurisprudence of the ECHR and Protocol No. 16 therefore open up possibilities. Without taking up the remarks made by the chairman of the committee on the specificities of Protocol 16, I would like to make three points which I believe are key. First of all, as I say in my turn, it will obviously reduce the number of potential disputes, making it possible to strengthen the upstream dialogue between the national courts and the ECHR. Secondly, it will reduce the areas of conflict between the various bodies. Finally, it will offer new guarantees to our courts as they will be able to express themselves when they refer the matter to the Court for its opinion, by proposing a reading and interpretation of the law in accordance with our wishes, and thus to positively influence the entire jurisprudence of the ECHR. It is more necessary than ever to strengthen the links between our national courts and the ECHR. In our view, Protocol No. 16 is essential. I say it all the more forcefully as the Court of Cassation and the Council of State consider this possibility of referral very useful. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that ratification of this protocol comes at a decisive and particular moment in the history of the Council of Europe and the ECHR. The year 2019 will mark the sixtieth anniversary of the Council of Europe, the seventieth anniversary of the activities of the ECHR and the thirtieth anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, which is a symbol. In addition, in 2019, France will hold the Presidency of the Council of Europe, which will provide a unique opportunity to reaffirm the values and central role of the Council and the ECHR. I therefore believe that the entry into force of Protocol 16 in 2018 would be a step forward in this jurisdictional logic. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and GDR groups]] As you will understand, the MODEM Group invites you to vote on this ratification bill. As a member of the Alsatian Parliament, the question of human rights and the preservation of rights and freedoms has a particular meaning for me. Defending human rights for today's citizens also means defending the legacy of those who have fought for these rights and freedoms, which we must never forget. Strasbourg, the city of European citizens, the seat of the ECHR and the Council of Europe, and where many other institutions are concentrated, such as the European Parliament, which places the citizen at the heart of their action, will play its full part in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u25	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u26	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the main purpose of the bill we are considering this morning is, as you know, to improve the dialogue between the national courts of the forty-seven member countries of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. The aim is to ratify Protocol No 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which establishes a mechanism for requesting an advisory opinion from national judges at the European Court of Human Rights. With Protocol No 16, the highest courts will now be able to address to the ECHR requests for advisory opinions on questions of principle relating to the interpretation or application of the rights and freedoms defined by the Convention or its protocols concerning a national court in a case pending before it. Requests for opinions may be rejected on a discretionary basis, but the reasons for the rejection must still be given. The admissibility of these applications will be considered by a panel of five judges of the Grand Chamber, and the Grand Chamber will give its advisory opinion. This opinion, which is purely advisory, will in no way serve as a decision, and national judges will not be subject to any obligation once it is issued. It is this consultative nature that could paradoxically be the main criticism of this mechanism, as the lack of binding character makes it unhelpful. However, the opinions will express the interpretation of the provisions of the Convention as conceived by the ECHR, and it would be contrary to common sense not to follow them, especially since in the event of a subsequent referral, the Grand Chamber should not give itself up. The second critical aspect would be the potential extension of the legal procedure's time pending the issue of the Court's opinion. The protocol does not provide for a time limit for the examination of applications, even if it is intended that they will receive priority treatment. However, we need to be vigilant on this point, Mr Secretary of State, as you pointed out in your report, Mrs Poletti, that a relatively short deadline is very important. Excessive delays, from three to six months, could have a deterrent effect on the use of this mechanism. It will, above all, allow for an analysis of the situation from a different, more objective perspective and for the advancement of sometimes complicated cases. Although this is in no way an obligation and the Member States do not have a duty to use it, this protocol remains an important and interesting tool from several angles, first and foremost for those who will use it. It responds to a real need for the management of judicial cases at European level, reducing the number of cases referred to the ECHR. Statistics from the European Court of Human Rights show that in 2017, more than 63,000 applications were filed with the European Court of Human Rights, an increase of 19% over the previous year. However, 49400 of them were declared inadmissible for various reasons and were not dealt with by a committee. This increase represents a considerable workload. Requests could be processed faster, more accurately and under better conditions. At the same time, the advisory opinion protocol would deal with cases which would not have been accepted as applications but which remain important to the applicants. These figures highlight the need for the protocol, but also for the recognition of its legitimacy by the member countries of the Council of Europe. Another beneficial aspect is that the consultative advice mechanism will gradually bring the law of the forty-seven member countries of the Council of Europe into convergence. In fact, not all Member States' laws are identical and national judges are subject to the influence of their own legislation. The mere fact that the opinion is only advisory is already a guarantee of clarification and simplification in the management of judicial cases. There is indeed an inquisitorial aspect since it is an opinion, but it is not a judgment or a decision. This nuance is important because exchanges will be facilitated. In the context of democracy and equality, Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Protocol expressly states that dissenting opinions shall be allowed and that judges shall have the right to express their opinion as a result of the opinion delivered. This is essential to understand the purpose of the protocol. It will thus be possible to take a step back from cases and, thanks to the experience and expertise of other judges, and also by referring to similar cases, to have a better approach to the dispute in question. The debate is also an essential aspect of this protocol: it is through the debate and the confrontation of different opinions that it is sometimes possible to better understand the situation; It is only by engaging and facilitating dialogue that legal disputes can be dealt with under the best and fairest conditions. Moreover, through this protocol, it will be possible to improve the European Convention on Human Rights. Freedom and human rights are not frozen and must be deepened; the struggle to achieve this is more or less intense, but permanent. Freedom and human rights, in their very definition, are bound to change in the light of reflections and considerations. Protocol No 16 is essential to improve and ensure an open dialogue between the Council of Europe's high legal bodies and its forty-seven Member States. This is another step forward in strengthening democracy in Europe and in each Member State. It is even a wealth, which feeds a form of equality between all countries. This protocol has already been ratified by eight Member States and will enter into force once ten States have ratified it. Our different cultures and customs enrich opinions and debates. It is a wealth, and even a chance, to have at your disposal such differences, which define Europe. This can indeed cause problems and stalemate, but it is our duty to know how to use these processes and to derive the maximum benefit from them. It is our duty, and that of the European Court of Human Rights, to continue to work in this direction and to encourage and even facilitate this work. This system is, in a way, a way of continuing to improve everything we have already been able to build. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Protocol No 16 is necessary and represents a step forward towards the harmonisation and clarification of the legislation of the members of the Council of Europe. It represents a step forward in the preservation of human rights; It will improve what has already been done and work on what remains to be done. For all these reasons, the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote in favour of this ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u27	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u28	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the extreme increase in the number of applications to the European Court of Human Rights – from 6000 in 1989 to 150000 per year in the early 2010s, I repeat – it became urgent to find a way to reduce the congestion of the Strasbourg jurisdiction. This is the whole purpose of Protocol No 16, which, by introducing an advisory opinion procedure for national supreme courts before the ECHR, establishes a necessary dialogue between them, capable of preventing conflicts between these different levels of jurisdiction. Indeed, the current system, which saw the ECHR, after exhaustion of domestic remedies, contradicting the highest national courts, could only lead to tensions. On the other hand, Protocol No 16, which provides for the possibility for national courts, in the opinion procedure, to present their own opinion on the cases at issue, may also, paradoxically, have the effect of contributing to influencing the ECHR. This judicial dialogue will, however, be tempered by the fact that the Court of Strasbourg can only be brought before it for litigation during and on questions of principle. It will also have the discretion to refuse any request for an opinion, provided that the reasons for its decision are given. The consistency of the advisory opinions rendered by the ECHR with its ordinary jurisprudence will be ensured by the fact that they will be rendered by the Grand Chamber, its main body. I welcome the inclusion in our agenda of the bill authorizing the ratification of this protocol, which highlights the Court's fundamental role and the increase in the number of human rights violations found in the European Union and its nearest neighbourhood, which has led the Court to adapt its procedures and to make them more flexible, but also to increase its effectiveness. Thus, in 2017, the ECHR ruled on nearly 86,000 cases, an increase of 123% over 2016. The number of judgments rendered amounted to 1068, of which almost 523 were delivered by a three-judge committee, an increase of 70 per cent in the number of cases tried in committee. The number of pending requests was 80000 at the end of 2016 and 56000 at the end of 2017, a decrease of almost 30%. This is mainly due to the repatriation of applications at the national level on various grounds, mainly the non-exhaustion of domestic remedies and the massive removal of disputes under pilot procedures. In fact, the ECHR may face mass litigation due to structural or systemic problems. To remedy this, it has developed the pilot judgment procedure, which requires States, once the principles have been laid down, to legislate or adopt the necessary measures, under the authority of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. In this respect, it is not uninteresting to look at the geography of litigation before the ECHR. In 2016, the significant increase in the number of applications was due to appeals against Turkey, following the July 2015 coup attempt: almost 30,000 appeals, an increase of 275%. Currently, the largest recourse providers are Romania with 9900 requests, Russia with 7700 requests, Turkey with 7500 requests and Ukraine with 7100 requests. Beyond the jurisprudence of the ECHR, there is a question that we cannot avoid: the human rights situation within the European Union itself. While these fundamental principles have been at the heart of its creation, several populist regimes, including those of Poland and Hungary, have raised their legitimacy by questioning them. While the sanction procedure for non-compliance with human rights provided for in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union seems to be unusable, it is necessary to consider the means to be used to put an end to these situations where the rule of law is threatened. Let us not be mistaken: it is the firmness with which we will demand respect for these principles that will make the European Union more popular, not small accommodation based on unsaid claims to save appearances! The renegotiation of the European Union's financial perspective for the years 2021-2026 could be an opportunity to make the allocation of European aid conditional on respect for the principles of democracy and the rule of law. It's a mistake, but it's necessary. In the speech he gave before the ECHR on 31 October this morning, the President of the Republic stated that human rights are "a building that we must bequeath intact to succeeding generations". And he added: "It will be a fight. [...] This fight will also be that of France because in this field, to take up the beautiful formula of Victor Hugo who was also one of Clemenceau's currencies, there will always be more land promised than land won. In this area too, we will see whether or not the President of the French Republic has the means of his ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u30	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Protocol No 16 aims to strengthen the dialogue between the judges of the European Court of Human Rights and the national judges, which is a good thing. Indeed, the European Court of Human Rights is the institution guaranteeing the principles enshrined in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Created in 1959 by the Council of Europe, today it exerts an influence far beyond the borders of the European Union, since it brings together forty-seven states. The protocol you are proposing to ratify opens the possibility for the highest courts of the States parties to the Convention to address to the ECHR requests for advisory opinions on questions of interpretation or application of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Even if this procedure will be optional and even if – should it be recalled? – the opinions delivered by the ECHR are not binding, but this development remains essential in order to better respect fundamental human rights. One of our colleagues mentioned earlier – he has since left the Chamber – his refusal of our country's "submission" to the ECHR. This is curious, as Members of these same benches agree to submit to the "austeral" and neoliberal treaties of the European Union. The protocol also aims to address the congestion of the ECHR. Indeed, the process of enlargement of the Council of Europe, which now has 47 Member States, has clearly led to a massive influx of requests to the ECHR. The structure of judicial review and its conditions of exercise have had to be changed in order to enable the Court to deal effectively with the increasing number of applications before it. The protocol that we are proposed to ratify aims to respond to the excessive number of individual complaints brought before the ECHR, but also to the problem of misinterpretation and application of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by the Member States and the insufficient dialogue between them and the ECHR. It is intended to facilitate the application of the ECHR's case law at national level and to resolve upstream the difficulties of interpreting the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is indeed necessary to facilitate the application of the ECHR's jurisprudence, which protects many fundamental human rights. These include article 4 of the Convention, which prohibits slavery and forced labour. We know that in Europe there are about 600,000 modern slaves, whose fragile status keeps them in precarious condition, such as migrant workers, especially undocumented and asylum-seekers, who are most at risk of exploitation. In France – should we remind him? – justice struggles to combat forced labour, the practice of which is spreading notably in agriculture, construction, industry and catering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u32	Everywhere, in short!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u33	We should also continue to bring our law into line with article 5 of the Convention, which enshrines the right to liberty and security. It provides, inter alia, for the right to be informed, in a language that is understood, of the reasons and charges for the arrest, as well as the right to a prompt appeal to a court that may determine the legality of the arrest or detention and the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time. One wonders if the current organized migrant hunt and the asylum and immigration bill that we will be debating will fully respect these fundamental principles...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u34	Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u35	I would like to recall a few provisions of this text: the increase in the maximum duration of administrative detention to 135 days, which blurs the border between detention and detention; the systematization of obligations to leave French territory; the authorization of baggage searches and visual inspections; automation of fingerprinting and photo-taking of foreigners, considered de facto as alleged offenders. In short, the European Court of Human Rights will have much to do, I think, with the future law that the majority is preparing for us! Reference should also be made to Article 9 of the Convention, which guarantees the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. Other articles – and I will not mention them all, nor will they specify their importance in detail – deal with freedom of expression, as well as the right to family life and privacy. In addition, the recent jurisprudence of the ECHR recognizes the right to privacy at work. Nevertheless, it must be noted that these principles, however fundamental, are far from being respected everywhere, in particular because of the extension of telework without any limits or regulations. Beyond the necessary improvement of the communication between the judges of the European Court of Human Rights and those of the national courts, which is necessary and provided for in this Protocol, efforts must be made to strengthen the application of these main principles. Indeed, we all know that many countries, including our own, regularly free themselves from respect for certain fundamental rights. For example, France has been sentenced six times by judgments concerning the detention of families with minor children, thereby subjecting them to treatment contrary to Articles 3, 5 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, relating respectively to the prohibition of torture, the right to liberty and security and the right to respect for private and family life. However, France has still not amended its legislation and is even preparing to tighten it with the immigration bill. In 2016, nearly 4,500 children out of a total of 45,000 people transited to French administrative detention centres. This detention, provided for aliens who are subject to expulsion proceedings and cannot leave the country immediately, is strictly regulated by law, which provides, inter alia, for a limitation of duration, judicial review and specific conditions of detention. Nothing was left to chance, except for minors. Several associations, notably France terre d'asile and CIMADE, denounce in their annual reports the abuses and abuses resulting from this deprivation of liberty. During 2016, several violations of the rights of the child were reported: some children were locked up in inappropriate conditions, torn from their mother's arms, held longer than the law allows and even, especially in the Alpes-Maritimes, forcibly placed in trains, which the law does not allow. Children are sometimes subjected to the same treatment as adults, despite their specific needs. Our country has also been condemned on numerous occasions because of the conditions of imprisonment of convicts and the condition of its prisons, which are considered unworthy and degrading for detainees – it is very difficult to work there, as demonstrated by the recent social movement of prison staff. On this point too, nothing has been done for decades. It should be recalled that, while prisons are used to punish, they are also used to rehabilitate; In this respect, France is very far from the point. In the end, between 1959 and 2012, France was the subject of eight ECHR convictions for discrimination, twenty-two for inhuman treatment, two for forced labour, two for torture, but also 257 convictions for lack of a fair trial and 271 for slow trial. Of course, the jurisprudence of the ECHR does not always go in the right direction in our eyes, especially with regard to respect for secularism, when its decisions are contrary to our 1905 law. Moreover, the State did not wait for the decisions of the ECHR in this matter to derogate from it, with the maintenance of the concordat in Alsace-Moselle, the acceptance by Emmanuel Macron of the title of canon of the Lateran and his recent declarations suggesting that he considers it necessary to organize certain religions himself in France. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Nevertheless, France should sometimes listen more carefully to the ECHR's recommendations. Protocol No 16 will improve the link between national judges and judges of the European Court of Human Rights, which, I repeat, is a good thing. That is why we will vote for its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u36	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u37	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, I am quite pleased with the holding of a debate in the House of the National Assembly on human rights and, above all, on the institution guaranteeing their respect. In the view of the members of our group, it was indeed necessary, if not indispensable, to examine this text in open session, in order to be able to exchange our views on the subject. This is the case, which is a good thing; We have thus heard several messages. Madam President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it would be good if it were hard for us to debate systematically the subjects discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the principles that guide our thinking. Indeed, I remain convinced that we broadly support similar human rights values on almost every bench in this House. In addition, this debate will improve the information of our citizens on the spirit of Protocol No 16. Coming straight from the trauma caused by the violence of the Second World War, the building of international human rights organizations has become a necessity for our elders. The UN – the United Nations – and the Council of Europe, and then the European Economic Community, to name but a few, were placed, from the 1950s onwards, under the sign of a culture of peace and rapprochement between peoples. In Europe, the system is based on the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is overseen by the 47 member states of the Council of Europe, in political and diplomatic matters, in particular through its Parliamentary Assembly, and in legal matters by the European Court of Human Rights. This duo is the alpha and omega of respect for human rights throughout Europe, from Russia to Portugal and from Iceland to Cyprus. We must be proud of this and never hesitate to value, wherever we go, the fact that our country welcomes on its soil in Strasbourg, both the Council of Europe, its parliamentary assembly and the European Court of Human Rights. It has not been established in France by chance: France is a pivotal country in the construction of Europe, and its intellectual history makes our country one of the banners of human rights. Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a concrete text which will enable the European Court of Human Rights to have its mission strengthened and better recognised, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, which is at the heart of European legal construction and respects the Member States – an important concept, often referred to in this House. Through this protocol, the member countries of the Council of Europe will be able to request the ECHR to deliver advisory opinions on issues. This will strengthen the dialogue between the national judges and the judges of the ECHR. By easing its burden, this protocol will also speed up the Court's judgments. It is a good thing to assert the rights of citizens. But the vote on this protocol should not make us forget that the situation in this jurisdiction is complex and precarious. Peace is built on a daily basis, and its instruments must be constantly monitored and sustained. Totally engorged, the ECHR experienced an explosion in the number of petitions, from 5000 in 1989 to nearly 130,000 in 2013. These figures, in addition to the organizational problems they pose, also show the great confidence that citizens have in this institution, which has become indispensable for human rights problems. This is a good thing, because the Court is permanently established in a geopolitical context unfavourable to its development. Several events weaken the ECHR and the Council of Europe: Russia is in an open crisis with the Council of Europe since the annexation of Crimea and has even drastically reduced its financial contribution to the institution; Turkey has validated a tailor-made Constitution for the autocrat Erdogan, which is a violent blow to the very principles of the ECHR, despite regular reminders by the Council of Europe; the situation of refugees in Europe, recalled by my colleague Coquerel, raises the question of human rights in countries that consider these refugees to be problems – these days, France does not always honor itself on the subject. The era is in the culture of war and not in the culture of peace, and this is very damaging. The post-war period and the will to end war violence unfortunately seem distant. It is up to the Court to be the guarantor of our principles, and it is up to us to value it in order to continue to make the discussion and diplomacy triumph over powder and cannons. I want to show these difficulties in the protocol that we are about to ratify, which was signed only by eighteen members of the Council of Europe, which has forty-seven of them. Fortunately, France, Italy and the Netherlands are about to join the eight countries that have already ratified it, and the ten will be crossed, bringing the protocol into force for these States. Protocol 16 is therefore a new stone to the ambitious building for the concrete construction of an area of respect for human rights, with safeguards at continental European level. However, I wish to reiterate here the problem of the political representation of the French delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For parliamentarians, it seems that respect for the rights of the opposition is fundamental. However, the opposition of the National Assembly is not properly represented in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am asking again here officially for the right of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and the Group of the Unsolicited France to have a seat, a replacement, in this assembly. The current situation is an infringement of the plurality of national representation that I had to denounce here. Mr Jean-Claude Mignon, a former member of the Republican Group and President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe between 2012 and 2014, told me his surprise at the attitude of the National Assembly on this subject. He knew what he was talking about: France had always wanted to demonstrate, through the pluralism of its delegation, the strength of its democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the La République group, by your choice, you have, hidden behind the majority fact, displayed a real sectarianism. But it's not too late to go back on that mistake. The majority of our chamber, which has been able to correct certain errors with regard to respect for plurality, in particular for questure, should use it to review the distribution of seats in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Beyond the French case, obviously minor in relation to certain human rights violations in other Council of Europe member states, the Council and its legal arm, the ECHR, have difficulty in enforcing their decisions. I am against the situation in Turkey, which is currently the subject of a follow-up procedure by the Council of Europe but which has little room for pressure on the Ankara regime. Members who have fallen out of office, as happens more and more in Turkey, others who are being confiscated in order to obstruct their travels to Strasbourg or Brussels, as was the case for Member Feleknas Uca: it is a shame for Europe and a failure for parliamentary diplomacy! Human rights also concern parliamentarians. In countries with little attention to respect for these rights, parliamentarians take enormous risks. It was in this context that I travelled to Turkey last November to attend the trial of two Turkish MPs of the HDP Progressive Party. France's role in these actions must be valued. Parliamentary diplomacy, when it is not stuck to state diplomacy, can enrich it. Detached from some cumbersome issues inherent in state-to-state dialogue, parliamentary diplomacy is built on more personal relationships. Although it is less visible than state diplomacy, it is effective, I am convinced. It would therefore be interesting to rely on parliamentary diplomacy to open up the social responsibility of multinationals in the Council of Europe, with a view to ensuring respect for human and environmental rights in subcontracting chains. Yesterday afternoon, together with my colleagues Dominique Potier and Mireille Clapot, we held a symposium on this subject. France passed an ambitious law on this last year. French parliamentary and state diplomacy would be honoured to raise this issue within the Council of Europe. Building a fairer world is part of the mission of the European Council and the European Court of Human Rights. This project is fundamental for the improvement of the living conditions of company employees as well as for the future of our planet. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and FI groups as well as on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The Communist MEPs and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wish to reaffirm their commitment to the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe. I take advantage of my presence in this forum to express our solidarity with all parliamentarians and more broadly all citizens who see their rights violated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u38	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u39	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for choosing one of the members of the French delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the PACE, a delegation which I chair, in this case our colleague Bérengère Poletti, as rapporteur on this important and expected bill. I am also pleased, like Mr Lecoq, that the examination of this text is not subject to the simplified procedure, because it allows us to have in-depth discussions on it in the Chamber this morning. Protocol 16 to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms aims to establish an optional mechanism for the consultation of the European Court of Human Rights by the highest national courts in our country, namely the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and the Court of Cassation. The idea is to allow these national courts to seek, if they so wish, the clarification of the ECHR on questions of principle of a certain gravity relating to the interpretation of the provisions of the Convention of 4 November 1950, with the aim of avoiding subsequent recourse to Strasbourg. This mechanism, which emerged from the reflections initiated after the conferences of Interlaken in 2010 and Brighton in 2012, aims to ensure that our courts take better account of the guidelines of this European Convention, in the very interest of French litigants, in order to avoid as much as possible France's convictions for breaches of the rights opened by the Convention. Our country is already exemplary in litigation before the European Court of Human Rights. The French delegation had the opportunity to discuss this issue with the heads of the Directorate of Legal Affairs and the Human Rights Branch of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs at a hearing in the National Assembly on 20 December. More recently, at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 23 January, we discussed it at the headquarters of the ECHR, with its President, Mr Guido Raimondi, and the French judge, Mr André Potocki. In 2017, some 360 applications were considered concerning our country, and the Court found France's failure to comply with the Convention in only six cases. By comparison, the number of violations by Russia was close to 200 convictions. This vigilance with regard to compliance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights is, I think, a certain novelty. Upon his election, the President of the Republic received the Secretary General of the Council of Europe and the President of the Court at the Elysée. On 31 October, he visited Strasbourg, where he gave a clear speech on his support and that of France for the Court's work, on the scope of the Court's decisions and the values that bind the Council of Europe member states. The fact that this text is on the agenda of our Assembly is an additional signal of France's commitment to the work of the Court of Strasbourg, one of the oldest international courts and the only one present in our territory. Protocol No 16, once ratified by France, will further improve the respect in our country for all the rights provided for in the European Convention, for the greatest benefit of all our citizens. This ratification, desired by the highest French courts, will enable them to be more effective and to resolve disputes more quickly. I am pleased, for my part, to contribute to this concrete progress for the French, to this construction of what the President of the Republic, in his speech of 31 October before the Court, described as "a virtuous circle that over the decades we have built together" and that "makes Europe a unique haven for human rights". [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thus, it is with conviction but also with great pride that I will vote in favour of this bill, because – I quote the Speaker – "it would be a mistake not to complete this construction."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u40	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we must take a decision on the bill authorizing the ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The aim of this protocol is to strengthen the dialogue between the judges of the European Court of Human Rights and the national judges, by enabling the ECHR to deliver advisory opinions at the request of the latter. Although these opinions will be purely advisory, I want to express my concerns about the rise of the ECHR this morning. For a number of years, the referral to this Strasbourg-based court has drifted towards quasi-automaticity after exhaustion of domestic remedies. While it had received only 5000 requests in 1990, 12 years later, the number of requests was 35,000. It now has more than 60000 requests per year, an increase of 1200 per cent. This situation has worsened with the entry into force of Protocol No 11, which provides that individual appeal becomes automatic, without Member States being able to oppose it. Let's be lucid! Unfortunately, fewer and fewer French people believe in Europe. For the European convinced and militant that I am, it is very painful. According to an American study in June 2017, supporters of a national downturn remain the most numerous: 39% in France and 42% on average in the rest of Europe. These numbers must alarm us. The rise of the ECHR reinforces the negative opinion towards it of those who wish to regain more sovereignty. In fact, only eighteen of the forty-seven member states of the Council of Europe have signed Protocol 16, and only eight have ratified it. Indeed, most countries want to know the first results before deciding, including Germany, the United Kingdom, Russia or Poland. In the light of the latest views of the ECHR, I call for caution. The Court of Strasbourg exerts a considerable influence on our right, which is often questionable, and contested in many countries, sometimes appearing as a kind of government of judges with questionable legitimacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u42	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u43	A few examples: I could tell you at length about the judgments of 26 June 2014 in which the Court held that France's refusal to transcribe birth certificates drawn up following pregnancy for others abroad was contrary to the right to respect for the privacy of children, which is false, since these children have a civil status. It thus encourages us to enrich the market for surrogate mothers – I remind you that the prices of a GPA amount to 30000 to 170000 euros depending on the country. The Court of Strasbourg also imposed the presence of a lawyer from the beginning of police custody. While this is an undeniable step forward for freedoms, it makes the work of police officers, who are already overburdened, more difficult. It thus gives priority to the procedure over police effectiveness. The Court also promotes family reunification and prevents the expulsion of aliens in an irregular situation, on the basis of respect for their private and family life. At a time when our country remains threatened by terrorism, it is in the fight against terrorism that the Court's jurisprudence seems to be the most questionable and contrary to the measures that must be taken. As everyone knows, the Court recently sentenced France for having returned to Algeria, in February 2015, one of its nationals sentenced in 2006 to seven years in prison and to a territorial ban for his involvement in a terrorist organization! The Court criticises France for failing to respect two principles of the European Convention on Human Rights: the obligation to retain an individual on its territory whose appeal has been accepted by the Court of Strasbourg; but also that of not returning nationals to countries in which they are at "real and serious risk" of ill-treatment, including torture. This case law is not isolated. France was condemned on several occasions, notably in September 2011 in the case of Djamel Beghal, considered the emir of the Kouachi brothers and Amedy Coulibaly, authors of the Paris killings of January 2015. I do not question the fundamental principles of the European Convention on Human Rights, which brought European peoples together and made Europe a haven. But today we leave Azerbaijani, Albanian, Moldovan, Georgian or Turkish judges, whose countries, we agree, have a very special conception of human rights, have a considerable influence on our law! Designed as a bulwark against totalitarianism, the Court of Strasbourg has today become, like Golem, an uncontrollable creature that escapes its creators. This protocol does not pose the risk of limiting the number of appeals, ladies and gentlemen, but of achieving self-censorship, since the advisory opinion will replace the existing remedies. Let's be careful! As an untouchable guardian of human rights, the ECHR increasingly freely interprets national legislation, becoming both a legislator and a supreme court. We have made the European Convention a Constitution bis, without the knowledge of the peoples of Europe. As Montesquieu wrote, one power must be limited by another power. We are abandoning the legislative power for the benefit of the judiciary. The current situation is already complex; I don't understand why we have to rush. What's our interest? Why give the ECHR more power instead of keeping a real margin of manoeuvre on many subjects, like Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u44	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u45	[[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] I'll finish it. I believe, for example, that we need to review the terms of reference and the competences of the ECHR with regard to national security and the fight against terrorism. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not further weaken the legal autonomy of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u46	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u47	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of Protocol No 16 to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is an important step in the construction of a Europe of rights and freedoms for the benefit of European citizens. In France, this protocol will provide the Council of State, the Court of Cassation and, to a lesser extent, the Constitutional Council with the opportunity to refer a question to the European Court of Strasbourg for a preliminary ruling on the application or interpretation of the European Convention in a contentious case. This new tool will strengthen the protection of human rights and avoid the emergence of dissonant or dissident case law between the French courts and the Court of Strasbourg, all of which guarantee the application of the rights recognized in the European Convention. It will limit the risk of France being convicted a posteriori. By passing this bill, we can now position ourselves as one of the first countries to ratify it, knowing that it will only come into force after ten states have done so. Only eight of the forty-seven Council of Europe member states have ratified it, including, for the time being, no large Western European state, but we know that Italy and the Netherlands have initiated their ratification procedure. France, a country of human rights, which has always defended its universality on the basis of the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights of 1789, must remain active in this fight. While the rights and freedoms recognized by the European Convention on Human Rights are part of this body of rules which protects citizens and which is applied by our judges because of the principle of subsidiarity, our country has for a long time been reluctant to bring this Convention into its legal order. It did not ratify it until late in 1974 and only opened the possibility of direct individual referral to the Court of Justice in 1981. At the time, European law and supranational European courts – the Court of Strasbourg and the Court of Luxembourg – were viewed with concern and caution. From this period the tension between the Council of State and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, in the Cohn-Bendit case of 1978, already forty years ago, and this assessment by Bruno Genevois, then Commissioner of the Government: "there must be no government of judges, nor war of judges. There must be a place for the dialogue of the judges." Today, this dialogue of judges is developing strongly with the mechanism of the question referred for a preliminary ruling: on the one hand, in domestic law, with the procedure of the priority question of constitutionality, introduced in 2008, allowing the Council of State and the Court of Cassation to refer the matter to the Constitutional Council; in Community law, with the reference for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the interpretation and validity of Community law. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling are working well. They have strengthened the good relations between the judges of the different courts and promoted the uniform application of the law. They have demonstrated their effectiveness and necessity. With Protocol 16 and this new question referred for a preliminary ruling, we are taking a further step in the dialogue between judges, the affirmation of the rule of law and the protection of the rights and freedoms of women and men in France and Europe. For dialogue to take place, the exchange must be reciprocal. It is thus provided that, in the context of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, the national court may make its observations and therefore express a point of view. Judges of the European Court will also be able to feed on the observations or positions of the Supreme Courts. The construction of human rights in Europe will therefore be based on the joint work of the European Court of Strasbourg and the supreme courts of the Member States. The existence of the question referred for a preliminary ruling will restrict individual disputes by dissuadeing individuals from applying to the Court of Strasbourg ex post facto. In a time when terrorism requires more stringent rules and limitations of freedoms to ensure security, the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms by judges is all the more important and necessary for the right balance. The Council of State has considerably strengthened its control over the situation of prisoners, applying the letter of the European Convention on Human Rights and drawing on the jurisprudence of the Court of Strasbourg. It has thus consolidated its control over acts in prisons. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The question referred for a preliminary ruling creates a new cooperation between the European Court of Human Rights and the French courts, but also with the other courts of the European States, at the service of our fellow citizens. It is therefore a new step in the construction of a Europe of rights and freedoms, a Europe at the service of human rights, which the working Republic Group supports.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u48	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u49	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u50	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I always find it difficult to understand what is causing French leaders to give parts of our sovereignty to supranational bodies. Are they afraid of power? Or, more seriously, do they think that France, which invented human rights, needs a supranational structure to remind it of its obligation to respect the substance and form? Protocol No 16, which you are asking us to approve today, is undoubtedly a further infringement of France's sovereignty, a further infringement of national independence and a proof of distrust of our country. Indeed, it strengthens the position of the ECHR in our already exorbitant judicial order. More serious, it strengthens its place in the legislative and regulatory field, since, from now on, almost any action taken by the power will ultimately be subject to the will of these foreign judges. If I were not so strongly committed to the independence of my country, I could say that this text has a quality: it will save us time. Indeed, by asking ahead of time for the opinion of the ECHR, France will be able to comply directly with its will, to anticipate its orders, in a way. French law will be subject to prior authorization by the ECHR. Of course, according to Article 5 of the Protocol, opinions will not be binding, but one would have to be well gullible to believe that the ECHR would render an opinion in one direction and then judge in another when it is brought before the court to which France would not have applied the prior opinion. In short, this article is an artifice that only naive people can believe! Your example of military associations was very revealing, Madam Chair of the Commission. Between sovereignty and submission, my choice is quickly made; Yours, too, it seems. Because where are the sovereignty and security of France when it is condemned for having expelled an Algerian terrorist condemned by the French courts? Where are France's sovereignty and security when it is condemned to pay thousands of euros to Somali pirates who had attacked French ships? Where is the sovereignty of France when the ECHR obliges it to recognize a false filiation of children born to GPA, even though this practice is prohibited in France? Unfortunately, I could multiply the examples. The ECHR has become a force for the massive disarmament of States. Subject to the ECHR, they cannot protect their people or allow them to choose their model of society. It does not seem to me an exaggeration to use the term "government of judges". The problem is that the ECHR has changed profoundly over time. In the beginning, its aim was to promote human rights from the European Convention on Human Rights, a text which is almost more philosophical than legal, and which France is, I dare say, one of the most important genitors. But the ECHR has become an extremely powerful political body, shaded by its own power, exorbitant: no democratic legitimacy and no accountability. Do you not find that there is a problem, you who always have the word "democracy" in your mouth? In any case, those who have understood the danger of acceding to the ECHR are your leading friends of the European Union, as it is still not a signatory to the Convention... But be careful, this submission is not a fatality! Since you seem to be considering constitutional reform, let me make a suggestion to you: to include in our Constitution that the Constitution is the supreme norm of the French legal order and that, in fact, no decision could be taken against it. This would restore respect for the founding principle of our Republic: "National sovereignty belongs to the people". As you will have understood, we will not vote for this text because we do not want foreign judges to do and defeat the law in France. We will not vote for this text because we are far too attached to the sovereignty and independence of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u51	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u52	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the bill authorizing the ratification of Protocol No 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This debate is not about Euroscepticism or federalism, far from it, but about respect for French citizens and the democratic legitimacy of our institutions. The protocol provides that the highest courts of a high contracting party – that is, for us, the Court of Cassation, the Council of State and the Constitutional Council – may request an opinion from the ECHR "on questions of principle relating to the interpretation or application of the rights and freedoms defined by the Convention or its protocols". Theoretically, the opinion delivered is purely advisory and is not binding, but the example you have given, Madam rapporteur, is striking: if we comply from the outset with an opinion, then we no longer have the opportunity to assert our rights. In other words, we go straight to bed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u54	In fact, one more nail is pushed into the coffin of French sovereignty and the ECHR is made the supreme jurisdiction, overlooking all our jurisdictions and laws and imposing its interpretations on us, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u56	Moreover, the examination of this protocol must lead us to ask ourselves questions about the role, functioning and competences of the ECHR. The Government has the opportunity, if it has the political will, to renegotiate the conditions of referral and the competences of the ECHR. In this connection, I would like to refer to Protocol No 11, which entered into force in 1998. This protocol must be reviewed: certain applications should not be open to the ECHR; High Contracting Parties should be able to intervene in certain cases, particularly when such requests come from terrorists threatening our national security. Currently, binational or even foreign terrorists convicted by European courts do not refuse to apply to the Court of Strasbourg and at the same time apply for political asylum in order to avoid expulsion to their country of origin. The ECHR has already ruled in their favour by imposing several sanctions against France, the United Kingdom or Belgium. I make it clear that this is an attack on the sovereignty of Member States and their national security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u58	I recall the ban on the French government of the time, in 2009, to expel Kamel Daoudi to Algeria. He had been arrested in the same year as part of an operation to dismantle an Islamist radical group affiliated with Al-Qaeda and suspected of planning a suicide attack against the United States Embassy in Paris. The Court has ruled – be careful – that, given "the degree of its involvement in the networks of the movement of radical Islamism", "it is reasonable to think that [...], because of the interest it may represent for the Algerian security services", Mr. Daoudi "could be subjected, upon his arrival in Algeria, to inhuman and degrading treatment". In other words, the more dangerous the terrorist is, the less he can be expelled. The Court upheld this decision in December 2009, thus prohibiting France from expelling a terrorist who had been convicted by his court and even granting him 4500 euros for costs and expenses. With regard to terrorism, on 4 December 2014, the ECHR condemned France to pay €52,000 in damages to Somali pirates in compensation for "moral damage", that of having been brought before an investigating judge 48 hours late. I specify that these pirates were arrested in 2008 for taking hostage French ships, Le Ponant and Le Carré d'As. In the area of family law, France was sentenced by two ECHR judgments in June 2014 for failing to transcribe birth certificates of children born abroad by surrogate mothers to the French civil registry. Even though the said judgments of 26 June 2014 grant France the right not to recognize pregnancy for others, which is so far prohibited in France by virtue of the principle of the unavailability of the human body, the ECHR, in the name of "the best interests of the child", obliges the French Republic to recognise all acts of civil status carried out abroad even when the birth is the result of a fraud against French law. These judgments thus nullify the freedom of States not to recognize any legal effect on GPA. The use of surrogate mothers is a serious act, which amounts to considering that a child can be a product that is bought, and the woman who manufactures it, her mother, a tool of production. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Again, on 27 January 2015, the ECHR condemned Italy for having withdrawn from a couple who had violated Italian law the child he had purchased in Russia 49000 euros from a company specializing in GPA, and to pay him 30,000 euros in damages. National elected officials, as well as the citizens they represent, can no longer accept that some judges may arrogate the possibility of granting rights by flouting democratically established provisions and deviating the principles of law; the right, in the name of dogmatic and political positions and without any democratic legitimacy, to flout our fundamental principles and to defy human rights, which should be a bulwark against indignity and exploitation. Therefore, I say to you: it is a service to the European construction that such a speech of truth is to be held here before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u59	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u60	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Human Rights was established on 4 November 1950. It is responsible for ensuring respect for the rights guaranteed by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which it exercises in the 47 member states of the Council of Europe. It must be noted that it is a victim of its success, which we can, I think, congratulate us collectively. For the past ten years, we have seen an average increase of 10% per year in the number of referrals, which now exceeds 60,000. Given the legal context, we can estimate that this phenomenon, far from being tarnished, will experience strong growth. In order to ensure optimum effectiveness in the practical implementation of the principles of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in all the countries concerned, a conference on the future of the ECHR was held. It proposed to assign an advisory function to the Court, by choosing, in a reasonable manner, the non-binding nature of its opinions, in accordance with the principle of European subsidiarity. It is therefore very logical that we are now considering the ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention, which was adopted on 10 July 2013 by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Protocol establishes a new mechanism, which will take place upstream of the referral itself by individuals or associations and which will enable the Court to deliver non-binding opinions to the highest national courts and to the governments concerned. Beyond a real improvement in the harmonisation of rules and law within the Member States, we must see here a clear desire to establish a permanent dialogue between national and European judges and to clarify the law by creating a harmonious European case law. While it is true that the European Convention on Human Rights does not today constitute a legal tool formally incorporated into the legal order of the European Union, the fundamental rights recognized by the Convention are nevertheless an integral part of European Union law as general principles. With regard to the proposed new mechanism, it is the national courts that will judge whether the referral is appropriate. Once seized, and after investigation, the ECHR will decide whether or not to give an opinion. If it decides to do so, the judges of the ECHR will be able to give their opinion and will be able to give their opinion both to the High Court at its request and to the State concerned. It is not, as we see it, a matter of establishing a primacy of the ECHR over our high national courts, because the opinions delivered will only be advisory and will not have to be followed ipso facto. On the other hand, consultations a priori by the high national courts will undoubtedly allow a stronger affirmation of the principles contained in the Convention and a constructive dialogue for national law; the feeling of European integration will prevail in the French justice system. For France, it is the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and the Court of Cassation that will be empowered to refer the matter to the ECHR for an opinion, in French, when they deem it useful, and this, of course, on facts relating to the principles of the Convention. These three courts and they alone will have the power to assess the appropriateness of the referral; the parties to the dispute will not have it under any circumstances. However, in the event that the opinion delivered by the ECHR is not followed by a national court, the parties to the dispute will always have the possibility, under Article 34 of the Convention, to exercise their right of individual appeal, thus allowing them, in an unprecedented way, to rely before the ECHR on the opinion given a priori in a national case. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The aim is, therefore, to prevent as much as possible, by anticipating violations of the Convention and by preventing numerous requests from increasing the functioning of the ECHR, while strengthening, as we have said, the dialogue between the judges. This Protocol is non-binding; It will have little impact on the functioning and work of our administrations and jurisdictions, but it will certainly improve the legal tools of our high national courts and, above all, of all French litigants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u61	Mrs Valérie Thomas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u62	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there are late dawns which are not without hope. They are often even made of these long-awaited revolutions, of these decisions that have become hopeless, of these absences that are too long to be erased. The history of Europe, which the founding fathers have built, is made up of these great victories, these small, indispensable advances, founding treaties and handshakes that bring peoples closer together. The creation of the Council of Europe and the adoption of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms are part of these great moments, which, sometimes, we do not measure the scope, or not the full scope. More than 30 years: this is the time it took France to ratify the European Convention on Human Rights. And it took thirty-nine years, almost two generations, for French citizens to invoke it directly. Yet, no one now imagines that we can't claim it. When political forces, in our neighbours, contest or question the foundations of democracy, for example the separation of powers, when some leaders of our world remake it in the light of their imagination, using fake news and making fear, sometimes, of the appearance of fake laws,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u63	In French, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u64	... the European Convention on Human Rights is a beacon, like our Constitution or the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. In a time when the lines are blurred, when some lose sight of what law and justice have been able to bring to our societies, to our civilization and to all of us, it is a guarantee that, always, the values, principles and rules that we share will remain engraved in the heart of our democracies, that each of us will always be able to take advantage of them. Ladies and gentlemen, as some previous speakers have said, the ratification of Protocol No 16, which will give our national courts the opportunity to question the European Court of Human Rights, will in a way complement the European integration process. While France had waited so long to bring the Convention fully into its law, it would now be one of the first States to ratify the Protocol. The authorization of this ratification will confirm the commitment of our majority, behind the President of the Republic, to a renewed European ambition. This ratification will show that the breath we have given since our election is not just a word, but also an act. It is in particular for this proactive European vision that we have been elected, and we must live up to this promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u65	By sleeping!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u66	We have already adopted two resolutions on this subject in this House, one to remind us of our commitment to the symbols of the European Union and the other to express our willingness to commit ourselves to a new Elysée Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u67	You were very numerous that day!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u68	Ratifying this protocol today is also part of a movement in our history. In fact, very often, the major European advances, both those of the Union and those of the Council of Europe, have taken place in great moments of progress: 1974, the date of ratification of the Convention, is also Simone Veil and the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy; 1981, the date of access to the referral for citizens, is also Robert Badinter working for the abolition of the death penalty. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the MODEM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this protocol, which will be devoted to the dialogue of judges and will allow our national courts to refer the matter to the ECHR, is a fine text. It is for all these reasons that I shall vote for the approval of ratification. My group and I invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u69	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u70	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u71	Two speakers are inscribed on the single article. First of all, Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u72	Today, once again, by virtue of the principle of "always further", by this ratification which some call for their wishes, we would like to submit a little more France to Europe, more particularly to the ECHR. However, it is not possible to question the real problem posed by France's submission to the ECHR with regard to decisions in such important areas as terrorism, security or GPA. What is really a problem for me is that no people are involved in the appointment of the members of this body, which is not controlled by anyone. People have long been evacuated, while the ability to decide their destiny, through, at least, the choice of their representatives, within the framework of democratic institutions, is supposed to be the basis of the rule of law. This is our main concern: we are widening the gap between peoples and Europe a little further. The desire to keep citizens away from decision-making centres a little further becomes a trademark of our governments: mayors are replaced by agglomerations or communities of communes; the departments are replaced by the major regions; Today, our national judges are being supplanted by the ECHR. To hide behind the advisory nature of opinions is, to say the least, hypocritical. Your own report, the rapporteur, states that "it would be contrary to common sense not to follow them". Therefore, it is likely that national courts will agree with the opinions delivered by the ECHR. In short, it is another step towards predictive justice that you seem to call for your wishes. We cannot, in conscience, submit a little more. I repeat, the ECHR should not be regarded as the last degree of our judicial order. The protection of fundamental rights must be the responsibility of our judges. They are competent and aware of what the French general interest is, so let us trust them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u73	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u74	On the merits, we have no objection to the possibility that the high national courts may obtain an advisory opinion from the European Court of Human Rights. We do not infuse any sense of respect for this institution. However, the use of the consultation procedure provided for in Protocol No 16 raises a two-pronged question. First, it is known that it is not for the Constitutional Council to examine the conformity of the laws referred to it with the European Convention on Human Rights, since it considers that it does not have to "examine the conformity of a law with the provisions of an international treaty or agreement". In short, he would ask for an opinion without having to take it into account, which seems strange to us. Secondly, if the Constitutional Council is granted the right to make use of the procedure, it will be de facto qualified as a high court, which it is not currently because its members do not have the status of magistrate. It should be noted, in passing, that the Council would be qualified as a court under the procedure of the request for an opinion to the European Court of Human Rights, which does not recognize it as such, which would at least be a paradox. It is up to Parliament to assess whether or not the Constitutional Council can qualify as a court of law. The subject seems to us to deserve a debate in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u75	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u76	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u77	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u78	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the guidance and success of students (No 663).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u79	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u80	Madam President, Vice-President of the Joint Joint Committee, Mr Bruno Studer, Rapporteur of the Joint Committee, Mr Gabriel Attal, ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of the draft law on the guidance and success of students, there is an ambition: to accompany more high school students and students towards higher education and success. It is the backbone of this text, it is the compass that I have set myself, and it is this objective, I know, that we have shared very widely throughout each stage of parliamentary work. Everyone has seen it well, massification has been done, both at school and at university, and it is a good thing, but democratization remains to be done: to achieve it and to succeed, this is the challenge for us. For this reason, in addition to the unacceptable malfunctions in the process of entering higher education, the Government has sought to build a student plan that addresses the whole question of access to higher education, both in its educational and material components. The student plan is a block; It provides concrete answers to concrete questions, and does not separate pedagogical support from prevention policies and action for student life. With this ambition in mind, I have endeavoured, throughout the preparation and consideration of this bill, to engage in the widest possible dialogue with all the actors in higher education and the political forces represented in this House. Indeed, the stakes are particularly important; The future of our youth is one of the great causes that can bring together very widely. That is why I wanted to establish this project on a sound and solid basis, by opening wide-ranging consultations as early as July and leading it throughout the summer. Everyone's voice has been listened to and heard, enriching this student plan, which, I said at the moment, translates an overall vision and a global requirement: to be at the side of our youth, to inform them, to accompany them and to give them the freedom to make real choices, i.e. informed and constructed choices. We owe it to all of our youth. The key challenge is to make all our future students master of their future, regardless of their project and whatever their territory or background. Today, as we know, not all of us are equal in our higher education system. Inequalities are there, between sectors, between territories, between socio-occupational categories. The Government's ambition is to reduce them, not by reducing the freedom of some, but on the contrary by allowing each of the future students to be fully in control of their choices. The freedom to decide its future cannot be a privilege; It must be guaranteed to all. That's the whole meaning of this student plan. Identify ways and means of achieving this by providing specific and concrete answers to the difficulties faced by students, this is what we have done together. I would like to stress the remarkable quality of the parliamentary work carried out on this text, in particular by the National Assembly, which has done more than mark this project: it has appropriated it and given it its meaning. From the stage of the examination in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, under the guidance of President Bruno Studer, whom I would like to thank warmly, you have made a profound change in this text. Of course, I am thinking of the many amendments adopted on the initiative of your rapporteur, Gabriel Attal – whom I also very warmly welcome – which have helped to make Parcoursup the unique platform for entry into public or state-recognised higher education. I am also thinking, in a different register, of the admission of students to the board of directors of the National Health Insurance Fund – CNAM – or of the introduction of a national scoping of expectations. Finally, I welcome the rapporteur's willingness to ensure equality between all students by retaining the principle of a single amount for student life contributions, regardless of the level of education. The Committee on Social Affairs has also worked to structure the field of student prevention. An annual prevention programme will be carried out as a follow-up to the actions carried out at national level by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. At the local level, student prevention conferences will bring together all stakeholders to meet this challenge on a daily basis. Political groups have made a significant contribution to these developments in the draft law. I warmly thank Anne Brugnera and all the members of the La République group on the move, as well as Philippe Berta, for the MODEM group. All of them participated in this work in a spirit of openness, dialogue and accountability, and many amendments were adopted. The adoption of these amendments has made it possible to go much further by taking into account the particular situations of many bachelors. It is at your instigation that not only future students with disabilities, but also the ultramarine bachelors or French high schools abroad have been able to find their full place in this device. Your amendments have made it possible to strike a fair balance, guaranteeing everyone, whatever their situation, every opportunity to access higher education in the best possible conditions, which is the objective of the text. You have also had an ongoing concern with the monitoring and evaluation of the device. In addition to the report on the application of the proper functioning of the procedure, I welcome the work carried out by Cédric Villani on the advertising of the source code of the algorithm of the Trackup platform. It is essential to restore the confidence that was undermined by the difficulties encountered last summer. The opposition has also taken its place. If I do not narrow down the deep differences that can separate us, it was essential that the debate take place – and it took place. Beyond these differences, the National Assembly has been able to grasp all the concrete proposals leading to real progress. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the proposed scheme to the preparatory classes and the BTS, or of the proposals which led to Article 2b laying down the principles of a modular and capitalizable education: I know that Patrick Hetzel has the full scope. The text adopted in the Senate also gave concrete expression to Annie Genevard's desire to give her full place to the French language in higher education. I would also like to have a word for Nicole Sanquer, Philippe Gomès and the UDI-Agir group, whose amendments have made it possible to give their full place to the ultramarine territories in this bill. Almost sixty-seven amendments had been adopted in committee and in open session on a text that initially had only six articles. The vast majority of these contributions are included in the draft law resulting from the work of the Joint Committee: that is, the quality of the improvements that have been made. The text of the CMP is, by its very nature, a meeting point between the two Assemblies. The task was not easy; There were real and profound differences on central points of the bill. I welcome the work led by Members of Parliament and senators, which has helped to reach agreement on this text, which I am sure meets the expectations of the National Assembly. The main thing is this: the opening up of higher education to all bachelor's degrees, regardless of their field of study, their course or their project. It is a baccalaureate whose first grade status in higher education is confirmed and consolidated. It is a clear and transparent access procedure, whose arbitrary drawing of lots is banned. It is an unprecedented effort of information and support, which allows each bachelor to have a complete vision of the trainings, their content and their expectations in order to mature their choice. Essentially, it is an entry procedure in which students have the last word about their future and are able to choose to the end between the possibilities offered to them. Essentially, reception capacity is established by the State, in conjunction with institutions, which guarantees the regulatory role of the State. I want to be clear on this point which, I know, has given rise to questions and sometimes to emotion: nothing in the bill before you authorizes the conduct of a Malthusian policy of reducing reception capacity under any pretext whatsoever. There is no way to establish a mechanical link between reception capacity and employment integration rates. I would also like to make this very clear: there would be no sense in pretending to pilot reception skills through the direct vocational integration of training, firstly because this criterion would not work, because it does not make the departure between further education and integration. This is why the concept of "opportunities for occupational integration", which requires long-term reflection and consideration of the emergence of new trades and skills needs, has been retained. I say this very clearly: the prospects for occupational integration have nothing to do with the rates of integration observed. It is a question of having a broad forward-looking vision, which can only create new training. This is a major development guaranteed by the CMP text. More deeply, no one can reduce the mission of higher education to preparation for occupational integration. The role of the university, its vocation, is to create knowledge, to transmit it in all disciplinary fields, to concern itself with occupational integration and to ensure the dissemination of scientific and technological culture. These are the four core missions of universities. This is why the training and research project of the institutions must be taken into account. Its own academic and scientific needs must be recognized. The reference to the training and research project is clearly included in the bill. Last but not least, the Government could not have accepted that the wishes of prospective students should not be the point of entry for the establishment of any capacity for reception. This is why their training project has been reintroduced into the text. It was, from the outset, the central criterion, which is at the heart of the reform: to develop an offer of training that allows our young people to find and choose their way. In connection with the universities, it is the rectors, under my authority, who will have to set the capacity for reception. In the current demographic context, of course, no downward movement can be accepted. I am the guarantor and the Government will take all necessary steps, including, if necessary, through regulations, in order to provide all the necessary clarity on this point. Rectors are already working with universities to create additional places. This work shows this: the reception capacities increase sharply, especially in the fields that were in tension, in STAPS – science and techniques of physical and sports activities –, in law or in PACES – the first year common to health studies. Essentially, it is the creation of a principle of accompaniment towards success for all students, with higher education institutions that are already taking advantage of these new tools to welcome future bachelors more widely in all their diversity. The "yes, yes", which is at the heart of this bill, is the very concrete translation of the commitment of the institutions, at the service of the success of all the students. I will be very careful that each of the future bachelors can actually benefit from this accompaniment. I have met with the educational teams throughout the last few weeks, in Strasbourg, Marseille, Bordeaux, Nantes or Lyon. I've seen more than 80% of university presidents. I can confirm to you that the teachers-researchers are everywhere at work to think, build and propose real paths of success. I would like to pay tribute to their work before the national representation because it is simply remarkable. The essential thing is the guarantee given by the State, through a rector, that a proposal will be made to everyone, as close as possible to his wishes. Essentially, it is an unprecedented effort in the service of student health. Essentially, it is a year of caesure now open to all students. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This bill is a major step forward for all students. Its ambition is to give young people their full place, at the centre of a higher education with wide open doors to all those who wish to join it and to take into account the needs, expectations and requirements of our students. That is the whole meaning of this text, which the Government invites you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u81	Mr Gabriel Attal, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u82	Madam President, Madam Minister, Vice-President of the Joint Joint Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today the text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the guidance and success of students. Meeting in the Senate last Tuesday, this committee reached agreement on the articles of the bill that remain under discussion between the two chambers. This agreement is the result of a substantive work done with the Senate rapporteur, Jacques Grosperrin, to whom I would like to pay tribute, which has been carried out with the keen sense of responsibility that we have and the need to send a message to the students currently at the senior level who, having already begun to register their wishes on the new Parcoursup platform, are waiting to know their future assignment. They must be able to move forward in confidence. Without calling into question the general balance of the text initiated by the Government and, I sincerely believe, improved by the Assembly, the Senate had made substantial changes and inserted a significant number of articles, not all of which had a direct connection to the text. In the course of the discussions, however, we were collectively committed to maintaining a link with the heart of reform. The CMP has also deleted several of these articles and has kept others: I am thinking for example of the fundamental issue of the mastery of the French language, which was defended in this Chamber at first reading by our President, Annie Genevard. I would like to commend his work, which ultimately led to the Senate, at the instigation of the rapporteur, Jacques Grosperrin. Several points were the subject of intense discussions within the CMP, without preventing the adoption of a compromise solution, proposed jointly by the two rapporteurs. The first concerned the establishment of the facilities' capacity: the Senate wanted the new places to be created on the basis of professional opportunities. We considered that such an approach was reductive and did not cover all the missions of the university, in particular the indispensable transfer of knowledge. We have therefore added to the criteria for opening places the projects of the schools and, above all, the wishes of the students. Moreover, these criteria have already been taken into account, since the Government has announced the creation of places in the supply chain, i.e. those requested by the bachelors. The reception capacity is increasing sharply, and the minister reminded us at the moment that it will not be possible to reduce it in the years to come. Of course, we support this very clear commitment. I therefore want to be perfectly clear on this point: the majority does not commit themselves, and will not commit itself, to any form of "adaptationism", and this text does not provide for it. That would make no sense. At a time when everyone agrees that tomorrow's world of work will not be today's world of work and that many of today's jobs will no longer exist tomorrow, professional opportunities cannot be seen as the only compass to create places. We need to trust universities and institutions, in their academic, scientific and academic choices, to anticipate these developments. I would also like to make it clear that France needs, and will always need, researchers, sociologists, doctoral students or linguists. France is the land of the Enlightenment: its knowledge enlightens the world. That is why we will need all its capabilities and the commitment of all its universities to keep it that way. This text is, of course, a step in that direction. The second point of discussion was the power of assignment of rectors for students who have not seen any of their wishes satisfied – we wish their number as few as possible. The Senate wanted the heads of institutions to have a veto, which we felt was impossible and likely to break the system at a time – in the middle of the summer – when everyone's greatest reactivity will be needed. This right of veto has been removed in favour of an in-depth dialogue and the possibility for the institution to condition the student's reception to integration into a path of educational accompaniment and success, as we have put in place for the vast majority of students who will have to engage in it. A third key issue was the question of extra-community student fees: the Senate wanted to see the possibility for universities to increase them in law. We were much more reluctant. The question had been raised at first reading in the House: we had opposed this measure for a number of reasons which do not need to be recalled today. At the CMP, the Senate agreed to the deletion of this measure, in exchange for which, despite our initial reluctance, we agreed to the inclusion in the text of a provision relating to the monitoring of student attendance, considering that it was, after all, a mere reminder of the existing law, which was already set by regulation. The drafting adopted by the CMP nevertheless ensures that a measure is proposed which concerns all students in order not to stigmatise scholarship students, for whom the rules are already laid down by a very precise circular – I said so. The text that I propose to adopt has been enriched by the National Assembly and the Senate, in the final framework of the CMP. It is in line with the student plan. That is why I do not understand the assertion, which has been heard in the last few hours, that it has been emptied of its substance by Parliament. On the contrary, Parliament has enriched it. It is Parliament which has included a national scoping in the setting of expectations, to avoid dumping between establishments or to rule out socially unjust expectations. It was Parliament's wish that all the superior's training should be included on the Pathup, with a view to ensuring greater readability for candidates and their families in the pursuit of their studies. Parliament has introduced a quota of fellows in the preparatory classes. It was also Parliament that wanted a student representative to be present on the health insurance board. Indeed, at a time when we were repatriating several million students with the abolition of the student social security system, it seemed to us normal that they should be represented on the board of directors in order to promote their specific health and prevention needs. Finally, Parliament has increased the transparency of the reform – The minister recalled this: on an initiative of Cédric Villani, an amendment was adopted ensuring the publication of the algorithm of the Pathup platform. We have set out several criteria for transparency, including the submission of a report on the application of the law with statistics by academy on the procedure and its outcome or on the number of student candidates and their opportunities, with a view to understanding all the implications of the reform. This text is therefore in line with the student plan presented by the Government. This plan allows all young people in France to have access to quality guidance, while we know that inequalities with regard to guidance are real and often a social marker. It provides for two principal teachers in each class, two weeks of senior orientation and the presence of student ambassadors in high schools. It allows all young people in France to benefit from better information on the various fields, their pedagogical models, their vocational integration rate, the opportunities, the success rate and the conditions for pursuing a master's degree. This information is centralized on the Routeup platform, on which several hundred thousand young people have already registered. This plan makes it possible to build real paths of support and help with success to comfort the young people who arrive at university without having the same baggage as the others and who were previously taken blindly to failure. It also allows us to build modulated and transdisciplinary paths, so that students can gradually specialize, validate achievements constantly without having to start all over again in the event of failure, move forward with serenity and confidence without fear of repetition, which is often perceived as a failure and which leads to the loss of self-confidence. This plan also allows for a concrete purchasing power gain for students and their families, with the abolition of the contribution of 217 euros per year previously paid by young people and their families under student social security. At a time when we are talking a lot about purchasing power, it seems to me important to highlight this concrete gesture, which will benefit the middle classes in particular. We can therefore be proud of the work we have done collectively. I would obviously like to greet my colleagues Anne Brugnera, for the La République group on the move, and Philippe Berta, for the MODEM group, who have animated the work of their groups with a lot of talent and determination, in a sometimes somewhat difficult context, but I think we have worked very well together. I also welcome all the groups represented in this House, with which we have exchanged and debated the substance on an ongoing basis. In particular, I welcome my colleague Christine Cloarec, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, who has really contributed to the adoption of the measures I have recalled on student social security and the strengthening of prevention in the field of health, in order to better take into account the needs of young people in this field. It is therefore a great and great reform that we are about to vote on. It ends the draw, but it goes further as it strengthens the orientation and support of young people with one goal: to make success accessible to all and to ensure that failure is no longer the rule for most students. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude by welcoming you, Madam Minister, and by telling you that I am proud to have carried along with you this reform that you have built and defended with courage and determination. I was very proud and very happy to accompany you on this path. I learned a lot from our exchanges. I am very proud that this reform is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u83	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u84	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the agreement reached this week between the old and the new right in the Joint Joint Committee, I am about to defend a motion to reject this text beforehand on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The arguments that you have used to justify this reform are not only doubtful, erroneous and tainted, but also a weakness that conflicts with the importance of a text that undermines the foundations of our education system. Indeed, this reform of access to the first cycle of the university is part of a much broader framework, that of a global attack on this system, shifting it from collective to individual and from non-profit to commodification. Already, we are witnessing the first failures of Parcoursup, the first anxieties of the bachelors and their parents, the strengthening of the social inequalities that result therefrom. But as a parliamentarian, what displeases me once again is that we divest the national representation of its primary functions in favour of a strictly undemocratic forced march. Let me first make a brief historical reminder of the repeated strikes against the principles of the university, which, according to Humboldt, are freedom of choice and emancipation, and to which we subscribe of course. In 1967, fifty-one years ago, when the first massification of access to higher education was taking place, Alain Peyrefitte had already tried to set up a first form of selection to respond to the so-called student failures. You know what's next. [[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] In 1986, just over 30 years ago, the Devaquet Act once again attempted to introduce a form of university selection and increase the fees. There followed a student movement whose repression and death of Malik Oussekin will forever mark the militant memory. During the 1990s, while the number of students was rising sharply as a result of Jean-Pierre Chevènement's ambition to raise 80% of an age class to the level of the baccalaureate, the university plan 2000 – known as U 2000 – was launched; It provided for the construction of eight new universities with a funding plan of 32 billion francs over five years. In 2006, with the first job contract – CPE – we were once again told that the universities were poorly trained in the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u85	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u86	But instead of challenging the labour market, the university system was being recast. In 2007, the Law on the Freedoms and Responsibilities of Universities – LRU Law – conferred autonomy on universities without transferring the means to them. As a result, there are fewer hours of courses and fewer teachers-researchers. Today, in 2017, we are seeing a new student population boom, equivalent to three average universities. But instead of drawing inspiration from the U 2000 plan of the late 1990s, the Government felt a window of opportunity to finally fulfill the dream of its many predecessors, namely the establishment of selection at the university.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u87	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u88	To justify this, the majority once again hammered two old arguments: the unfairness of the draw and the failure to license.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u89	If you're in favour of drawing lots, say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u90	Indeed, my dear colleague, we agree with the first of these arguments: the drawing of lots is unfair – I repeat for the twentieth time – and we are opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u91	We'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u92	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] But the reality of this draw, agitated like a red rag, is not so catastrophic. Only 3,500 out of 800,000 bachelors were drawn by lot in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u93	No, 65,000!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u94	Increase the university's budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u95	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] This is not a strong argument for legislating,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u96	Let us speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u97	Only Mrs Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u98	...otherwise to open new places. Similarly, with regard to the second argument, you look at the 60% failure figure in the first year. But this figure, far from being a failure, hides very different situations, and you know it well. Students reorient themselves after their first year; others repeat because of an associative commitment or because they are forced to work to finance their studies; Still others register at the university to prepare a competition. This diversity of courses is therefore not a characteristic of failure, but indeed a reflection of freedom of choice in the course of his studies. In addition, I would like to remind you one last time, 80% of French students leave university with a degree. This rate, which has not changed in the last 30 years, is 10 points higher than the OECD average. Let us agree: it is not a question of saying that everything is perfect in the present system, so much so. We simply say loud and clear that these technocratic arguments serve a political choice that you also hide. What is this choice? In the code of education, you delete the sentence that engraved in the marble the republican principle already mentioned of freedom of enrolment in the superior, rather than launching a plan of massive construction of university sites. Under the pretext of a constrained budgetary framework, it is unthinkable for you to engage in such a plan while youth should be our priority. But where does this budgetary framework and constraint come from? I will not mention the various and varied gifts made to the ultra-rich in the last finance bill. Nor will I note the executive's inaction in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. I note, however, that the Government is about to commit EUR 300 billion over seven years for our army, while all the unions of the superior – I say all these unions – agree to ask for an increase in the budget for higher education and research of EUR 1 billion per year for ten years to reach 2% of GDP, as is the case for many of our European neighbours. Let us be clear: no one here questions the necessary funding for our army. We simply believe that we need all young people who wish to do so, in all their diversity, to have access to higher education in order to meet the major environmental and societal challenges ahead. This requires strategic investments accordingly. We condemn your political project, which does not respond to these challenges, but to an economic logic that translates into the globalized commodification of higher education. Shanghai's ranking, investments of excellence and future investment programs are all tools for a true carrot and stick policy that will inexorably lead us to a two-speed university. A two-tier university, between institutions of excellence and those known as "neighbourhood". A two-speed university, between the students selected to prepare their bachelor's degree in two or three years and those who will be obliged to follow specific courses in four years. A two-speed university, between the students admitted to the master's degree and those who will leave the baccalaureate system plus three. A two-speed university for, finally, a two-speed society. We are not opposed to the accompanying arrangements proposed by the law, but to the fact that they condition entry into the first cycle. We believe that, when we are of voting age, working and paying taxes, we are able to choose what is best suited to our family, professional or associative situation, without this being imposed on us. Rather than trying to erase social determinisms, your reform aggravates them by organizing a real social selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u99	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u100	First, by the self-censorship of the bachelors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u101	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u102	Sociologists alerted us to the repulsive psychological effect that the expected ones could present by discipline. When the platform indicates that, for a given sector, the success rate of students coming from vocational or technological lycée is only 5%, how can it be envisaged?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u103	You'd rather lie to the students?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u104	On the other hand, the obligation to accept specific courses which may prolong one year's studies will prevent many young people from starting. A year of study costs around 10000 euros and, even if the compulsory teaching arrangements do not add an additional year, they will increase the time spent by students. How will the 50% of young people have to work to study? If they don't have the opportunity to work next door, they simply won't go to the superior. In addition, selection is not limited to the candidate's results: some fields require the practice of extracurricular activities, which is not without creating a clear inequality between young people according to the social situation of their parents. Finally, you put in place a social selection because only families with sufficient cultural capital, those whose parents have studied in the superior, will be able to guide their children to be selected in a stream of excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u105	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u106	This guidance work, our young people will have to do it from the age of 15. And this is where the modularisation of the baccalaureate and high school, another piece of the puzzle of this gigantic challenge to our education system, comes in to accompany this reform of access to university. In concrete terms, this means that our young people will have to follow a linear path, to be put on tracks that lead directly from the second class to the labour market without changing the switch.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u107	You'd rather they were unemployed?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u108	What's this world we make for them? Why would today's young people not have the same right to the error as we had at their age? Who thus allows himself to decide the aspirations of young people, if not the technocrats who have themselves followed a predetermined path nourished by social reproduction? Grand lycées, grand prepas, grandes écoles...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u109	Your presentation is dishonest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u110	Excellence – though... – but only for a few. For those who have only economic capital, don't worry. I opened yesterday the supplement "Universities and Grand Schools" of the World which praised the merits of the Anglo-Saxon bachelor's degree, presented as a concrete and professionalizing training adapted to the world of business. Turning the page, I was not surprised to discover a full page of advertising for a bachelor's degree from a private school. Private guidance coaches already charge their so-called advice between 300 and 1000 euros for those who can afford it. But for the less well-off, it will be up to the teachers to advise or advise against the choices of guidance of the students. The National Office for Information on Teachings and Professions – ONISEP – has lost fifty posts since 2013 and has to respond to a very large influx of demands since the announcement of the reform. How to allow individualized and individualized follow-up for each child?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u111	In the classrooms, with the main teachers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u112	By relying on the information and guidance centres – IOC? They close one after another to regroup in one place. How to get there when you don't have a vehicle or need more than an hour and a half of public transport from one suburb to another? The commodification of education will continue. Apart from the arrival of paid private lessons of eloquence to prepare the great oral desired by the Minister of National Education in his reform of the baccalaureate, how can we not imagine the establishment, in the future, of private preparatory classes – as is already done in medicine – so that the students can pass the stage of selection? Another example: while this was not the case for the Post-Bac Admission platform – PDB –, we now find training courses offered by private non-contracted institutions, such as BTSs of international trade. There are no places in public education? The private one opens its doors... for a year-to-year cost ten times higher and teachings not validated by the ministry. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, what was not my astonishment when I learned that an algorithm applicable to student transcripts allowed them to be weighed according to the original institutions. Thus, a score of 14 out of 20 obtained in a high school in Seine-Saint-Denis would be worth 12, while the same score obtained in a great Parisian high school would be worth 18. I also discovered in the press that a student from Seine-Saint-Denis could not ask for a Parisian university on the platform, on the pretext that it was not part of the recruitment pool of this training. How can we develop and cultivate openness to the world of our children when they are so assigned to residence?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u113	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u114	Yes, Madam Minister, this is a student from Suger High School in Seine-Saint-Denis. Let me now turn to the undemocratic nature of this reform. You have decided to use the so-called "Tactic of Salami", which is to divide this total overhaul of the education system into several legislative measures, which undermines the overall logic. In addition, some of these measures are taken by order and others by regulation, without prior control of Parliament. All this goes back to the principles of sincerity and clarity in the public debate. Finally, the educational community is being asked to set in motion and implement a law that is still not passed – as we are talking about it today. What a contempt for the parliamentary debate! A government order has been made pursuant to the law that we are still discussing: after you have reversed the hierarchy of norms in social law, you do so in constitutional law. In this regard, I welcome the suspensive appeal to the Council of State by our Communist colleagues in the Senate. To this anti-democratic logic is added a form of urgency – not to say: precipitation. The Government has been quick to negotiate in the CMP certain measures introduced by the Senate. Even a little watered down, the principle is this: you condition the reception capacity to the occupational integration rate. As a gift to the MEDEF, you connect the university directly to the labour market, i.e. to the needs of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u115	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u116	You may say it's not true, but it's a fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u117	Yes, we say it's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u118	You have to go fast...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u119	Yes, we have to go fast: we have already ruined a generation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u120	... before the appeals succeed, and the mobilization is structured. Many campuses are blocked – in Nantes, Besançon, Paris and Poitiers. The first coracs of the platform will occur and public opinion will understand what is really happening: selection, house arrest or registration in private channels out of price.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u121	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u122	We have done our part in this House by opposing this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u123	With the success we know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ...and decrypting it. We will continue to inform, alert and raise awareness of students, parents and teachers everywhere in France because, whatever you say, Madam Minister, this bill organizes a university at the service of the economic world, designed not to exercise a free choice, but to implement a path of success in a socially and culturally predetermined way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u125	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u126	I didn't initially plan to answer, but in the face of so many misconceptions and outbursts, I couldn't help but stand up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u127	You're the one who's out of the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u128	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You accuse us of using a "salami tactic" that we don't really understand. To give your charcutière metaphor, it seems to me that you think we're hams. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You say that we remove, with this bill, the possibility for bachelors to continue their studies in the higher education. The first words of the article we are amending are: "The first cycle is open to all bachelor's graduates".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u129	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u130	It is written black and white in the bill that we are considering today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u131	They're just words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u132	You're creating a two-speed system!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u133	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You're accusing us of draining the budget for higher education. However, the Minister announced an additional EUR 700 million next year and a further EUR 1 billion on the quinquennium. These are not Monopoly tickets: this is money for the university, for researchers and for teachers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You accuse us of wanting to create a two-speed university, but what is the university today, with 60% failure in the first year of a bachelor's degree?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u134	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u135	Young people who fail today are those who have the least ability to succeed, who are less likely than others, and who are given the least means to succeed at university. You deny reality. Open your eyes: the two-speed university exists, it is the reality of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u136	You must be aware that you look at reality through a filter! It's called criticism – and it's learning at university, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u137	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We are responding by putting in place accompanying mechanisms against which you voted and which you rejected, contrary to what you say. Mr. Mélenchon made it very clear that he was opposed to personalized accompaniment to enable young people to succeed: assume it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You even manage to oppose the information provided to students on the Pathup platform. In your opinion, it is not normal to tell the students enrolled in the professional baccalaureate that they now have a 5% chance of succeeding in the general field. You say that it is not normal to inform them: you should therefore lie to them, hide the situation and let them continue to move towards channels where we know very well that they will fail?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u138	We have to increase the number of places!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u139	We inform them so that they can make their choice with knowledge and give them the necessary support to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u140	You can see that you are organizing the selection!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u141	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Finally, Mrs Rubin, we have been working here for weeks and even months and waiting to know what your project for higher education is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u142	Don't be so arrogant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u143	You say that we do not respect parliamentary law, but what have we been doing here for months and weeks to discuss amendments? We are doing parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u144	You have a project, we have another one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u145	Mr President, please let the rapporteur speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u146	I'm just answering him! He's so aggressive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u147	When you say that Parliament has not worked, it is an insult not only to all our colleagues, but also to the services of this House and the administrations, as well as to the parliamentary collaborators who have worked, drafted amendments and allowed this reform to be adopted today. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] For months we have been waiting for you to tell us what you want to do for higher education and what your alternative plan is, without an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u148	Read our program!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u149	For months, we've been waiting to know what you're planning to do to end the draw in higher education. We have not received an answer in this House. You have created a training institute for your activists, which offers online courses on different topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u150	Read our program instead of talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u151	I have therefore listened to the courses given on higher education and research by Mr Paul Vannier, in charge of the part devoted to education of the programme of La France insoumée, and I will read to you word for word what he said to your activists and members: "We are not in favour of drawing lots in principle, but the drawing of lots and egalitarianity. He's blind. He doesn't choose the one he falls on. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u152	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u153	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] "It led to the elimination of very good high school students, sometimes with mentions, who did not find a place at the university. But the indiscriminate draw could eliminate children from the most privileged categories of our country, while the reform of the Government protects them. That is the truth you are refusing to accept in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u154	You omit to quote the beginning of the sentence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u155	It's low polemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u156	You are for the draw because it excludes university students, because it takes everyone into failure and you do not want collective success.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u157	Yes! This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u158	Worse still: with these words, you imply that only the favored students today succeed in school and university. It is contempt for the students of the modest and popular categories who succeed. However, there are magnificent paths, the paths of excellence of young people who come from popular backgrounds and who succeed at university and beyond.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u159	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u160	[[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You deny their success and their work. It's absolutely lamentable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u161	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote on this motion, the floor is for Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u162	Mr Attal, it is not necessary to be so aggressive in your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u163	I'm not aggressive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u164	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] It's not because you get mad at our position that you have to bark like you do. We support the motion to reject. You're an incredible arrogance. The popular classes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u165	Of which we are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Taurine has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u167	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] If you could avoid screaming... I understand, however, that you are very upset with what we are saying. You take every opportunity to declare that you are in the popular class, when that is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u168	We're in! Why don't you come and see my house? I'll invite you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u169	For our part, we are on the ground and know what we are proposing, because we have a very built-up programme. It would be enough for you to read it. We are therefore in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u170	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u171	In the face of the unfair drawing of lots, which had resulted in the lack of resources at the university, and the failures experienced by many students, two choices were possible. The first was to adopt a new ambition of the State for university and research, going back first to the evaluation of the laws Pecresse and Fioraso and to the competition of universities to draw consequences for the functioning of our higher education, and then making an important step, in terms of budgetary means, in favour of human supervision, reception and quality of teaching for all students. The other choice was to organize a "soft" selection: it's the one you made – I'll come back to that in my speech in general discussion. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Members of the GDR Group will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u173	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You will not be surprised to learn that the members of the La République on the move will not vote on this motion to reject, because the bill before us is ambitious and allows us to move from higher education for all to success in higher education for everyone. Contrary to what we heard in the defence of this motion, it is actually a reform of justice for students. Justice, in that it put an end to the drawing of lots, which was an easy solution and an unacceptable form of selection. Justice, in that it gives students the opportunity to choose their orientation. Better informed and benefiting from targeted support and more personalized courses, students will now have every chance of succeeding in higher education: this is the end of selection through failure. Justice, finally, in that it removes the €217 contribution to the student social security scheme and integrates students into the general scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We are for more justice for students and for their success in higher education, for the increase in the number of places in the fields of tension, for the freedom of choice of orientation, and therefore for the freedom of choice of their future. We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u175	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u176	In the general debate, Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u177	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the conclusion of the careful examination of a controversial and exciting text in many respects, given the subjects dealt with and their importance for the future of our young people. The Joint Joint Committee in which we participated on Tuesday saw a consensus between our colleagues in the Republican Group and those in the Republic Group on the move. However, it allowed us to revisit some of the Senate's additions that seemed to us to draw the text in a completely negative sense, such as the possibility for institutions to set a specific fee for international students. The CMP has also mitigated the rather surprising, if not socially despicable, proposal to tighten the conditions of attendance only for scholarship students, preferring a reminder of the existing rules on attendance. That said, the bill provides that, in the event that the candidates have not received a proposal, the rector may put them in training close to their initial wishes. Again, the CMP removed the veto that had been granted to the university president; The Rector is simply asked to respect the capacity to receive training in order not to affect candidates in already tense fields. In addition, institutions will have the opportunity to offer alternative training to the one suggested by the Rector and will be able to condition the candidate's registration to follow a support course. The students we have received are very concerned about taking into account the success and job integration rates to allow the student to follow a course. This temptation of "fitness" concerns the important student organizations that had initially accepted and followed this reform. They are also concerned about this new selection that does not say his name. Indeed, the expectations are of a purely informative nature, but it is clear that students placed on a waiting list will not be able to integrate the sector of their choice if they do not have such or such prerequisites. Competition between institutions and between students can therefore be feared, and above all an obstacle to equal access to knowledge. You're right to say that the draw was not acceptable...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u178	Ah! Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u179	...but to put an end to it, it would have been enough to set up this committee, with the allocation of the human resources requested by the Court of Auditors. By creating Pathup, you change the algorithm without fully knowing what the new algorithm will contain. While in the past students chose their university, it is feared that from now on it will be universities that choose their bachelor's degree. On the other hand, expectations set at national level can be reduced locally and therefore tightened. To separate similar files, some institutions will be able to apply for additional degrees, such as BAFA – a certificate of competence for the functions of facilitator –, a letter of recommendation from a lawyer to integrate a legal field or to enhance other experiences such as a stay abroad. We understand the concerns of the students. Throughout this debate, we have tried, while being quite objective in the analysis of what you are proposing, to relay these concerns to share them with you. It seems that, still today, you did not take it into account. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] More vexing for parliamentarians than we are, you have already begun to implement this bill while we are still debating it. Thus, Parcoursup is in place – 400,000 students are already enrolled – before Parliament has ruled. We really feel that our opinion does not differ from you: so you will not be surprised that we are not voting for a reform that does not care what we can think of it and does not take into account the most fragile students, and therefore the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u180	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u181	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the text before us today, you are creating a social border for hundreds of thousands of young people wishing to access higher education. There is indeed no other word to illustrate the selection at the university that you are putting in place. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] You would have had to overcome any principle of common sense in your law. To avoid any social challenge, you took advantage of the school holidays to speed up the implementation of the new entry platform in the superior, Parcoursup. As Sabine Rubin explained earlier, there will therefore be several remedies to counter this bizarreness of passing a government order even before the end of the legislative process – perhaps this is your way of thinking about parliamentary reality? [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The forced march to set up the new platform has also derailed our entire administrative system. As a result, many universities are not able to establish your expectations or seriously study the thousands of new issues that are coming – I will not recall Sabine Rubin's comments on the difficulty for the class councils, which will have to be seized of each of the ten wishes of each student. Your political office any jupiterian, led to the Hussard, can thus take on the appearance of administrative and legal Berezina. I invite you to look at the substance of this reform. Your bill is above all a cruel admission of failure. You say you want to end the draw of the previous PDB platform – very well! But do not use this mediocre pretext because in reality you do not solve the causes of the problem. When the number of students increases considerably, as is the case in our country – 800,000 more students between 2014 and 2015 – you have the choice between two possibilities: either you increase the reception capacity to deal with what is an investment for the future;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u182	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u183	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] ...or you push out some of the candidates. If you fail to break with the dogmas of European austerity, which prevent any public investment, you choose the second solution. Contrary to what you say, the budget increases you have chosen this year will not prevent the university's budget from falling by about 10% per student, as it has been for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u184	That's not true, it's increasing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u185	Your calculation is absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u186	But you do it in the cruelest, most unjustest and most cowardly way possible for our youth because you don't even have the courage to admit the setting up of the selection. So you put the blame on the young people themselves, betting on self-censorship, discouragement or lack of personal resources. How else can you understand your desire to have young people fill in a "skills portfolio", a curriculum vitae or letters of recommendation from the age of 17 or 18 to apply in a field? However, it should look at you: which young applicant for law studies may well have a recommendation from a lawyer: the son of a worker or the son of a lawyer? In your opinion, which young person applying to a journalism school can attest to having done an internship in a journalism sign: the son of a worker or the son of a journalist? Already, raptors trade the fear of failure and begin to vamp the money of young people and their families. To build good files, to avoid a refusal, a company offers a 360 euro orientation check. Another includes a " serenity formula" of 560 euros, in order to "make the files right". Another program provides 348 euros of coaching to create a good file on Parcoursup.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u187	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u188	The situation you are creating is intolerable. All these missions should have been those of the State; They should have been free. But no, in reality, you are establishing a principle: the greater your fortune, the more you can pass between the meshes of the net.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u189	Anything! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u190	[[Rites and exclamations on the REM benches]] That way, your bill is liberticide. It no longer allows young people to be free to study. As a result, you wilt the opportunity for thousands of young people to flourish and rise intellectually in the areas they would have chosen. You do not even realize that mediocrity thrives where passions die because it is sometimes in fields that were not planned for them that young people turn out to be the best mathematicians, geographers or philosophers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u191	What are you proposing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u192	With the reform of the baccalaureate you are preparing, which is the complement to this reform, you also end with the national value of the baccalaureate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u193	Curator!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u194	Reactionary Conservative!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u195	You thus put an end to one of the republican principles in the field of education: any holder of the baccalaureate can access higher education. It is not only the selection, but also the amputation of a fundamental freedom. So yes, there are other choices. To reply to Mr. Attal, who tends to think that only the running Republic program was offered to voters,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u196	They've cut!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u197	Your candidate didn't pass the first round!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u198	...we had another one: doubling the budget for higher education over five years; EUR 800 autonomy allowance for young people in training; creation of major thematic universities – sea, space –; having university places for anyone wishing to enrol in them; Finally, the rebalancing of the budget of the major schools, from which you come out most of the time, in relation to the university's budget. For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill. In recent weeks, many young people have mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u199	At your request!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u200	What if you tell them the truth, to change?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Even today, the Federation of General Student Associations – the FAGE –, the main student union, has just denounced your bill. I hope that young people will, as with the Devaquet Act and other selection projects, make it fall into the shadows of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u202	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u203	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Joint Joint Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at first reading I objected to this bill on the selection of baccalaureates and bachelor's degrees for entry into higher education. I am even more opposed to this today, as the text of the Joint Joint Committee leaves higher education institutions with the autonomy they have never had before to choose their students. Moreover, the result of this Joint Joint Committee means that the gathering of student associations against this project is widening. The majority has clearly chosen the selection and not the ambition that the progressives carry of a democratised higher education, allowing each one to emancipate through knowledge, to be master of his destiny, to contribute to the development and influence of France. You tell us that this reform is pragmatic. I see it as ideology: the ideology of reducing public investment, even if it feeds a society that accepts or even promotes inequalities – inequalities between baccalaureates and bachelors, some who can integrate the sector of their choice while the studies of others will be decided by the academic authority; territorial inequalities, with very well-equipped universities, corresponding to international standards and selecting the best students, while others will be without means, unable to adequately carry out their missions. This reform is also another step towards teaching for purely economic interests, forgetting the general interest. I once again affirm that education does not have the exclusive vocation of integration into the labour market, even if it is of paramount importance. Who knows the jobs of tomorrow? Who can know what the structure of the labour market will be in the coming years? Why limit the places in the fields on the basis of this criterion, except in order to satisfy a narrow and short-term view of what our country needs? This is the future we are preparing for at university. France needs the largest number of highly qualified, multidisciplinary young women and men motivated by what they do and in a position to master the great scientific, technological, societal and humanist challenges of tomorrow. France is at the forefront in many areas. We have this tremendous opportunity to have engineers, skilled workers, technicians, but also scientists in the sciences, in the humanities, millions of men and women who, in all fields, are among the best and make France today. How many of them, how many of them got there thanks to the French education system, which allowed them to go to university in the field of their choice? For lack of means, the university has begun, in recent years, to sort, until the iniquitous drawing by lot; and your law, far from reversing the trend, legalizes sorting. The system of expectations, with requirements such as internships, the individual examination of the files by the universities – with the "yes", the "yes but", the "no" – but also the lack of sufficient places will be the tools of this selection. The completion of the baccalaureate, if one still wants to keep the meaning of this diploma, must enable its holder to study in the field of his choice, because it is his future life. Arming high school students to make the right orientation choices, so they can thrive and succeed in university: yes! Build walls at the entrance: no! In an already very unequal school system, everything that impedes access to knowledge must be banned and combated. This requires the provision of financial and human resources to settlements. How many students, who were in difficulty at high school, who did not find their place or their happiness in the teachings offered, were able, at university, to flourish by studying what motivated them and becoming adults accomplished in their professional and personal life? Let us not give up the possibility for everyone to emancipate themselves through knowledge. Finally, I want to warn about the haste with which you are implementing the reform. The bill was not even under discussion in the Senate that the Parcoursup platform, which emanated directly from this text, was put in place. In addition, this year's baccalaureates and bachelors will discover the expected ones without having been able to prepare for them. All this is not serious: how do you want the students to be properly oriented? How do you want high school teaching staff to accompany them in good conditions? How will universities be able to deal individually and properly with all the cases of bachelor's and bachelor's degrees submitted to them? How can universities, already in difficult circumstances, ensure this path of success? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the FI group]] This is a completely different ambition that we need for higher education. Because we believe in an open university, whose primary mission is emancipation, not selection, the GDR group will vote resolutely against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u204	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u205	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly today has to deal for the last time with the bill on student guidance and success. This concludes a long debate with parliamentarians, but also and above all with the actors in higher education and high school, who, I would remind you, have been involved in the consultation prior to the student plan. I would like to associate Christine Cloarec, Fannette Charvier, Sylvie Charière, Agnes Thill, Céline Calvez, Jean-Luc Fugit and all my colleagues in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education who have been involved in this work. This bill, an important achievement of the society we want, is kind. All the changes it brings are geared towards student success. We want to increase the qualifications of all our young people and, for this, we are now opening the doors of higher education to all bachelors in fairness and transparency. We want – our country needs it – that each of our young people can go as far as they wish in training and on the path that best suits them. Knowledge is the most important asset. Both useful and cultural, it allows emancipation. The text is pragmatic, open and balanced. This bill is pragmatic, because it respects the commitment we made: to do what we say, to say what we do. Its objectives were included in our programme, its main elements are the result of wide-ranging consultation, its progress is financed – and I insist – and the tools necessary for Parliament to assess its implementation are provided for in the text itself. This bill is open. During our work in the National Assembly, it was enriched by the contribution of all political groups. It was, of course, completed during the work of the Senate and, even before yesterday, on a joint joint committee. It is a text whose drafting, an important factor in the effectiveness of the law, has been improved, both chambers demonstrating the strength of open work and its potential for our country. Finally, this bill is balanced. I will not hide that we have had differences with the Senate, but I believe that we have worked in the public interest to listen to our respective convictions without opposing them. The High Assembly wanted this bill to show a commitment to professional integration. We did not want a text that changes into an unrealistic and reducing adequacyism: unrealistic because it would prevent initial training from playing a role in the preparation of the professions of the future, reducing because the university is and must remain a place of creation and dissemination of knowledge, a place of knowledge and emancipation. The final text is balanced: occupational integration has a place, the one that the two assemblies wanted to give it, its rightful place, without excess. We support this text all the more as it demonstrates what Parliament is capable of when mutual respect and the general interest prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u207	I will not go back to everything that it brings – I do not have the time – but I would like to stress four important points: progress, emancipation, justice and innovation. The living conditions of students will improve. It is a necessity in itself, we know, but it is also one of the levers that will enable everyone to succeed. Improving the living conditions of our students is a major step forward in the bill. The orientation is the basis of this text as well as of the student plan. The draft law gives the lines of a real orientation: concrete and complete information, reinforced support, choice of free and enlightened bachelors. It brings the tools of emancipation. Parcoursup removes the draw by lot. It was urgent to put an end to this injustice. The human is reintroduced into the process – in this regard, the strengthening of the ethics committee must be emphasized. Finally, the personal support in the first year has been rather little debated, and I regret it. However, this is a major dimension of reform. Give more to those who need it most, that's what we do with the PCs split in REP+, and that's what we will do with the personalized accompaniments. They will help students who need it to put every chance on their side to succeed in their first year. Each university or higher education institution is currently working on these innovative schemes that will be deployed from next year, to end the major failure that characterizes – alas – our bachelor's degree. Progress, emancipation, justice and innovation. We, the deputies of the Republic on the move, will remain mobilized for this law. Pedagogy and follow-up will be required in order to implement it in our territories among high school students and universities. We will also follow his assessment, as we know that his devices will be gradually deployed. We rely on monitoring and evaluation to make them evolve to better meet the needs of our young people and increase the success of our students. This text is not an end, it is a beginning. I welcome the work we are doing as a team and thank our rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for this text which combines pragmatism and conviction. It is a text of progress, of confidence in our higher education – which is moving towards real democratization – and above all of confidence in our youth, who will seize the new things that it brings to build its future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u209	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u210	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Joint Committee, whose conclusions meet with us, was held, according to a very limited timetable, on 13 February, i.e. – is it by chance? – the day before the government presented the reform of the baccalaureate. This telescopage reminds us, as a wink, that the reform we are debating, a bit hasty, has not been part of a process of consultation, consultation, thorough and comprehensive reflection – from the Republican point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u211	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u212	Despite your denials, it is a refistolage operated in the urgency of the highly criticized PDB system and no less disputed drawing by lot, after the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – the CNIL – issued its opinion on PDB. As often, the current "at the same time" has become a "quite" frustrating. We were told a great law. The bill does not say a word about university autonomy. It does not really transform the system of access to higher education. Throughout the debates, the selection remained a taboo word for the Government, while it is already the rule: 56 per cent of bachelors registered in a selective sector during 2016-2017. The selection is already in place and, as our compatriots know, it rhymes more and more with quality. However, for the current majority, it was a taboo word, which should not be said. The text, as we said at first reading, is a missed opportunity. He proposes only a timid reform of access to university, before the reform of the baccalaureate. By seeking to close parliamentary debates, to reduce them to a binary choice for or against the PDB algorithm, for or against the drawing of lots, the Government has been discouraging a genuine and necessary debate on the substantive issues facing our country in this twenty-first century, which is so competitive, and particularly its higher education system. Under the name of Parcoupsup, a rather complex pipework is hidden, not always operational. The Council of State itself recalled the extremely constrained timetable for the implementation of a reform which, as soon as the next academic year, will concern more than 600,000 new arrivals. The delays and interrogations of many universities attest to the perplexity of Parcoursup. You have not given us any concrete answers as to the feasibility of the reform: neither on the "yes, in spite of everything" that universities will have to practice, nor on the precise, concrete modalities, financed budgetly – so clearly indicated to the national representation – of the integration of students into the general health insurance scheme. On other issues, the Government has moved forward, not without haste, by issuing a series of extensive decrees. On the basis of a favourable legislative outcome of our debates, it gives the mechanism a legal basis even before the parliamentary process is finalised. In reality, little is changing. You do not operate any real transformation of our system. I really hoped – we hoped – that the debates, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, would allow us to turn the "can do better" I had expressed on behalf of the Republican Group into a "yes, yes." It must be noted that, while the Senate majority has done a good job – changing the reception capacity in undergraduate courses according to the success rates in voltage courses, the possibility to carry out differentiated courses, the publication of the student's occupational integration rates – the CMP, and we regret it, has given priority to the technical urgency of the timetable over the substantive issues. I would remind you that the high school students will have to have seized their wishes on 13 March and that, with their dossier finalized, the confirmation of the wishes will take place on 31 March. We sincerely regret that the important and precise contributions of the Senate majority have not been retained during the laborious discussions of the Joint Committee and that a spirit of constructive and balanced compromise has not prevailed. However, we understand that, in the face of the technical urgency of the calendar, the spirit of responsibility prevailed and that senators, in their great wisdom, did not want to leave future students in the dark any longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u213	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Again, this text is inabouti. Perhaps you have come a short way in the right direction, but the Republicans remain dissatisfied with the final result. That is why they will not vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u216	What a lack of courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u217	On the bill as a whole, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u218	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Joint Joint Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement of the National Assembly welcomes the outcome of the Joint Joint Committee which took place the day before yesterday in the Senate. The close collaboration between the Government and parliamentarians will have led to a balanced text that responds to an emergency situation, while maintaining a great ambition for our university system, and therefore for the future of our students. Indeed, through this text, we find what we see as the essential object of a good reform of access to higher education, built solely for the benefit of a single target: the student. This essential, what is it? Simplified access to the offer of available trainings now realized by the Parcoursup platform, which has already hosted hundreds of thousands of registrations; a better positioning of the student, based on his abilities, his results, all mirrored with the expectations of the targeted field(s); Finally, an in-depth knowledge of the success rates for each sector. The central objective is therefore: to put the student at the heart of the device, to make him an actor in his studies by allowing him to better objectiveize his choices, simply by empowering him. It is on these conditions, which are met by the text, that we will finally tackle what makes the sad originality of the French university system: the cursed selection by failure. The student will no longer be alone in the face of the choices that engage his or her future. He will be accompanied, guided, informed from high school and during his career in higher education. Until now, none of the successive majorities had been able to live up to the struggle against this fundamental inequality: the students of a privileged sociocultural milieu knew, when others were condemned to advance blindly. The student will no longer be alone, either, in the face of difficulties. Pedagogical aids and personalized training courses will meet the needs of those who can no longer be left on the side of the road. Success for all is undoubtedly a marker of this piece of legislation, an inclusive and fair bill. The aim now is to take into account the student's abilities and wishes, knowledge and skills, but also to improve the student's living conditions. Access to student care will now be facilitated, which was also a necessity and a real urgency. We therefore welcome the fact that the student social security system is based on the general scheme established by this Act, while maintaining the educational and preventive measures that meet the specific needs of the student population. This change, with the disappearance of their contribution, will clarify the situation and make student contributions more equitable. At the end of many hours of debate, ladies and gentlemen, during the hearings in committee, in the Chamber, in the Joint Committee, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the final text and welcomes the investment of our Minister. Our group is also particularly keen to point out the quality of the debate held, this time in the two assemblies, which have been able to overcome any cleavage in order to arrive at the consensus text that we are being asked to adopt today. [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group and on a few benches in the REM group]] It is therefore the priority given to the construction of the future of our students that must only take precedence here, and this is of course the only thing that matters to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u219	Mrs Beatrice Descamps, the last speaker on the list, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u220	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Joint Joint Committee, Mr rapporteur, we are today considering, at the end of the legislative process, the draft law on the guidance and success of students, as drawn from the work of the Joint Joint Committee which met on Tuesday. The exchanges between Members of Parliament and Senators have resulted in a balanced outcome, although we do not share all the conclusions. However, we had already made this clear at first reading: we are in agreement with the main guidelines of a text which aims to respond – it was a real necessity – to the major dysfunctions which have emolucidated the last academic years and which, due to the lack of space in certain establishments in tension, has had to be solved by the use of the drawing of lots, an unfair, unfair and deeply demotivating procedure. It also intends to provide a pragmatic and realistic response to a fact that we can no longer escape: our university system selects massively by failure and leaves many students on the side of the road. It is imperative that we break out of this negative spiral, which requires a better orientation of the candidates. In this regard, we welcome the setting up of the orientation weeks in autumn and spring as well as the general effort on the orientation in high school with a second main teacher entirely dedicated to the orientation of high school students. The increased personalisation of the courses, with the introduction of the expected sector by sector on the new platform Parcoursup, will make the students more responsible and make them actors of their success, which we welcome. We were more reserved as to how to apply a new provision introduced by the Senate to define the capacity to receive licences and the possibility of creating additional places within institutions based on the success rate and occupational integration. We agree on the principle, the aim being to promote the fields in which there are the most numerous job opportunities so as not to direct our students towards clearly blocked courses, but how can we define what is occupational integration and effectively quantify the rates of success and occupational integration? On the other hand, I am personally opposed to the introduction of a general selection at the end of the high school. As far as this measure is concerned, the compromise reached by the CMP seems to us to be appropriate: the determination of the capacity of universities to receive them will take into account the vocational integration rate, the project of the institutions but also the wishes of the students. Moreover, we are convinced that the vocation of higher education is not only – although this dimension is obviously central – to prepare for the professional integration of our young people. The latter must also promote emancipation and training in intellectual autonomy – it would be regrettable to neglect this fundamental dimension. Furthermore, it seems clear to us that the relevance and effectiveness of your reform, Madam Minister, can only be understood within a broader framework and in accordance with all the guidelines that you are defending with the Minister of National Education. Finally, we asked you at first reading about the particularities of the ultramarine territories and we thank you, Madam Minister, for your attentive attention to this subject, particularly with regard to Polynesia – it would be important for the specificities of all these territories to be taken into account. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group, on several benches of the REM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] As you understand, the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote in favour of this bill, which goes in the right direction and contributes to putting the excellence and success of all our students at the heart of higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u221	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u222	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-15-O1142.u223	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Final reading of the draft law ratifying Ordinance No. 2017-48 of 19 January 2017 on the profession of medical physicist and Ordinance No. 2017-50 of 19 January 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union law in the field of security; Discussion, at second reading, of the proposal for a law allowing for the proper application of the European asylum system; Discussion, at second reading, of the bill ratifying Order No. 2016-131 of 10 February 2016 reforming contract law, the general regime and proof of obligations. The meeting is adjourned.
