ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on enterprise growth and transformation (No. 1088, 1237). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the forty-hour groups. Each group has the following speaking times: for the La République group on the move, ten hours and ten minutes; for the Republican Group, nine hours and fifty minutes; for the Democratic and Related Movement Group, three hours and fifteen minutes; for the IDU group, Act and Independent, four hours and forty-five minutes; for the Socialist and Related Group, four hours and forty minutes; for the group La France insoumis, three hours and forty-five minutes; for the Democratic and Republican Left Group, three hours and forty minutes. Non-attached Members have a time of one hour and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u3	Mr President of the National Assembly, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, thematic rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, there is something blocked in the French economy...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u4	Your policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u5	... and the French have been paying for years: mass unemployment, loss of competitiveness of our companies, external trade deficit. However, France is not intended to be the European red lantern in terms of external deficit, debt or unemployment. France and our children are not condemned to mass unemployment. The blockages of the French economy must be lifted without delay. These blockages are of all kinds. First of all, there are administrative and technical blockages: double reporting obligations for those who set up their businesses, internship obligations for the artisans who set up their businesses, the obligation to keep accounts higher than that of all our European partners, and the complexity of the 199 obligations linked to social and tax thresholds. These administrative and technical blockages are unbearable to our entrepreneurs and to our citizens. There are also financial blockages: French companies finance themselves too much in debt and not enough in equity because they do not have the means to do otherwise. And there are even deeper blockages: cultural blockages. In France, we do not accept failure; In France, we do not allow the rebound of those who have tried and failed while in order to succeed, we must have tried and sometimes failed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u6	As in politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u7	In addition, we lack solidarity between French SMEs and large companies, while our German neighbours know how to build this solidarity. Finally, we have not been able to determine the division of roles between government and business, and such confusion of roles weakens our economy on a daily basis. Behind all these blockages, there is a fundamental question: can France succeed in globalisation and affirm in it an economic model of its own, or is it condemned, as some propose, to retreat to itself and to fight in vain against globalization? My answer is clear, it is the answer of our majority: yes, France can and will succeed in globalisation; France can and will build a new French prosperity. This new French prosperity must benefit all French people, regardless of their origin, diploma or qualifications. This new French prosperity must benefit all the territories because we do not believe in a model of economic development where wealth, knowledge, laboratories and businesses would be concentrated on only a few metropolises to the detriment of remote territories, particularly rural ones. This new French prosperity must make the bet on intelligence, creativity, new technologies and innovation. This new French prosperity must promote sustainable growth because I see no opposition between economic competitiveness and respect for the environment. I even believe that there is a close complementarity between the two because our companies will be all the more competitive as they will be wagering respect for the environment and innovation. This new French prosperity is based on clear fiscal and fiscal choices, which Gérald Darmanin and I recalled yesterday: the valorisation of labour, the reduction of capital taxes, support for innovation and the reduction of compulsory levies on households and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u8	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u9	The bill that I have the honour to introduce to you today is another cornerstone of this new French prosperity. It is a major step in the economic transformation of our country that will allow us to remove the French, technical or cultural blockages, and allow our SMEs to grow, gain export market share, be more profitable and create jobs in our territories. What is this bill? It is first and foremost a text of dialogue, the result of twelve months of consultation, discussions and exchanges with entrepreneurs and employees. And I believe that this dialogue was essential in order to achieve an ambitious and balanced text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to welcome the high quality of the debates we have had in the special committee for more than fifty hours of work. They have moved the Government on a number of issues, such as participation, and transparency on wage differentials. I would also like to commend the work of all Members, in particular the chairman of the special committee, Olivia Grégoire, and the rapporteur-general, Roland Lescure. I would also like to welcome the proposals made by all the members of the majority, as well as those made by members of the opposition, as well as the initiatives taken by other groups, such as the Republicans who issued this morning a forum to support the bill that I am defending before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u10	That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u11	Finally, I say to all the oppositions that we do not necessarily defend the same economic model, but that we find ourselves on a fundamental point: the need to present to the French, in our debates, clear and new options for the future of the French economy. I am sure that during the discussion that begins, we will be able to find points of agreement between all the groups, in a spirit of general interest, at the service of all the French. For the economy is not limited to technology, economic choices engage a world view, a vision of society, a conception of the nation and even a certain idea of human relations; economic choices are also cultural choices. With this bill, we make the choice of economic recovery. With a goal: to grow our SMEs, allow them to innovate to export and gain market share internationally. The first step in this recovery is to simplify the registers, the administrative declarations, the creation of enterprises, the rebound and their transmission so that, after a working life, everyone can guarantee the sustainability of what he or she has achieved. In this simplification, there is one emblematic measure: the simplification of social thresholds, their reduction and the five years given to SMEs to fulfil their new obligations in the event of a change of threshold. In which other countries are there 199 obligations related to these thresholds? In which other country are there so many rules which, each taken separately, may have meaning, but which, when taken together, become absolutely Kafkaian for entrepreneurs? This winback also involves better financing of our companies: it must be based on equity. The measures we are taking on the PEA-SME – the equity savings plan for SMEs and mid-cap companies – and on the Eurogrowth for life insurance are in this direction, as are the provisions on the ICO – Initial Coins Offers, i.e. the cryptocurrency bottom-up, which will allow us to be a leading nation in blockchain. This winback, finally, goes through innovation by bringing researchers and the company closer together because they will be able to spend not only 20% but 50% of their time there, by modifying the patent regime, by creating a fund for breaking innovation and by protecting our most sensitive technologies thanks to the strengthening of the decree on foreign investment in France. We will thus begin the technological recovery of our country. Let me stress the challenge of innovation because, whether it is for space, the storage of renewable energy, data, artificial intelligence or nanotechnology, the subject and the stakes are not only economic: it is a question of whether or not our country wants to remain sovereign. Do we want to be a sovereign nation in a sovereign European continent or do we want to be the vassals of the United States or China? Do we want to have tomorrow in our cars and in the rail transport of Chinese or American technologies, and for the storage of renewable energies, technologies in any foreign way, or to give us the means to have our own technologies and our own sovereignty? We, France, are not intended to be the dealers of foreign technologies: we are destined to build our technological sovereignty because our political sovereignty depends on it. The choice of the President of the Republic is clear in this respect: a sovereign nation in a sovereign Europe, with the development of our own technologies because we want a powerful European continent whose innovations can compete with those of China or the United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u12	It doesn't eat bread to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u13	The bill that I am introducing today is, thirdly, a piece of justice. The abolition of the social package on self-interest and participation in enterprises with less than 250 employees must in fact enable all employees to be better associated with the results of their enterprise. When a company succeeds, it owes it first to its employees. It is only fair for them to benefit first of all from its successes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u15	On this subject, I am open to the proposals made by the majority on lowering the reference wage ceiling used for the distribution of participation, now set at four times the annual social security ceiling, i.e. four PASS. We have had lengthy discussions and I will listen in a spirit of openness to the proposals of the majority. It is also a legal text through the reform of retirement savings. The current arrangements are too complex, too heavy: an employee cannot keep the same arrangement when he or she changes business, nor in most cases release the money saved when he or she wants to buy a principal residence, and does not even have the choice to retire as an annuity or capital when he or she retires, the option having been imposed on him or her from the outset. Our majority believes in freedom and responsibility: that is why it will transform retirement savings products from bottom to bottom so that they are portable from one company to another, that everyone can free up the sums necessary to buy his or her principal residence and that, finally, each employee chooses freely, at the time of retirement, if he or she wants to go out into an annuity or capital. It is a text of justice, finally, with the transparency of the levels of remuneration. I believe in transparency and I reject the excesses that we can see in other countries with regard to the pay gap. I am therefore in favour of making this transparency, not only on the basis of the average wage, as we adopted in the special committee, but also on the basis of the median, which will make it possible to better observe the distribution of wages within the same company and the wage differentials between the employees and their managers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u16	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u17	But the PACTE bill goes even further, because the issue of the text is also to clarify the respective roles of the state and businesses in the French economy. It is in my opinion time to start this work of clarification, and I am sure that we will have lengthy and in-depth discussions between ourselves on how everyone sees the place of the State and that of companies in our society. For decades, indeed, we have not known who is doing what and who is responsible for what: it keeps our economy both confused and inefficient. If businesses have to make profit, they can't just make profit. They have a role to play in society and must therefore make profit in the name of something, that is, on behalf of a project that exceeds them. That is why we will amend the civil code, so that companies can take full account of the social and environmental issues associated with their activities. It is the recognition that the changes in our societies are also the result of companies and their employees, entrepreneurs and private actors. A society is not only transformed by political will: it is also transformed by the daily work of private actors, entrepreneurs and employees. Recognizing the social and environmental dimension of enterprises is therefore also in the interest of entrepreneurs. For its part, the State must protect and invest. I would like to repeat this to the National Assembly: public services will remain at the heart of the State's missions. The transformation that we carry from the Post Office, with the reconciliation of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, will allow us, for example, to form, with more than 1000 billion euros of consolidated balance sheet, the first public financial hub in the world. This new public service, set up around the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, must call for a renewed governance, with a strengthened supervisory committee, in which Parliament – I want to reassure all parliamentarians about this – will find its full place. I am therefore pleased that we have reached agreement with the Members directly concerned on this committee. Beyond public services, the State must also guarantee the defence of economic public order and the protection of the weakest. It must assume this role when company restructuring takes place and there are concerns about employment expressed in employees, in workers. We are doing this at Ascoval: this morning, in the presence of the local parliamentarians, I received the employees of the Ascoval factory, in order to find a solution, that is to say to work together on a recovery. There, the State is useful for building a collective project. We also do this at the Ford plant in Blanquefort. I also went to Bordeaux to meet, with President Alain Rousset and the mayor of the city, Alain Juppé, the employees concerned, in order to try to build together, around the project to take over the entrepreneur Punch, a project to take over this factory and this high-quality industrial complex that is Blanquefort. We are doing so, in a more general way, to support sectors in transition, such as the diesel industry. On all these issues, the State has a role to play: to protect those most at risk, to chart prospects and to support restructuring in the service of economic development. The State must also assume its role in relation to the most difficult territories: it is for this reason that, in the transformation of the model of chambers of commerce and industry that we have undertaken, we will give a special place to the chambers of commerce in rural areas. Finally, the State must invest, because investment is very often the forgotten part of the role of the State. This is my vision of the shareholder state, which I defend in the framework of the fund for breaking innovation, the creation of which was desired by the President of the Republic. It involves divestitures of assets, to finance the innovations that will make the growth of tomorrow. I also want to say this before national representation: the State has a much more important role to play as an investor than as a dividend holder. His money is in my opinion better placed when he is not blocked to manage either hotels or luxury boutiques at Paris Airport, that is, when he is invested in the future of our children and he finances new technologies as well as innovations that other states – the United States and China in the lead – do not hesitate to finance massively with public support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u18	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u19	The State's priority is not to receive dividends but to invest in the future. This is all the more true since, in the sectors in the sectors concerned – I am thinking for example of Aéroports de Paris or La Française des jeux – the State has other ways to intervene, notably through regulation. It is in my opinion preferable to use these tools rather than squandering the money of the French and depriving themselves of the means necessary to invest in innovation. As part of the divestiture of the Aéroports de Paris group, we will take all the necessary steps, not only to guarantee, but to strengthen the regulation of Paris airports. The proposed specifications are strict and will complement the personal security and border control missions which will, of course, remain the sole responsibility of the State. With regard to French gaming, the divestiture of assets does not in any way call into question the state monopoly on games. On the contrary, it will be accompanied by the establishment of a regulatory authority to combat gambling addiction, particularly among the youngest. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fundamental issue of the PACTE bill: reinvigorating growth in France, helping our small and medium-sized enterprises to grow, grow, innovate and export, involving employees in their results and, ultimately – at the end of the debates we will have in this National Assembly – finally achieving a redefinition of the respective roles of the state and companies in our economy. This issue is the consistency of the bill before you today: consistency with our goal of expanding businesses and involving employees in the nation's economic success; coherence with all the tax decisions we have taken to reduce capital taxes to enable our companies to invest, digitise and innovate, and also to be consistent with our European commitments. Indeed, what we are defending in terms of innovation and breaking technologies, we are also putting forward, together with the President of the Republic, at European level, in order to create a European fund for breaking innovation. Such an approach will allow us to work with our German partners on artificial intelligence projects. Coherent, the PACTE bill is also in relation to the protection of foreign investment in Europe, which is now under the supervision of the European Commission. This project is also consistent with the changes we are carrying out in the euro area. The euro must be, like the dollar, a reference currency and the euro area a power equivalent tomorrow to that of the United States or China. Finally, it is consistent with the vision of globalisation that we have been defending with this whole majority for several months now; a globalization, in which France will succeed. Globalization is not war, it is rules, especially in trade. Globalization is a spirit of cooperation among nations. Globalization is a goal of sustainable growth. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups – Ms Véronique Louwagie applauds]] It is this vision of the economy that we defend; it is this renewed vision of the relationship between the State and enterprises; It is this idea of globalization that we, with the whole majority, want to bring with it the PACTE bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u20	Mr Roland Lescure, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u21	Mr President, the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, while the average duration of detention of an action was eight years in 1960, it was three years in 1980, one year in 2005, and only seven months in 2017. On the New York Stock Exchange, it is now possible to buy and then sell the same stock in less than a nanosecond. The financial markets have imposed this unbridled pace on companies that are required to publish their results every semester or every quarter, or even to comment continuously, we have seen in recent days, all the rumours and all the noises that agitate them. The Internet and social networks multiply information at the speed of lightning and allow – without any discernment – a rumor, a revolt or a revolution to spread within a few hours. Outside the Atlantic, a president lies and denies his own administration in a tweet. While the temptation of urgency sometimes pushes us to govern or legislate in haste, I would like to thank and congratulate you, Minister, the Secretary of State, for the manner in which you have constructed this bill, in an unprecedented process of consultation and reflection with parliamentarians, entrepreneurs and citizens that preceded its presentation in Council of Ministers by several months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the Socialist and related groups]] This long-term work continued in a special commission, under the benevolent, rigorous and sometimes somewhat disciplined auspices of its president. On behalf of all the Commissioners, I would like to thank you, Madam President. I have no doubt that this long-term, rigorous, disciplined and caring work will continue in the House. Minister, time control is at the heart of your method. In fact, the form of this bill is very much in substance, because the thrust of this bill is simply, in order to align its interests, to extend the time horizons of all the players in the company. Since we're talking about time, let's go back for a few thirty years. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war it symbolized, triumphant capitalism has brought a billion people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u22	And how many people have dived in there?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u23	This has been accompanied by historic and unprecedented growth in income inequality and unsustainable pressure on natural resources. Indeed, we are all facing a threefold challenge: economic development, resorption of inequalities and ecological transition. If, with its 146 clauses, the PACTE bill does not, of course, alone intend to take up this triple challenge, it goes in the right direction because it will allow the French economy to prosper better, to share the fruits of this prosperity better and, also, to better empower its actors, particularly in the face of the environmental emergency. As I said, this bill extends the time horizons of all the players in the company, and first of all those in the company itself. It will indeed, as you said, Minister, have five years to adapt the thresholds – to which it must, even if simplified, comply – to its life cycles. Companies will thus have more facilities to be born, to grow, and – because this happens – to die, as well as to bounce back. Of course, their costs will be reduced, thanks to the abolition of compulsory internships and the costs associated with their creation and growth. Employees will also see a longer time horizon: they will be better associated with the company's strategy and the fruits of its work. Due to all the measures planned to encourage interest and participation, several tens of billion euros will be available so that they too can invest in French companies in the long term. Shareholders and savers will also see their time horizon extended. I spent eight years in a country where the choice of pension funds made it possible to benefit from long-term capital, which makes it possible to finance local businesses. Other countries have made different choices: Germany's choice of family capitalism, and Norway's choice of sovereign funds. Still others have reserve funds. In France, however, this long-term capital is sorely lacking. Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I am convinced that with what you propose to us in terms of retirement savings and interest, but also participation, we will be able to extend also in France – provided, of course, that capital goes where we need it, that is, in the SMEs that will make the future of French companies. You mentioned it, minister: the state must also change its brace, or its software, and push back its horizon. The role of a State is not to receive annual dividends from companies of which it is a shareholder and which operate in sectors that have only a strategic interest in managing shopping malls.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u24	What about public health?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u25	In 1960, the great inventions were made in an office at the Elysée, with three engineers; This was the case for the nose of the Concord or the nuclear power plants. The cold war has also brought about innovations, which we still benefit from every day – the Internet is a baby of the cold war. Today, innovations are no longer in Elysée or in the context of the cold war, but in garages, rooms, companies and laboratories. Everything you propose to us, Minister, to bring about breaking innovation – the Innovation Fund, the status of researcher-entrepreneur – goes in the same direction, that of defining the role of the state in the 21st century: a strategist state, an innovative state, but also a state that protects. Two actors are not named in the text, although they are present. The first is the consumer – or rather the "consumer". We are all consumers, in these spans, whether we are entrepreneurs or employees, and we all face, when we have some time, on the weekend, our duty of responsibility in our way of consuming. This is true every day. Some companies are ripolining; They advertise big societal and environmental goals in their advertisements, but their practices run counter to them. I will not mention names, but this has been illustrated recently by some coffee chains or transport companies. Besides, there are companies that are ready to put at the heart of their mission goals that go beyond the quest for profit. I met a few days ago, during the hearings, representatives of the Biocoop company, which you all know. Well, this one is really ready to change consumption habits in France, via the distribution of quality organic products by short circuits. By specifying the three stages of the rocket – the social object, the "raison d'être" and the companies on mission – we are redefining what a company is in France in the 21st century and we are giving these companies the opportunity to become social actors in their own right. The second actor, who is absent from the text by name but who is very present, is the territories. If we want to bridge the territorial divide, businesses must be able to be born, grow and export from all territories. The reform of the large French public financial companies, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, CNP Assurances and La Poste, which you are proposing, Minister, is in this direction. Before concluding, I want to say two words about my role as rapporteur-general. This role will, as I hope I have shown in committee, be to listen to suggestions from every bench, but also to support the thematic rapporteurs in their work and to be a kind of guardian of the temple, so that we maintain the balance of this text, which must free, but also protect, which must allow us to prosper, but also to empower. I will introduce two amendments on my behalf. The first is to create an economic sustainability fund – I will come back to that in a later session. As for the second, I would like to say two words immediately, because it will only be presented at the end of the examination of the text, and I think it is important for everyone. I would like the House to take up the evaluation of the law through an ad hoc mechanism, which will allow us all to follow up on the major issues in the text together. This amendment, which will be presented to you in a few days' time, I am prepared to amend it in the light of the suggestions from the various benches, so that we can follow you closely, Minister, the Secretary of State, in the enforcement, enforcement and evaluation of the law. In 1936 Charlie Chaplin caricatured in Modern Times the excesses of productivism, automatism and the acceleration of time, which would literally cause "a bolt to break" to the workers, whose living conditions were ravaged by industrialization and by a society that dissipated individuals by alienating them. Far from Charlie Chaplin's image, the "CAPTE" bill redefines the 21st century business from the challenges of our time: to liberate, prosper, to empower and to protect...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u26	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...conditions which are indispensable and inextricably linked to a sustainable economy and which benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u28	I call Mr Denis Sommer, the thematic rapporteur of the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u29	Through this bill, we will discuss the place of the company in our society, the place of entrepreneurs and the place of employees; the simplification needed for growth; the place of employees in the development of corporate strategies and the essential sharing of the wealth produced. To deal with administrative complexities, we create a one-stop shop: one agency for more simplicity and time saved. However, in order to better support business leaders, we maintain the opportunity to meet the actors physically. So that, tomorrow, a company develops at a lower cost in France, we reduce the obligation for micro-enterprises to have a professional bank account; we limit the obligation of recourse to auditors; we invite the consular chambers to change their model to look to the accompaniment of the creators. We are lifting the barriers to business growth. We have done this by paying particular attention to the rights of employees. Here I would like to thank my colleagues and the Government for their confidence and their decision to maintain the obligation to provide a trade union space in companies with more than 200 employees. As you know, I am a former worker and trade union leader in a large company; I know the importance of respect, mutual listening and social dialogue. Finally, we are facilitating the rebound of entrepreneurs and businesses – my colleague Olivia Grégoire will explain this. To this end, we will propose to you to extend a preventive device that has proved its worth in Burgundy-Franche-Comté and of which I had been at the initiative; It is a mechanism for analysing the warning signals of firms in difficulty, in order to better accompany them, to enable them to bounce back and thus save employment. Beyond what will be a debate between us, we have a collective responsibility to create an environment that will generate confidence. Such a debate will be necessary, but it will also have to be part of a recent history, marked by public debt, a debt that is too heavy, forcing often difficult choices. This debt increased sharply during the 2008-2010 crisis. The choice was made to let the deficit go – because it was a choice. It probably did not allow us to live through an austerity cure that would have been devastating in social terms. However, the debt is there, and we must collectively take full action and act with ambition and reason. In order to recover, France had to take measures to restore the margins of companies and to enable investment and employment to be revived. Decisions have been taken, such as the creation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the CICE. Despite complex implementation, it was a courageous decision; It was certainly unpopular, giving the feeling of giving to the richest – but it was the companies that created the job, and accompanying them was indispensable. Our history is also marked by repeated positions for the defence of our industry, when others thought that, as a result of an aging industry, our future was limited to the development of services. I have taken note of a number of amendments stressing the need to build more balanced and mutually supportive relationships between contractors and subcontractors. Progress has been made in several areas, but much remains to be done. As the minister has just explained, we are going to find ways for a major industrial policy, geared towards innovation and the major challenges of the 21st century – we will have the opportunity to talk about it again. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and on a few benches of the group IUD-Agir]] Colleagues, with the PACTE bill, we are refusing immobilism. We have the ambition to undertake reforms that affect all stages of an enterprise's life. We are going to make structural choices for our country's economy. Each one will be able to bring his stone. We will discuss what is useful and what is less useful. We will take steps, as far as we can. It's a great challenge, it's up to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u30	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, thematic rapporteur of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u31	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] The starting point of this bill has been a widely shared diagnosis for a long time: our businesses cannot grow. On the other hand, its point of arrival is absolutely innovative: rather than treating the symptom, the text addresses the causes. Rather than overprotecting small businesses to disgust them from growing up, rather than assigning them, like Peter Pan, to an eternal childhood, this bill invites them to take risks, to grow up, to take off, to bounce back. The first section of Chapter II, of which I have the privilege and the pleasure of being the rapporteur, is the lever of financing, with three major reforms: savings products, finance markets and the future major public financial centre, the Caisse des dépôts. These three reforms have been greatly enriched by the amendments adopted by our special committee, of which you have so perfectly moderated the debates, Madam President. To allow the French to save in the long run, article 20 introduces a simple retirement savings plan, adapted to changes in working life, with more freedom and more competition between the actors. The special commission has expanded the scope of the reform to include point-based schemes, shifted this savings to solidarity companies and increased the portability of the plan, which will make it even more attractive. Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this new pension savings plan will spread widely and that every Frenchman and every Frenchman will be able to hold his own in a few years' time. This long-term savings will indeed support the development of enterprises and SMEs. It is EUR 17 billion that will be mechanically re-directed towards the own funds of companies, of which EUR 2 billion will be for SMEs. It is also the objective pursued by Article 21, which strengthens life insurance, the preferred placement of the French – life insurance that we have made more solidarity and greener, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic and yours, Minister, who announced that "finance will be green or not". Article 27 concerns the financing of enterprises by the French through the SME share savings plan – the PEA-SME – by making participatory financing securities eligible for such a plan. The special committee took this opportunity to transform this scheme in depth by introducing a fungibility of its envelope with the savings plan into shares, greater flexibility with regard to withdrawals and a cap on costs – which I welcome. Second major reform, that of the financial markets. The bill simplifies the introductions on the stock exchange and reduces the cost. It facilitates exit from the market, clarifies the law of listed companies and modernises market infrastructures, while maintaining strong financial stability requirements. It creates a favourable regime for the "impatriates". Finally, it clarifies the system of preference actions, an instrument preferred by fast-growing companies. The bill also introduces a precursor institutional framework for crypto-actives. This framework will protect investors and will support the location in France of block chain activities, i.e. blockchains. The system of the Government has been enriched by a fee to the account for issuers; This was made possible by the substantive work carried out by our fellow authors of the report of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, the report of the joint fact-finding mission and the report of the Committee on Finance on block chains. Let them all be thanked for that. To be completely complete, there was a missing part of the text concerning the cash flow of small and medium-sized enterprises. Major advances have been made by our colleagues in the special commission, following a dialogue with the Government: facilitating advances in current account and inter-firm lending, securing reverse factoring and ending zero-euro service orders. Third major reform: the modernization of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, an institution placed in the most special way under the supervision and guarantee of Parliament since 1816. The bill, while part of this historical continuity, brings the Fund's governance and prudential supervision closer to that of a modern institution. In view of the role that it will have to take in the formation of a public financial centre, it was indispensable. Let us thank our three supervisory commissioners, Sophie Errante, Gilles Carrez and Jacques Savatier, who have worked hard to ensure that this reform is balanced. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to assess the effects of these reforms in due course. In this regard, let us applaud the initiative of our rapporteur-general, Roland Lescure, who will propose to you at the end of the debate to adopt an amendment to assess the whole of the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to congratulate our ministers for choosing to entrust parliamentarians and business leaders with the task of making proposals, which were then submitted to public consultation before being widely included in the bill. I also hope that the text, enriched by this House, will lay the foundation for the new French prosperity that you, Minister, have called for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u32	Mrs Marie Lebec, thematic rapporteur of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u33	First of all, let me express my great satisfaction at being able to start this new year with the PACTE bill, as it is fundamental to the lives of our businesses and expected by entrepreneurs. In the face of this summer's parliamentary deadlock and uncertain timetable, we reaffirm our determination to continue the country's economic transformation, to support our entrepreneurs, who are the first to create activity in our territory, to create value and to meet the needs of job seekers. Ladies and gentlemen, within the next few years, artificial intelligence alone could contribute to increasing global productivity by 40%, autonomous vehicles will circulate in connected cities and energy storage will help meet the challenges of the energy transition. France must not miss this industrial revolution, if it is not to be excluded from the world's first economies, but also to be no longer in control of its destiny. This is at stake in the second part of chapter II of the PACTE law: to give our companies a favourable framework to develop their innovations and to always be at the cutting edge of technology. With this text, we encourage companies to value their discoveries through intellectual property devices. While we have simplified the patenting procedure, particularly for SMEs, we have mainly chosen to be ambitious by adopting a priori patent control in committee. The securities, thus assessed according to inventiveness criteria, will guarantee SMEs real protection against the risks of counterfeiting or litigation. We also plan to relax the researcher-entrepreneur regime to encourage exchanges between the public and private sectors. Currently, only one researcher in a thousand requests each year to participate in the creation of a business, and one researcher in four thousand requests to be a director or associate. All innovative ecosystems in the world have a much better fluidity of talent between public and private, and we must encourage it. It is also a question of freeing up innovation experiments in the territory, so that France remains at the forefront in areas where it excels but where competition is harsh and rapid developments. In committee, we enriched the text by adding several new areas of experimentation, notably thanks to the call for projects launched by France experimentation. But in the face of ever more severe international competition, we must protect our essential innovations more effectively, without harming France's attractiveness to investors. We have chosen to strengthen the foreign investment control mechanism in Bercy, but also here in the National Assembly, by unanimously adopting the creation of a parliamentary delegation to economic security. This will also be complemented by the modernisation of the process of acquiring specific shares by the State in certain companies considered strategic. However, ladies and gentlemen, this new industrial policy cannot be effective without the support of a financing mechanism. This is the purpose of the fund for innovation and industry, which will be abounded with 10 billion euros thanks to the divestment of the state's stakes in the group Aéroports de Paris, la Française des jeux and Engie. This fund will release 250 million euros year after year. The stability and sustainability of these revenues will ensure the necessary predictability for innovative companies. Thus, we are making a strong paradigm shift, emerging from the logic of an annuitant state to act according to that of an investor state, without abandoning the strict control that we operate in the three sectors concerned. The work we have carried out in the hearings, and then in committee, has strengthened these requirements. For example, the terms of reference for ADP have been completed, and preventive measures for gambling have been added. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the draft law, all guarantees are taken to ensure that the sovereign functions of the State and all its interests, including financial interests, are protected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the concept of a merely shareholder and annuitant State, which is no longer adapted to the challenges of the 21st century and to an economy that has become competitive and international, the second part of Chapter II develops a renewed vision of the strategist State, i.e. a regulatory State, an investor in technology of the future and very responsive to hazards and threats.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u34	Mrs Coralie Dubost, thematic rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, Chapter III promotes more just businesses. It has the ambition to restore to companies their place in our society and to rethink the way it looks at them. As legislators, we can allow recognition and commitment to existing good practices, particularly in the areas of corporate social responsibility, transparency and philanthropy. The task of our legislator is also to promote innovative frameworks of responsible governance for all societies. In committee, we created the status of the companies on mission, that of the funds for economic sustainability and assumed the modification of the civil code to re-design the role of society. The integration of social and environmental issues within article 1833 of the Civil Code and the recognition of a raison d'être, inspired by the work of Nicole Notat and Jean-Dominique Senard, are thus strong markers of our ambition. All these advances are the result of decades of legal, economic and social reflection, which highlight the risks of legislation that, by promoting the partners' only common interest, masks the interests of society behind that of members. As early as 1951, the eminent lawyer Georges Ripert warned against the lack of recognition, by law, of the "common good of men who cooperate with the company", and pleaded for "the construction of a new judicial standard for the assessment of management decisions, the interest of the company, supposed to transcend the particular interests of its members". The PACTE bill thus responds – and finally – to this major concern by enshrining the notion of "social interest" in the civil code. All companies are thus enriched with new legal purposes, derived from good practices that French companies, pioneers in social and societal responsibility, can take pride in. A significant part of the preparatory work on this chapter has focused on this point. Numerous hearings have been held, bringing together recognized figures in the world of law – academics, magistrates and representatives of the Chancellery – or experts in corporate law and business law. Indeed, changing the civil code is never annoyance: more than ever, we must legislate with precision. It will be my job as rapporteur to take care of it. In committee, a meaningful punctuation amendment was adopted, replacing the conjunction "and" with a comma. The implications for company law are significant, since it must be made clear that the consideration of social and environmental issues is fully in line with the principle of the management of society, in its social interest and not outside it, in a disconnected manner. A single comma has so many consequences! Also, we push, or even dust, the law, but always with moderation and without haste. A reasonable balance has been found in committee on this point, as we preserve the essential performance of the company. The very definition of the social contract is not reached, and its economic destination remains a cardinal point, inserted in a global paradigm of performance that responds to the social and democratic stakes of our time. In his speech of 17 July 2018, the President of the Republic recalled the deleterious nature of the division between economic and social: yes, we intend to put an end to the erroneous division according to which "when we love employees, we must hate the company, when we love social, we should prevent economic success". Clause 61 of the bill evacuates this manicheism from another time. It is an expression of these converging purposes that bring together the interests of the various stakeholders. This need for a preserved but modernized legal status of society is reflected in new responsibilities. Our vision of the company is in fact fully part of a French tradition of responsible and controlled capitalism, where the risks and excesses of financialization have been compensated by a bold governance framework. France was thus one of the first countries to recognize corporate social responsibility in law; It has played a role in informing the principles of reporting, which have become the norm at European level. In committee, we went further than the original text. The training conditions for employee directors have been strengthened in order to promote more diversified corporate governance. We have also opened the bill to improve the representation of women in the executive functions of companies, and have adopted provisions to improve the transparency of pay gaps in large companies and to strengthen the dialogue between the board of directors and the social and economic committee. Tomorrow's society must also be a society of the commons. Chapter III of the text thus includes progress towards a better distribution of the value created by enterprises for the benefit of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u36	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u37	Interest and participation, which make it possible to involve employees more closely in the company's performance, are widely encouraged, particularly in small structures, thanks to the abolition of the social package, to the benefit of wage savings. In committee, we also relaxed the conditions of interest to encourage project interest and the generalisation of the business savings plan, and increased the incentive ceilings to which employees can claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u38	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u39	Yes, Mr. President, I'm finishing. If the debates lead us to this, then we will be able to complete the measures I have just mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] I will conclude by referring to employee share ownership, which has been endorsed by the actors we have met. Indeed, the investment of employees in the company's securities is generally considered virtuous for all parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u40	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u41	So I'm gonna stop there...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u42	Mrs Olivia Gregoire, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u43	It is of course with a mixture of emotion and real pride that I address to you today. I will not hide it from you, it is one day that many of us have waited. "We"? I am of course referring to our rapporteur-general Roland Lescure and to all the thematic rapporteurs: I am thinking of Roland, Marie, Coralie, Jean-Noël, Denis, Adrien, in other words to us Members, but also of the 626 economic actors and the 38 trade union and professional organisations which, for ten months, we have heard, listened to, and with which we have confronted our ideas and proposals. I am thinking of those who are waiting for this profound change, who are waiting to see the brakes and blockages lifted in order to develop better. I am thinking of those who told us, at our many meetings: "To create your box, frankly, it's a fighter's journey. Thresholds are really a hindrance to the growth of my business, and I stress the idea of exceeding them from an employee. The tools of interest are of course interesting, but how to put them in a small structure? I am also thinking of associations, whose words touched me; I think of Second Breath, of 60000 rebounds, of entrepreneurs who have experienced difficulties and who explained to me, on the ground: "You know, when you have difficulties, you are stigmatized, you "get" yourself, you don't know who to turn to, you're lost, you're a bit like a sub-citizen. » It is with these words that I am speaking to you today, to speak to a bill designed with and for those who have passed it, a bill that is truly co-built, and which is based on one observation: the fragility of our entrepreneurial fabric, despite its inherent strengths. This text is also based on a philosophy, pragmatism; on a method, dialogue; on an objective, the fundamental transformation of our economy. Finally, it is based on the profound coherence of government action, since it is a matter of complementing the 2018 Finance Act, which reduces capital taxation, the reform of the labour market by Mrs Pénicaud, and the draft law on trust and simplification of relations between administrations and businesses, dear to Gérald Darmanin. The text that we are about to study is attached to all stages of the company's life – yes, of its life, because a company, far from being static, is a living organism, as one of our compatriots, Frédéric Laloux, in Reinventing Organizations, beautifully recalls. Towards inspired working communities. A company is an organization that is always on the move; employees, business starters, bosses and also trade unions and partners interact, evolve within the same environment that affects them, and seek to give meaning and a raison d'être to their action. Let's start from the beginning. When a young dad or a young mom goes to the town hall to declare her child, there is only one register, which is free of charge. The entrepreneur has a choice between seven different registers! As a result, 800,000 companies are registered in at least two registers and are required to pay an average of 200 euros for the publication of legal notices. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Then the company, like us, grows. This is the period of initiation – our childhood: it must learn to stand, to walk. It was then a real race of obstacles that she had to engage in in order to meet the excessive obligations that Bruno Le Maire had very precisely recalled. For without questioning employee rights, companies must have the flexibility and agility to adapt to the economic cycle. All too often, however, their financing is part of the combatant's journey, whether with banks or savers. France suffers from capitalism without capital in which our SMEs simply do not have enough equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u44	That's when parents don't give enough money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u45	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on many benches of the MODEM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Let us not forget then, of course, this age sometimes ungrateful, sometimes difficult: adolescence – some of which here remind me that it is not finished for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u46	What you're saying is not nice to Mr. Darmanin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u47	Who, at this age, did not experience his procession of existential questioning? Who didn't feel the need to set goals, to find a reason for being? Like us, a company needs to grow to answer such questions, to meet the multidimensional, societal and environmental challenges of our century; It needs parity, transparency and sharing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u48	And profitability, too, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u49	But she doesn't need the PACTE law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u50	Let us stop opposing capital and labour, competitiveness and social responsibility. In committee, I quoted Henry Ford: "The two most important things don't appear on a company's record: its reputation and its people. With the PACTE law, we have the ambition to add its raison d'être to them. Last adolescence, the start-up carried out, the company has grown: here it is almost adult. It must now consolidate its development and, if not, ensure its own happiness, at least the quality of its development. He must be able to continue to grow, to finance himself...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u51	Marrying?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u52	[[Smile]] That's right! It must also innovate and access new markets, both domestic and international. Creating the conditions for a freer, more international and more innovative development: this is the whole issue of this bill. We all know failures. Let us remember Churchill's word: "If you go through hell, keep moving. Our TPEs and SMEs, too, sometimes know hell. Far from seeing this as a defect or a tare, we must be able to help them cope with it and bounce back. I sincerely thank the Ministers for the attention they have paid to this issue of the rebound, as evidenced by the removal of the Bank of France's indicator 050, which marked red iron for entrepreneurs who had experienced two bankruptcies in five years, or the harmonisation and reduction to two years of the duration of registration on the Kbis extract of the words "back-up/recovery". It is these brakes, in fact, that are blocking the recovery of our businesses today. We will defend, as Denis Sommer said, amendments to improve prevention by detecting weak signals of failure. Better to accompany the company in its first steps, living organism; show more indulgence and flexibility during the adolescent crisis that it can go through; contribute to the quest for meaning that it leads to employees as well as consumers – as the rapporteur-general said – once they reach adulthood: this is the meaning of the PACTE law, an ambitious, coherent, pragmatic law that, at every stage of the company's life, provides answers adapted to the real. This bill deserves all our time and attention. We have already debated it for more than fifty hours; I thank all of you for the quality of these debates. In committee, we have examined 2100 amendments. In open session, we will have the honour to consider 2646 amendments. These high figures are very clear evidence of the interest we all attach to improving the development of our TPEs and SMEs and the sharing of value. We adopted 383 amendments in committee, many of which came from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u53	Not even five amendments from the Republican Group! And again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u54	More than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u55	I welcome the work of both the opposition and the majority. This joint work has enriched the text. For example, the greater flexibility of the pension savings plan, which will allow investment in crowdfunding, thanks to the work of the Socialist and related groups; strengthening, through the UDI-Agir Group, the legal framework for inactive accounts; the extension of crowdfunding and reverse factoring proposed by the MODEM Group; the better dissemination of information from the Supervisory Committee of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, introduced by the GDR Group; the announcement of the opinion of the ad hoc committee on the compensation to be paid by Aéroports de Paris for the transfer of ownership of its property, defended by the LR Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u56	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u57	You see...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u58	One amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u59	You know that as I do, ladies and gentlemen: with this text, our responsibility is great. Just as in committee, let us live up to the challenges and, above all, to the debate that the French want and that entrepreneurs as employees deserve, whether it be our TPEs and SMEs, the removal of the technical and psychological obstacles that hinder them or, more broadly, our economic model, the respective place of entrepreneurs and employees, the raison d'être of a company in the 21st century. I cannot conclude without a few words of sincere thanks to Bruno Le Maire and Delphine Gény-Stephann for their trust and availability. I also, of course, thought about Benjamin Griveaux, who had worked on the text at his firstfruits. Finally, I am thinking of Richard Ferrand, now sitting above me and who, when he was a group leader, trusted me to chair the special committee. If we have been able to look at the text calmly, it is also thanks to the tireless work of the officials of the Assembly, the administrators, that I would like to thank very warmly for their unwavering help and their energy until late in the night, until the early morning. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] I will end by quoting René Char: "What comes into the world to trouble nothing deserves neither consideration nor patience. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u60	Poor René Char!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us follow René Char: let us be ambitious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u62	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u63	They don't like companies anymore? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u64	"No regard or patience"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u65	They're making a stand to say they're in favour, and they're laying a rejection motion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u66	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the thematic rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we have met to debate, without delay given the graceful deadlines, the so-called PACTE bill. Mr Minister, before the work of the special committee, when I read the details of the text, I would never have imagined defending a motion to reject it beforehand. I thought that this bill was a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u68	But you have to do a bit of politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u69	Of course, the text has a good intention; But what a disappointment! It is this disappointment that leads me to defend this motion for a preliminary rejection on behalf of the Republican Group. Presented as the alpha and omega of our country's economic reform, the bill is in fact insufficient: it does not go far enough, it suffers from great shortcomings and does not deliver on any of its promises. You have referred, Minister, to a number of blockages affecting businesses today, and I agree with your observation. But the question is whether the bill will make it possible to remedy it. You also referred to the forum signed by a number of Members of the Republican Group. I just want to say that the signatories support several of the measures that remove the obstacles to the development of our businesses, but want some of them to be much more ambitious – this was the main purpose of the forum. I will start with the form and then linger on the bottom, so much to say. On the form, first, this text, as it has become customary, had to be drafted urgently.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u70	In the emergency? In six months!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u71	But this is the best way to make the finishings of a foundation wrong. The question is whether we now have the role of remedying these evils before we can get on with the set-up. Clearly, the Government does not want to put the forms into practice. I am against the number of his amendments that were tabled at the last minute when their subject matter was not originally included in the text. As a result of these changes, there has been no basis or support for any opinion on them, either by the Council of State or by the various actors involved and involved. With regard to the latter, you have referred to lengthy debates and exchanges lasting several months; on these amendments, in any case, there were no amendments. Even worse: they have not been the subject of any impact assessment. Let me remind you that the constitutional law of 23 July 2008 imposes an impact assessment, carried out under the responsibility of the minister responsible for presenting the bill and attached to it when it is tabled. However, the one on the PACTE bill file was registered last June and the opinion of the Council of State was registered on 14 June, while the Government's new amendments were tabled last week. There was therefore no dialogue about them. We had already seen that the Government was in favour of facilitating solutions; But it's only easy for him. This makes us witness a sad spectacle of improvisation and amateurism. It is only to see the 386 amendments adopted in a special committee, which double the number of articles in the bill, increasing it from 73 to 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u72	Like the Macron Law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u73	Because the gaps in the text had to be addressed, the most critical points could not be really discussed. And if there was only the form to criticize! But there is also the substance: that of the text... and that which it touches. From this point of view, the word "bottom" has never been more appropriate! As if I were going to make my deal, I could list all the ingredients that are missing in the recipe for it to be successful – so that the bill can address the blockages that you mentioned, minister. Let's start with the core of the subject: businesses, and especially the workforce thresholds. Removing the threshold of 20 employees on a few points does not in any way allow companies to move forward or to project themselves into an economic and employment pattern. You know very well, minister: although the measure seems intended to give the impression that companies will be subject to fewer constraints, this will not be the case since the thresholds of 11 and 50 employees remain. I have no doubt about the good intentions of the Government in this regard, but we cannot let amateurism rule. Has the Government only taken the trouble of considering the facts? Is it so determined that it becomes blind to the fact that the thresholds of 11 and 50 employees are both the most common and the most difficult?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u75	Today, they are the ones who are holding companies back the most.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u76	What have you done better?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u77	How can one imagine that a company will accept, by hiring even one person, to increase its staff from 11 to 12 employees, thus meeting the standards applicable to a company that employs almost 50 employees? Do you really think that the first company has the means of the second? These thresholds are therefore a real barrier to hiring. They place our country in a unique situation in the world: 49 employees are twice as numerous as 50! That figure alone should make us all react. Of course, the introduction of a five-year period to meet the obligations and the harmonization of the method of calculating the workforce will make the lives of entrepreneurs easier...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u78	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u79	...I must recognize this, even if it is only a small measure. I see you reacting: why not go further by pushing the threshold from 50 employees to at least 100, for all the obligations to which it applies, even those included in the labour code?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u80	Remove paid leave while you're at it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u81	You acknowledge that there is a difficulty, since you have a transitional period of five years. Let's move! The stakes are high. Because if our country is one of the world's largest companies, with 591000 start-ups in 2017, these companies are only growing too slowly: we have 5800 mid-sized companies only, compared to over 12,500 in Germany. Let's add to that a review of support for zero export, and we get a soft and slow death for small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. This is demonstrated by the deteriorating trade balance figures, leading to a record external trade deficit of EUR 33.5 billion over the first six months of 2018 – even though Germany, to which you like to refer, Minister, recorded a surplus of EUR 121.5 billion for the same period, despite the increase in oil. With regard to the financing of our enterprises, we would also need more ambition as the planned slight strengthening of the PEA-SMEs and the Euro-growth funds seems insufficient in the face of the urgency of the situation. Why not move the Madelin device, go even further with the PEA-SME or opt for crowdfunding? This would make it possible to fill the gap left by the disappearance of the ISF-SME scheme, and to bring out solid business angels to transform our sterile savings into fertile savings, at the service of French employment. It is indeed a matter of tackling the crucial issue of strengthening the direct investment of our compatriots in our TPEs, our start-ups and our SMEs, by considerably increasing the tax incentive in proportion to the risks taken, like the British example of a strong incentive to invest, up to £1 million, deductible to 30% of income tax. Let us not lack audacity, to reconcile the French with the economy and to make them want to get involved in the lives of our companies! It is a requirement if we want to free the talents, energies, and wills, to become the Silicon Valley of Europe over the next ten years and give our country back the optimism that it should never have lost. The one-stop shop you create in Article 1 e is a good misconception, because if the spirit of the measure is commendable, you miss your target. By organising a dematerialised centralisation of the administrative procedures for creation, modification or termination, while leaving as many legal validations as the bodies that receive and control the file, you do not simplify at all, and ultimately contribute to creating an additional interface. I confess to remaining hungry on this subject, and I do not understand at all the value of adding an intermediary. But what is the purpose of all this? Stimulating employment, research, innovation? In any case, the Government misses its target, because very few jobs can be created without support for innovation – I will then come back to the essential issue of financing it. More than ever, France needs to regain its place in innovative countries and in research. Our graduates are among the best in the world, yet our country is stagnating – worse still, it is regressing. You have spoken of creativity, minister: we must put it forward in our country! Among France, Germany and the United States, our country is the country with the largest number of foreign doctoral students, but also the country with the largest number of job seekers in this sector. Go understand! The national competences leave, and the international competences that we form do not remain. According to the figures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as of 31 December 2017, it is no less than 1.82 million French people who work outside France. This figure is 2.2% higher than in 2016. It's huge! We can no longer let our talent escape. It is necessary to rethink the attractiveness of the institutes, starting with the working environment. However, even when one of your members makes recommendations to you, you do not listen to it. What do you say about the doubling of salaries for early-career researchers, the financial incentives for expatriates and foreigners, or the computing tools that research institutes need to compete with the more than substantial resources of large private actors? On June 21, the Prime Minister finalized his "major investment plan" to support innovation and research. There were four objectives – at least what was posted: climate change, access to employment, competitiveness through innovation, and state transformation. Over five years, €57 billion is spent on this big investment plan – which is not that big. Many announcements are made, but it is with the "should" that the Government treats research and innovation. The government had to – but we could use the term "should" – propose in this PACTE bill measures to facilitate the transfer of innovation from public laboratories to technological start-ups. Finally, it is not. We tell you: this text is incomplete and false. The only measure involved in deregulation is, in Article 9, an increase in the threshold from which an undertaking must resort to an auditor. This is a significant measure since it is one of the worst measures in this PACTE bill. All the commercial courts, which supported the auditors, had alerted the Government to the risk of a major player in preventing business difficulties by means of the alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u82	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u83	It should be noted that 80% of the financing of French SMEs is now based on inter-firm credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u84	It's this system you have to get out of!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u85	The certification by the auditor ensures the sustainability and smoothness of the system. You weaken the quality of the annual accounts, especially in groups where, as you know, turpitudes are not found in parent companies, but in subsidiaries. If businesses need more freedom, it is certainly not by depriving them of an auditor that the Government will help them. What is the heart of a company? This is obviously his activity. And what does it take for this activity to take place calmly? We need reliable accounts. There, Minister, we are not talking about a blockage, but about a real problem. By removing the legal audit in most of the 220,000 companies, you will remove a guarantee of compliance and a guarantee to combat fraud against them; you will undermine the fluidity of financing, especially in the regions. It is paradoxical, however, to deprive the general interest of this essential actor, the auditor, the very week that the National Assembly is about to vote on the law to combat fraud! The auditor shall secure the social and tax base and, consequently, the collection of tax and social contributions from enterprises for the benefit of the State and social protection bodies. Outsourcing control avoids an increase in public spending already out of standard in France. At the same time, you are advocating the development of PEA-SME. This is contradictory because financial institutions will only include the assets of companies in a PEA-SME by having guarantees on the accuracy of the annual accounts of those companies, which you reduce in Article 9, thus preventing the development of PEA-SME. I remember when the Government was selling an unprecedented bill for business. Ingredients were put in the recipe, the dish swollen, then it came out of its oven, and it fell back like a blower. "We're going to simplify the lives of businesses," that was the stated goal. Today, I find it difficult to perceive the ease of adding bonds to the social purpose of companies. I am referring here to clause 61 of the bill, which is intended to add environmental consideration to the social purpose. We are all aware that everyone must participate in environmental efforts to meet environmental needs. However, making it an obligation, a legal norm resulting from sanctions, only limits opportunities for innovation. How can French companies integrate this concept in the face of less binding international competition? They may be weakened. Behaviours evolve on their own; The energy transition is taking place without our being forced to impose it harshly, so hard that it would undermine the competitiveness of our companies, and therefore our national economy. I would add, minister, that I am not sure that all the legal risks associated with this constraint have been measured. This "Bill on Business Growth and Transformation" does not only affect businesses, as its title suggests: the French are all affected by some of the proposed amendments. We see this in the last budgets, and we will see it in the next: it is again up to the French to make efforts, to participate and to support the economy. The pretext for the revival of the economy has been aspired entirely, and again the Government manages to empty even more of the already taric content. The measure of abolishing the social security scheme for enterprises with less than 50 employees who make a payment in the framework of employee participation is ubiquitous: none of them will have recourse to a scheme for employee participation in the fruits of expansion – they will use the contract of interest. But there may be a change, Minister, since you have just announced that the social package would be removed for companies with fewer than 200 employees who would use employee participation in the fruits of expansion. Perhaps you can clarify this point. With regard to energy, this text was visibly designed to satisfy only the wishes of the Government, which found it appropriate and appropriate to insert, by an amendment considered at midnight forty on Friday evening, an additional article to article 71 to enable it to legislate by order on the end of regulated gas and electricity tariffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u86	It's very cavalry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u87	It smells like the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u88	This amendment is of paramount importance when winter comes. French energy spending is now far too heavy in the cost of living. This position is already one of the most important, and the Government would still like to sanction our compatriots? Every day, new blows are taken to their wallets. Of course, this may help to make up for the state's spending, but is it still for the French to pay for poorly calculated government ambitions? Is it up to them to lose on their purchasing power? No! Double no, because you don't seem to understand the simplest calculation that less purchasing power equals less growth! I want to say a word about privatization. What is the Government's strategy to pass the pill and sell public companies? The sales of Engie, Aéroports de Paris and La Française des jeux are supposed to provide the necessary support for the innovation of our country. In reality, the Government is deregulating without a vision for the future. "Enter the joyful world of deregulation! He told us, the very one who will not bring you anything. Let's take the example of the French game. This company pays the State €90 million in dividends each year; It will be sold for €3.5 billion, with a 25-year monopoly. How much will this sale bring back to the state? Long-term euro zero. This calculation will not earn the State any money, because of the strong growth margins of the company that make the results of this operation invalid. Take the example of Paris Airport, which is a particular entity. If, indeed, the State does not have to manage the shops of the Paris airports, or its shops, as has been said by a rapporteur, it is undeniable that it is not possible to divest all the assets of Paris Airports without making a diagnosis, as they include a large number of land with latent gains.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u90	In this area, the stakes can be crucial, strategic; It is a matter of sovereignty. Minister, you have indicated that all guarantees and protections are in place; We have doubts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u91	All united for nationalization!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u92	Of course, these sales simply allow the state to contain its debt, which already amounts to 98.6% of GDP in 2019, and not to exceed the 100% threshold. This would have happened without the direct allocation of proceeds from these sales to debt repayment in 2019. Yet, everything must not be allowed. I would still have many other subjects to discuss, such as the Dutreil Pact, the derogatory status of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the pre-installation internship, but I stop there to reach my conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u93	If you pursued, it would be too communist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u94	This text leaves us with a bitter taste, because the Government does not answer the real questions. Essential problems, such as recruitment and self-employment, are not even addressed. The issue of bank charges, that of the building, is not resolved either. See how long my list is, see how incomplete this text is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u95	You said that this text contained too many articles; You'd have to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u96	Like all previous legislation, the ELAN Housing Act, the EQUALIM Act, for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector, or the law for a State serving a trustworthy society, the PACTE Bill simplifies so little. Finally, every time, it's the same scenario – the law for a state serving a trustworthy society was probably the worst of all these texts. And these texts, which are multiplying, as we try to curb the legislative bulimia, have all been announced with great strokes of polish to, finally, suggest only a few bad notes of requiem. With each text we are promised a simplification of the lives of French and companies. But promises are never kept and, always, it is the mountain that gives birth to a mouse. The Government wants to "take up a major challenge, that of the growth of enterprises, at any stage of their development, to revive the spirit of economic conquest", to "adapt" the French model "to the realities of the twenty-first century". It's a failure. This is all the more a failure because the Government is misusing the legislative procedure to produce a hollow text, which in no way simplifies the lives of companies, which does not remove the obstacles they face or solve their real technical problems. The absence of an impact assessment and the advice of the Council of State on the amendments added at the last moment by the Government alone would be sufficient to justify the rejection of this Bill PACTE. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I invite you to reject this text by voting on the motion tabled by Christian Jacob, chairman of our group. (Applause and "Congratulation! » on the benches of the LR group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u97	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u98	He's shot down by the argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u99	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs. Louwagie, you ate lion, but it's coming out of the boil.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u100	What a finesse, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u101	You overwhelm this bill with all sorts of reproaches, criticisms and invectives. I find it difficult to follow you: in the special committee, you were more open and constructive. The forum of seventy-four parliamentarians of the Republicans Group states: "We support measures aimed at removing obstacles to the development of our businesses, from their creation to their transmission, through their financing," contained in the PACTE bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u102	It is not just parliamentarians The Republicans who signed the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u103	But keep on doing this right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u104	Yes, it's sarkozysm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u105	The Republicans say one thing in the morning and the other in the afternoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u106	Why do you wander into an anger that seems to blind you, making you say contradictory things? You thus affirm that privatization should not be carried out; Then tell your friends presidents of Republican departmental councils not to knock on my door to participate in these operations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u107	You caricature the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u108	You claim that these privatizations could threaten the public interest and the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u109	And she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have no doubt that you have found support on the left side of the House, since I have long understood that an arc of circle now connects the radical left and the Republicans in economic matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u111	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u112	You're good with François Hollande's former advisor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u113	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But you will allow me to be surprised at your criticism of privatizations when Mr.Eric Woerth, in Les Échos, believes that these do not go far enough. Hear yourself! Similarly, Guillaume Peltier states that the SMIC must be increased by 20%, while other members of your currents rightly warn that such a measure would lead to mass unemployment. You say that the abolition of auditors in SMEs is one of the worst measures of the CAPTE; So why don't you explain it to all the SMEs that pay them 5500 euros a year, while their European competitors don't have to! If you do not agree with the European threshold of 8 million euros of turnover, 4 million euros of balance sheet and 50 employees so that a company is obliged to have an auditor, and you want more controls than our European partners, explain it! But then, Mrs Louwagie, do not come to tell us that French companies do not have the means to play the same game with their European counterparts because what you are proposing is to add balls to their feet. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u114	We'll see what happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u115	You tell us that competition with our European and international partners is now distorted and that we do not have the means to develop; Therefore, support all the measures contained in the PACTE that will remove these brakes. Support the adoption of thresholds; support simplification measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u116	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u117	Vote on the five-year deadline for companies to comply with their obligations once they reach the 50 employees threshold. I could still cite many contradictions between what you are saying and what other members of the Republicans are saying, particularly in the rostrum published this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u118	Reciprocality is true, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] These contradictions show only one thing: in economic matters, the Republicans are in full ideological disarray.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u120	Like you on the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u121	You don't have the right to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u122	In explanation of vote, Mr Charles de Courson spoke for the UDI-Agir Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u123	The IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote against this motion of rejection. Mrs Louwagie is not wrong about the form; but – alas! – Many governments, including those you supported, Mrs Louwagie, have done the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u124	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u125	That you supported, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u126	Yes, but I'm a little special because I even voted a motion of censure against a government when I belonged to its majority. We're only eight in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u127	It's called schizophrenia!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u128	I'm coming to the bottom. In essence, Mrs Louwagie – you recognize it yourself since you have been very involved in the committee – the text contains progress and progress. Of course, you can always say we haven't gone far enough, but be careful. I've been here for six terms, you two; Of course, you have always been in opposition, but you will still be asked why the governments of your political family have not done what this text proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u129	Yes, they did! They did the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] A little moderation, then. We are in favour of this text, even if it suffers from imperfections. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u131	The next speaker is Mr Dominique Potier, for the Socialist and Related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u132	This first speech is very demanding because you are very intellectually soliciting us. A few minutes ago, the minister congratulated the Republicans for a support forum, and soon after that, this group proposed to reject the text. Confusion reigns! We are told of an arc that passes over or through us; For our part, we will abstain on this motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u133	We're not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u134	...to give priority to referral back to committee. Indeed, there is an urgent need to rethink business in the 21st century and this text is welcome. I must also say – this is the time of civility, but they are sincere – that we have had a fluid and respectful debate in committee, with interlocutors listening. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteurs and the ministers for this. But the committee has also been the place for surprise amendments, mysterious amendments, on major subjects. Impact studies are terribly lacking on capital points, such as privatisation or the change of thresholds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u135	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups]] We believe that the real meeting is the deepening of this law. Indeed, the majority did not have time to listen to our nine proposals to rethink business in the 21st century, and it would be a shame if we did not meet to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u137	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u138	Mr Minister, you are mistaken in the analysis of the motion defended by our colleagues in the Les Républicains group: they do not say that they agree with France insoubted or the arch of the left, but that, on the contrary, from their point of view, you do not go far enough. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Republicans, you seem to believe, like Emmanuel Macron, that to revive activity in our country, it would be enough to lift administrative blockages and to remove too heavy rules without which liberal magic could operate. We do not share this view and we will have the opportunity to say so. However, according to our practice, we will vote on your motion to reject, not by endorsing the dangerous demonstration to which Mrs Louwagie has given herself up in the rostrum, but by an interested logic which simply aims to reject this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u139	It's the archeo-communist arch...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u140	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u141	Mr Minister, you have rightly pointed out a number of contradictions among our colleagues in the Republican Group, particularly with regard to the issue of privatization. I heard what you said, Mrs Louwagie, but in my region, many of your friends are at work to speed up processes of this nature; I'm surprised what you're saying. You said one true thing, namely – I will say it with my words – that this text resembles the beard of Captain Caverne: there is a very diverse attraction of very liberal measures. Over the course of his examination, he has come up with news, and I hope that we will not be surprised to discover others during the debate in session. These formal arguments may lead to the rejection of this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For our part, we are fighting this text and we do not think it is welcome because it contains many bad reforms. It is for these substantive reasons, as opposed to the philosophy of this bill, that we will vote on this motion of rejection. We do not find it necessary to go further, quite the contrary: we oppose privatization – sometimes risky operations, as you rightly pointed out in your speech – and the deregulation that form the basis of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u142	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor for the La République on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u143	We are at the heart of a paradox. On the one hand, there has never been so much wealth created; On the other hand, we have never experienced so many income inequalities. In France, unemployment, trade deficit, low investment savings in companies...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u144	It's all part of the dividend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u145	... are all weaknesses that force us to continue to mobilize. The PACTE bill is France's first response to these challenges, which are neither left nor right, but concern all the French. The spirit of this bill is simple: to free by removing the constraints of companies, from creation to transmission; protect by better involving employees in the results of the enterprise; to unite by aligning the interests of all economic actors and redefining the place of the company in society. We debated more than fifty hours in committee around a text that was itself built after months and months of consultation and dialogue. Our president said: 626 economic actors and 38 trade union and professional organisations participated in the writing of this text written by them, with them, for them. In committee, we adopted 383 amendments, 92 of which were tabled by the other political groups. The debate was therefore real and concrete. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You're saying we've been working in an emergency; Since the text has been prepared for more than a year, we do not have the same notion of urgency. You say you are disappointed, so consult the companies in your territories. You say that the project is insufficient; Yes, but we're acting. This morning, you published a forum to call for your wishes for changes and for your proposals to be taken into account, which you repeated in your statement at the rostrum; In this case, it is not a motion of rejection that you should have tabled, but a motion of referral to committee. We have to stay consistent or abstain! For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u146	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u147	The next speaker is Mr Arnaud Viala, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u148	Minister, if we stand today for this motion to reject, it is because we have trusted you in the past on economic issues. The vast majority of us have passed the Labour Law orders, but after several months of implementing the provisions of this law, we are beginning to seriously question the effectiveness and results of this legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u150	Over the past few weeks, we have contributed as positively as possible to the debate on the so-called EQUALIM law, with the intention of voting the text. But it has been hard to make our position heard on the issues at stake in French agriculture. Today, as Véronique Louwagie put it, the PACTE bill poses a problem both in form and substance. On the form, let us go back to the question of time limits. After a hard discussion, we managed to get the amendments tabled in the very first days of September; Is this reasonable when you want to do a serious and precise job on such a serious subject? During the special committee discussion, only a handful of amendments tabled by our small group were adopted; Does this show a willingness to open up on your part? Is the increase in the number of items from 73 to 143 an indication of adequate preparedness by the Government? In substance, as you know, we want to deal with a number of issues, first and foremost the issue of thresholds – I am thinking in particular of the threshold of 50 employees. The economic recovery of our country must be based on the territories, which all have their peculiarities. Untiringly, we make ourselves their spokespersons, putting the forms in them – I do not think we can be accused of having been unpleasant, negative or obstructed during the work of the special committee –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u151	You're in the position! You supported the text in a special committee, and now you are calling for it to be rejected in the sitting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...but we're not heard. Since it is impossible to put forward our proposals to correct the economy and enable our businesses to grow, we will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u153	The next speaker is Mr Mohamed Laqhila, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u154	First of all, I would like to welcome my colleague Véronique Louwagie's commitment to the defence and support of companies. For that very reason, I am a little surprised at this motion to reject it beforehand. As you said yourself, this text is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u155	Not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u156	Maybe he's not going far enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u157	It also contains harmful provisions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u158	[[Protests on several benches of the LR group]] This motion of rejection is therefore incomprehensible – I would even say scandalous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u159	Big words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u160	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I expected it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u161	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u162	Yes, the companies were waiting for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u163	They're waiting for a lot of other things!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u164	They've been waiting too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u165	SMEs and TPEs are still waiting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u167	Shut up, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We listened to Mrs Louwagie, and yet it was laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u168	Thank you to our majority for offering us a text long awaited by the French and our companies. Of course, our group will vote against this motion of censure... I'm sorry, this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u169	[[Smile]] Everyone understood you, Mr. Laqhila.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u170	He doesn't even know what he's talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u171	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u172	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 180 Number of votes cast 167 Absolute majority 84 For adoption 55 Against 112
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u173	I have received a motion from Mrs Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialist and Related Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u174	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, if there was only one reason to justify the referral to committee, that would be the wrong way. In a special committee, on 15 September, around midnight, forty-five, while many of us were sitting in the Chamber to discuss the ban on glyphosate, you defended, Mr Minister, in a somewhat cavalier manner, a quite singular amendment: Amendment No. 2030, which adds an additional article after Article 71 and empowers the Government to take by order any measures which would, in particular, put an end to regulated gas tariffs. The latter would expire one year after the order was promulgated, for professionals, and on July 1, 2023, for "residential customers, sole proprietors of a residential building and unions of co-owners of such a building benefiting from the regulated rates". All this without impact assessment or budgetary or financial evaluation! We have the right to question the relationship between this amendment and the bill we are discussing. Clearly, Mr Minister, our special committee has not been able to properly examine a provision whose consequences may be heavy for millions of French and French and, precisely, for the companies you are concerned about and which are committed to the competitiveness-price of energy. For this reason, it is necessary to refer this bill back to committee, otherwise we would take a real risk – which no one wants – as to whether the conditions for the review of this section are in conformity with the constitutional provisions. This referral to the committee would also allow us to deepen a debate which we felt was too rapid on a number of major subjects. I want to mention in particular the privatisations of Paris and French Games airports. We would have liked to continue the debate to convince you, first of all, that the privatisation of these two companies is an economic aberration. Selling family jewels, which pay dividends to the state while the same state borrows at extremely low rates or even at negative rates, makes no sense. The French Games and ADP today pay the state dividends roughly equivalent to the breaking innovation fund that you are planning to create! If we study the fundamentals of ADP, we find that they are well oriented – over the last five years, the price of the share has increased from 74 to 193 euros – suggesting that the company alone could have ensured the return of the fund. You tell us that the latter will have a return of 2.5%, but let me point out, Minister, that this rate is much higher than the current return on government bonds. This decision is all the more aberrant, from an economic point of view, as the privatisation of ADP will oblige you to pay financial compensation of the order of EUR 1 billion. The Government is privatising because it is essentially in need of liquidity. He had an annuity, but he prefers capital. To tell the truth, he does not manage the interests of the state as a good father. You are pursuing a short-sighted policy, without learning any lessons from the privatisation of motorways. Motorway companies have seen their profits increase by 20% over the last ten years: 1.5 billion euros of dividends per year are missing from the State, while toll revenues have increased by around 2% per year for more than 10 years, despite the regulation provided by the General Infrastructure Directorate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u175	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u176	Beyond economic aberration, these two privatisations are nonsense, strategic mistakes. This is true first of all for the French game. If public authorities are able to balance the fight against addictions and the protection of players, on the one hand, and the optimization of the product of games, on the other hand, a private company will not have the same requirements and will not want to bear the expenses related to the prevention of addictions and over-indebtedness. The French game is not a company like the others, because the game is not a commodity like the others. You know, like me, the numbers of addiction, every year confirmed by the Games Observatory. Christophe Blanchard-Dignac, the former president of French gaming, felt that it was difficult to arbitrate between the results and the company's social responsibility. The balancing of these two objectives and his sense of responsibility led him, in 2014, to remove the game Rapido, considered too addictive. What about a private shareholder? For the leaders of a French private gaming company, what will the defense of responsible gambling weigh against the temptation to pay shareholders? Moreover, as you know – on this subject, the debate is lively – French gaming is the first contributor to "sport for all" in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u177	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u178	Its efforts account for 80 per cent of the resources of the National Centre for Sport Development; This comes from the collection of his lottery games, scraping and sports bets. It is true that the Government reduced these assigned taxes from 220 million euros in 2017 to 93 million euros in 2018, for the French game alone. This plank worries the sports world and makes fear a disengagement of the French from the games in the financing of the sport. Privatisation of Paris airports is also a strategic and even doubly strategic mistake. First, ADP is a national public service within the meaning of the preamble of the 1946 Constitution. As such, the business must remain owned by the community. In addition, ADP is a designer, at the heart of the development project of the Greater Paris and the francilian region. It is also for this reason that the company must remain the property of a public community. It is located at the junction of the CDG Express and the metro line 17 of the Grand Paris. It is part of the Coeur d'Orly project, which provides for the construction of a 15-hectare business district and a multimodal platform. With the exception of Australia, all major nations have left their airports under public flags. Moreover, in the 2005 law, the legislator had wanted ADP's capital to remain predominantly public. You are not protecting yourself, Minister, against a loss of state control over the company's strategy. There is a proven risk of reorienting to more diverse and income-generating activities, in trade or real estate, or towards the search for international growth there as more rewarding than regulated tariffs. The risk of eviction on the investments necessary for the development of national air transport in the Parisian hub is considerable. The second strategic mistake is that you risk seriously harming the strategic interests of a company that is no less so: I am referring to Air France. While airports compete with each other, they also compete with each other. The double cashier system you have chosen to maintain increases this risk. All private airports are more expensive than public airports. Airport taxes are likely to increase in the coming years. In reality, these privatisation projects reveal that you are pursuing a short-term policy, that you do not really have a strategy of the shareholder state and that your industrial strategy is very modest. Basically, for you, the right place of the state in the economy is above all outside of companies! We would have liked the referral back to committee to be an opportunity to explore a number of issues, the effects of which have not been fully assessed. I am thinking of the balance of the wage pact, which is a major issue, but also of the impact of the change in thresholds – has it really been measured? I could also raise the issue of transparency of wage differentials. Minister, we would have liked to continue to work to demonstrate that, behind words that are sometimes common to us – the codetermination with French, the social function of the company, the transparency of the pay gap, the fight against excessive pay – are in reality hiding different projects, conflicting intentions, ambitions that are not common to us. We would have liked a little more time to convince you to show a little more audacity. I'm afraid there's, behind your proposals, if not bad intentions, at least some form of falsification. [[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups]] That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist and related Group, to vote on this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u179	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u180	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u181	I assure you, Mr Vallaud, we do not want to do anyone wrong, and we will not do any of them in this debate. With regard to regulated tariffs, I would point out that the Council of State, in a decision this year, called on us to comply with European rules on regulated gas tariffs. I want to reassure consumers who listen to us: regulated tariffs are now higher than market rates. As far as privatisation is concerned, I think we will have a great debate, so I will not go into the details. I would just like to recall that we have planned to learn all the lessons from the privatisation of motorways. Thus, the terms of reference that have been sent to you explicitly state that airport tariffs will remain regulated by the state – this was not the case for motorway companies, which, as I recognized in the special committee, caused a number of drifts. I come to the relationship between ADP and Air France. You can criticise ADP's privatisation, but you cannot say that it will affect Air France's profitability. I would remind you that airport taxes account for 3% of this company's turnover; It seems to me that the improvement of Air France's competitiveness must focus more on the remaining 97% than on these 3% taxes. On the state, I do not want to develop this point for too long, but I also want to reassure you. We have a clear strategy – this is not necessarily the case on all banks – and we assume it: strong public services – La Poste's transformation is the best example – investments in the future financed by the divestiture of assets and, lastly, the protection of economic public order, which I am working on both in Blanquefort and in Ascoval. As for our industrial strategy, we will discuss it again. It is simple: training, innovation, an improvement in the competitiveness-cost of our companies. The latest examples cited, including the Prime Minister's choice of an over-amortization of investment in digitisation for SMEs, are excellent examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u182	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Régis Juanico, for the Socialist and Related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u183	Minister, during the general discussion of the text before the special committee, I wanted – a little mischievously, I admit – that your text did not know the same fate as the Macron law passed in 2015. This text – which our president Richard Ferrand knows well for having been the general rapporteur – had doubled in volume between the initial draft and the final draft. This time, you are breaking every record of legislative inflation: we are only at first reading and your bill has already doubled in volume between the commission and the public sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u184	It's just blablazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u185	Do the length or volume of a text guarantee the effectiveness of the economic measures contained in it? We will soon know, as the Macron Act will be evaluated three years after its adoption. This text had been adopted by recourse to 49.3. This will not be the case with yours; There will be a majority to vote on it – the suspense is not very great. But I hope that you will provide for an assessment of the effectiveness of its economic measures over the course of the year. Why send the text back to committee? Quite simply because, if we vote on certain provisions, Parliament will be disbanded from certain major issues. Boris Vallaud regretted the absence of a serious economic, financial, social and societal impact assessment of the privatisations envisaged: that of ADP, that of the French gaming company – of which I mentioned in committee the consequences in the field of public health – as well as the disposal of Engie's assets. You're not considering any alternative scenarios. However, one could imagine feeding the fund for break-up innovation with dividends and not by robbing the national heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups]] Why send the text back to committee? Simply because the Government is asking Parliament for authorization to legislate by ordinances. The executive wants to write the law for us. We believe that it is up to parliamentarians to do so, especially when it comes to dealing with regulated gas and electricity tariffs or the regulation of gambling. On these major, strategic issues, it is up to parliamentarians to decide. That is why we will vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u186	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u187	For all the reasons stated by Boris Vallaud and for many others he has neglected in passing, we will vote on the motion for referral back to committee, with a wild hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u188	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u189	We will also vote on the motion, because we agree with Mr. Vallaud's arguments. I also refer you to Pierre Dharréville's comments. We wish to discuss the bill again in committee, because we oppose its philosophy, which is always to dissociate the general interest from the economic world. However, if it is not at the service of a more just society, the prosperity of an economy cannot meet the consent of the national community. Will the French approve laws that promote economic development if it is a source – through deregulation, privatization, differentiation between remuneration and wages, and the weakening of social protection – of growth, which, if it increases dividends, increases inequalities and impoverishes society? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Reconciling business and society is, on the contrary, providing for more rules. The rule serves not to prevent the initiative but to guide and promote the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u191	The next speaker is Mr Stanislas Guerini, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u192	Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and related group, I believe that you yourself would be a little disappointed if we voted on the motion to refer the matter back to committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u193	I don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u194	I don't think so, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u195	What?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u196	Besides, I see that you are not very mobilized to defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u197	As much as you to fight it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u198	Proportionally, we are more numerous than you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u199	Since we are a benevolent majority, concerned with the moral and mental well-being of our oppositions, we will obviously not vote on this motion. (Applause from the LaREM Group) In fact, I believe that you are ready to discuss with us the place we want to place for companies in our society. You are ready because you had tabled a bill entitled "New Business and Governances". You regretted that we were delaying the discussion of your proposals. And while Chapter III of the bill covers them widely, you are now asking us to postpone consideration of the text in open session! What a paradox! I wonder if the redefinition of the concept of enterprise in the civil code, which you call of your wishes, can wait. I don't think so. Can the mission companies you call your vows wait? I don't think so. Can the shareholder foundations you call your vows wait? I don't think so. Can the abolition of the social package for TPEs and SMEs wait? I don't think so. Can the presence of a second director on the boards of directors wait? I don't think so. Can the fairness report you call of your vows wait? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u200	Frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] No, I don't think French companies and employees can wait. So, since you are ready, since we are, place for debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u202	For measures on short contracts, on the other hand, we are still waiting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u203	We're coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u204	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u205	Mr Vallaud, you mentioned a number of points. Some relate to privatization. I have had the opportunity to speak to this by defending the motion to reject it beforehand. The first case concerns the French game. Important questions arise as to the activity of this society. You can't reason on gambling, gambling, without taking into account the addictions they can cause. It is important to ensure that all means to combat illegal online gambling and to strengthen addiction prevention are used. There is also a need to resolve the issue of monopoly, on which there are several amendments. Should the monopoly be lifted or not? It's a real problem. Article 51 deserves reflection and deepening. Then comes the Aéroports de Paris file. As you said, minister, some of us are more in favour of privatization. Nevertheless, in addition to shops and online shops, ADP's assets include some of the surrounding land, which is a key issue. We need to reflect on the control of land tenure and on the will or desire of local and regional authorities. Departments may have an interest in observing what is happening there. All of this deserves to be taken into consideration. There is also a need to look at the balance between the wage pact and the social package. For our part, we want to go even further, as the companies ask. They want us to move towards an exemption from the social package and a challenge to the threshold of 50 employees. I am not sure that we should go in the direction suggested by Mr Vallaud, but these issues deserve further consideration. That is why we will vote on the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u207	On the motion to refer the matter back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Florennes, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u208	I am surprised at your dissatisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, with the Socialist and related groups. Yes, I am surprised that at the end of fifty-three hours of a particularly constructive discussion, in which you participated actively, and which allowed us to consider some 2000 amendments, you wanted to refer this text back to committee. I quickly stop by to commend the very good work carried out by the chairman of the special committee, who was able to keep the deadlines while leaving room for debate, a debate which we called for and which I recalled the richness of. I understand all the less the motion for reference as the subject calls for some effectiveness. We are working to ensure that the TPEs and SMEs, the main employers in this country – should we remind them? –, can find a new momentum, a new breath. Stanislas Guerini said before me: to encourage the presence of employees on the boards of directors, to allow them to benefit from a fairer redistribution by making compulsory participation in the companies of more than 50 employees, to redefine the social purpose of the company by integrating social and environmental responsibility, these are all themes to which we know you particularly attached. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I'm not going to extend that inventory. I would point out, however, that the co-construction work carried out with all the actors involved has enabled us to arrive at a text which we believe is quite complete and indispensable. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u209	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u210	If I have understood his argument correctly, Mr Vallaud wants to refer the text back to committee because it provides for two privatisations: that of ADP and French gaming. First of all, I would like to point out with humour that the most privatized government is the socialist government. You claim, my dear colleague, that privatization is bad in itself. When they were in power, your friends thought the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u211	Yes, but that was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u212	Where were you at that time, Mr. Vallaud?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u213	Let's go further. On the French game, you suggest that the fight against addiction will disappear once the company is privatized. That's completely incorrect. This will depend on an independent authority, which will be responsible in particular for this struggle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u214	It will be a single authority, not an independent authority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u215	Yes, I do! Read the texts! Besides, why not nationalize casinos as well? They also cause addictions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u216	It's a public service! Bad pick.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u217	And why not also nationalize the PMU, of which you must know that it is private? Would you like to nationalize him, too? You have to be consistent, and you are not. As for the platforms, I wish you pleasure if you want to nationalize them, because they can be exterritorialized in two spoons to pot. So your argument about ADP doesn't hold. You may not know this because you are young in this House, but I was the draftsman of the 2005 Airport Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u218	Wasn't it 1920?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u219	It's paleontology!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u220	I would like to remind you of two points. First, ADP has already become international. Do you not know? Although public, she bought the Istanbul platform. She owns platforms in Africa. Why claim that privatization is a terrible operation, which will lead to internationalisation? This one already exists, and it's a very good thing. One can also dream of a Europeanised ADP company, which would bring together several groups of platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u221	Definitely, the Gaullists are no longer what they were!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u222	On the other hand, you claim that privatized airports have higher fares, but when comparing a fare, you also have to compare a service. However, in the international ranking, the company ADP is unfortunately not very well rated. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and REM groups]] These few elements explain that our group will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u223	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u224	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 113 Number of votes cast 112 Absolute majority 57 For adoption 32 Against 80
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u225	In the general debate, Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u226	[["Ah! » on several benches]] Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Madam Chair of the Special Committee, Mr. Rapporteur-General, ladies and gentlemen, thematic rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, at the very end of our debate, I will defend an amendment to rename the PACTE bill as "a bill containing various economic, social and financial provisions". This amendment summarises the impression that the IDU, Action and Independent Group felt when reading this text: we saw a patchwork of scattered measurements, which makes it difficult to find a spine and prevents the meaning of this project. Before I go into the details, I must propose to you, Minister, another pact: the one that the Government should seal with parliamentarians to proscribe very important government amendments that are not subject to any impact assessment. Of the 40 articles added to the committee, many, resulting from amendments defended either by the Government or by the majority, have made substantial changes. I will mention only the most important: one is related to the role of CCI France, another to the participation of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations in La Poste, another to the termination of the regulated gas tariffs. But there are many more. Even if – let's say frankly – your predecessors have used and abused the same methods, this is not acceptable, especially after several months of consultation and waiting. Now, let's get to the bottom. What are our points of convergence on this bill? Overall, we consider it to be in the right direction. It includes courageous measures, long overdue, such as the partial abolition of the social package, the cancellation of certain thresholds or the smoothing of the effects of the latter. Let us not minimize the scope of these advances. On each positive point, our group will act in the same way: it will defend amendments to push you to go further, for example in the area of social package – I turn to Laure de La Raudière – by significantly increasing the thresholds of 10 and 50 employees. My colleague Christophe Naegelen will also come back. You have partly responded in committee to this desire to go further on the reform of retirement savings. Again, this reform is in the right direction, but there are room for manoeuvre. We are therefore pleased that the Government has accepted our proposal to extend it to include points or units of rent for civil servants and public officials. The minister's opening, when I questioned him before the summer, has already materialized; This is a real step forward. In the same way, we have introduced the integration of frozen current accounts, PERCO – savings plans for collective retirement – and PERCOI – savings plans for collective inter-firm retirement – into the legal framework of the Eckert law on inactive accounts, as well as the improvement of the governance of these funds. A number of points can still be improved, Minister: this will be the subject of our discussions over the next two weeks. The announcement of the 400 million euros of savings that will be requested from the chambers of commerce and industry is quite regrettable in view of what had been announced to them...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u227	That's right, especially for the little ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u228	...which is more after several years of falling the ceiling on earmarked resources, but we take note of it. ITCs now need to be empowered to achieve these savings. This is what you are doing in section 13, but the next step is to transform the status of the staff of the chambers of commerce into a collective agreement. We will propose several amendments in this direction – I understand that you were not completely closed, at least for some of them. With regard to the divestiture of public assets, we, for our part, are not at all hostile to privatisation – we are liberals – and, in the face of certain dogmatic positions, I will defend some pragmatic amendments. What counts for successful privatization is above all the method; That of the motorway concessions, it is true, left a bad memory – for my part, I had fought them, at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u230	For Aéroports de Paris, the shortcomings are, on the other hand, an excess of legislative precaution with regard to the calculation of the compensation and, on the other hand, a certain vagueness in the manner in which the shares of the State are awarded. It is essential to organise a call for tenders; I tell you again, minister: this will protect you from possible accusations of copying and favouritism. This also applies to French games. Once again, we wish for the success of these divestitures of public assets, but this will not be the case if the Constitutional Council censors part of the scheme or if we multiply the counterparties a little suffocating and disobedient for potential investors. We are prepared to improve the bill on these points, but also to add parts that would have their full place in it. For example, we do not see a business transfer component, even though I expect that we will come back to it as soon as the finance bill is in place. We will defend, for example, the suspension of inheritance rights when a family member takes over the business for at least ten years, and their cancellation beyond that period. Since the tax measures are referred to the finance bill, the part of the business finance bill is not revolutionary, even if it is in our view going in the right direction. We would have liked the Government to propose measures to facilitate the financing of SMEs through financial markets. This is why our group proposes to recreate collective issues of shares or bonds for SMEs – a scheme that existed more than ten years ago. We have some points of divergence which, with compromise amendments, should evolve favourably in the sitting – at least we hope so. Our colleague Paul Christophe will defend, on behalf of our group, the continuation of the pre-installation training course – SPI – because training is the condition for the success and survival of many small businesses. And if its cost is a brake – it's barely 200 euros – let's make it free, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u232	This would cost EUR 1.2 million. Personally, I am also sceptical about the relaxation of the separate account obligation. We have had a great debate on this subject in committee, including, moreover, with members of the majority. However, it seems to me to be a valuable clarification tool for small entrepreneurs, which is also useful in the fight against money laundering and terrorism. I am also very skeptical about the so-called "social object" of the company, in article 61 – not that I do not like to philosopherize the raison d'être of each other, but because, as Montesquieu put it, "unnecessary laws weaken the necessary laws". However, what is needed in this area is to allow businesses to start up easily and simply, grow, be transmissible and make a profit. With regard to the reform of the governance of the Caisse des dépôts, we consider that, as it stands, the Government's text is not acceptable. We will be paying attention to the developments that could be made at the sitting and will support the amendment by our colleagues Carrez and Savatier, which I have co-signed. I understand in your speech, minister, that you were in favour of it. It is true that the amendment to make La Poste a subsidiary of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations rebuffs the cards; It would be a major change in the mission of the latter, and some even think that it would eventually lead to a change in its nature. But there is no reason to question the historic role of parliamentarians since 1816, especially since the current situation is generally satisfactory. I am well aware that not all these subjects are of major importance to the French, but, in addition to the amendments without impact assessment and the deadlines for tabling, this text should not increase the opportunities to hold parliamentarians as a negligible quantity. As you will see, Minister, our points of convergence are clearly far more numerous than our reservations. We expect this discussion to take place during the evolutions, and you can count on our group to encourage you to be even more courageous, especially when it comes to unlocking innovation and simplifying the lives of our companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u233	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u234	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee – allow me, dear colleague, to congratulate you on the work done – Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, the thematic rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to discuss, after a year of waiting, a bill that has already been before us in committee for a long time. Over the next two weeks, we will have the opportunity to explore a number of issues and compare our views. Last January, our group tabled a bill called "New Enterprise and New Governances", in which we proposed a dozen ideas for the 21st century – which we believe could bring together. I remember precisely your philosophical support for these ideas, minister, and the words of the majority speaker, who told us that we could discuss our proposals in depth during the debate on this bill. At the end of the special committee review, we feel a huge disappointment. On words, philosophy, we were able to agree, manifest common goals. But, in fact, for the time being, you have not accepted almost any of our proposals. It's a missed date. A lot of noise for nothing, I would say, in view of the discussion that was promised to us during our consideration of our bill. It is in the midst of this disappointment, but driven by a strong perseverance, that we approach the examination in public session. I will not dwell on privatization, which, unlike Charles de Courson, seems to us to be a bad idea in the long term and, in the short term, a miscalculation of the profitability of the state's dividends. Nor will I come back here – we will have the opportunity to do so in the course of the debates – on the imbalance that could be caused by the emphasis on self-interest in employees' incomes. We will also have the opportunity to question the merits of the weakening of certain safeguards, which we consider to be extremely important to our businesses, particularly with regard to the principle of loyalty. I will focus on the ideas we put forward last January. The fact that they have not been followed is, I repeat, a real missed date and a source of regret for our assembly. In fact, these ideas manifest a new phenomenon, which is not only a marker for us, on the left, but which could also have been, in our view, a hope for the world of work. To the left, today we are – and we hear it – able to emerge from three archaisms. The first archaism is to think that business is the place of evil. We deeply believe that it is the occasion for a human opening, that it is not moved only by the lure of gain, that it is not the golden calf but the construction of a common work, of which everyone is involved. Great words have been heard: "inspired community", "new path in globalization". For our part, we make very concrete proposals inspired by a vision of the company that is not just the lure of gain. On the left, we can think of a public power that does not oppose entrepreneurship but instead creates the conditions for it. I love the image of the banks of a river that forms the law, the public power; Without them, we would not have a more powerful river, but a swamp.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u235	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u236	We are convinced that, for this coming civilization, we have to think, on the scale of the territories as well as that of the planet, of the banks which are capable of channelling entrepreneurship, particularly with regard to the superpowers which the multinationals have become, which today escape from common law. We do not oppose public power and entrepreneurship, because we experience that, wherever they exist – I know those related to land sharing – intelligent regulation creates environmental, social and economic added value, while liberalism is a source of impoverishment in these three areas. The role of politics must be to add these forces, in an unprecedented way. On the left, we believe that the solution is not in the world's closure, but in a new way of understanding it. Mireille Delmas-Marty referred, in relation to some of the laws we have defended, to a "solone sovereignty", which should gradually give way to a "solidary sovereignty". It is this ambition that we want to achieve, that of a France that invents new rights and duties in globalisation and is capable of offering instruments and being a source of dialogue at international level, by Europe, with Europe – at all costs. We call for a new European tax pact, a new role for banks across the Union, a revisited foreign trade and a common European thinking. Today we want to bring the words of a left who has confidence in the spirit of entrepreneurship, who believes in a New Deal between entrepreneurship and public power and who is convinced that Europe is the framework and crucible of this new enterprise in the 21st century. We will have the opportunity to develop the nine ideas that we have, and on which I would like to focus now. We hope that these nine ideas, which you have heard so little, for most of them so far, will open a dialogue in depth, free of slag or peripetia. We hope to have the opportunity to say how they are meeting your goal of "new prosperity," to use your words, minister. This prosperity does not seem to us, on the contrary, to be called into question by our proposals. Unless the negative externalities of enterprises are thought to be fiction, a new wording of article 1833 of the Civil Code should be drawn up, using appropriate terms: companies must be managed in accordance with the interests of the enterprise, taking into account the economic, social and environmental consequences of their activities. Words are important, and these are different from what you propose. We will have a debate on this point. If you do not consider that employees are a burden and weight for the company, if you consider their own genius and opinions to be an asset for it, then you will accept our proposals that employee representatives constitute one third of the board members in companies with more than 1000 employees and half in those with more than 5000 employees. Eight European countries have developed this model and rely on codetermination for their prosperity: the result is that they are not experiencing the crisis. If you consider us that there has been a huge distortion in the distribution of value added between the remuneration of capital and wages since the 1990s, then you will accept the transparency of wages and our idea of regulating them. Indeed, wage differentials in excess of a ratio of 1 to 12 or 1 to 20 are more a privilege than a real burden. In order to regulate these wage gaps, we propose new tax rules that can restore coherence, cohesion, imagination and creativity in our society and within the company. If you do not consider that wage savings and employee participation are only redistribution mechanisms, if you think they can be an investment for the future, then you will accept that we will be reducing the bulk of tax aid for retirement savings and wage savings towards the energy transition, because it seems to us that there is no other urgency today for our planet, for our economy and for our societies. If you do not regard the social economy as a bad thing and as the useful idiot of capitalism, then you will accept that we strengthen it. The special committee has reached political agreement on the modernisation of the status of public limited liability companies – SAPO – which we welcome and thank you for. We propose two other very concrete elements: the genuine codetermination of companies on mission within companies and the creation of a legible, public and future label for the social and solidarity economy, which meets the expectations of this sector. Finally, if you do not consider – and this is extremely important to us – that our tax bases are now fair, then you will accept that the entire tax data be communicated to the bodies representing the staff, so that the law is in conformity with the Constitution. By extending the tax bases for the French and European public powers, we hope to be able to reduce the rate of corporate tax for all businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, around a "SME pact", we formulate about ten pro-business proposals designed to promote their loyalty and roots. They range from the right of the craft industry to the status of young entrepreneurs, taking into account the priority of claims in firms in difficulty and the ability to access public procurement in these delicate phases. These very concrete proposals are aimed at reviving opportunities for companies in transition or crisis phases. These are the innovative ideas that we want to defend fiercely. Finally, I would like to remind you that they have a history. These new ideas for business in the 21st century stem mainly from debates held at the Collège des Bernardins over the last ten years. These discussions saw the confrontation of men and women such as Antoine Lyon-Caen, Armand Hatchuel or Blanche Segrestin. I would like to pay tribute to them today, as to Olivier Favereau and Christophe Clerc. Their multidisciplinary and open work, involving NGOs, trade unionists, entrepreneurs and researchers from several disciplines, has renewed the theoretical framework and the thinking of the company. Together with Boris Vallaud, Régis Juanico and Marie-Noëlle Battistel, responsible for this text for our group, we did the same and worked for about 30 hours with entrepreneurs, researchers, NGOs and trade unionists to draft the amendments we tabled. We hope that the latter will be carefully examined, because they echo important work, undertaken by Alain Supiot and Cynthia Fleury, and several calls made in this country and in Europe to renew the company deeply. A large company law will not stand in the way of the debates that we are relaying. We hope that not only will our amendments be accepted, but they will allow those who have not made this journey to discover a new intellectual source in the public debate. Finally, we are putting all of our proposals in a European perspective. We are just a few months away from European elections which can only terrorise all the democrats and those who hold the responsibilities of power, who see the world break up and nationalisms and populism rise. We deeply believe, with Boris Vallaud, with our political movement and beyond, that European enterprise in the 21st century must distinguish itself from Asian models of state capitalism and Anglo-Saxon neoliberal models. [[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups and GDR]] We must, around European ethics, our philosophical foundations and our unique history, build a European business model that enables us to engage in the dialogue of globalisation with elements of competitiveness rooted in our history and capable of bringing together the democratic forces of our country. A mobility agency, transparent and fair taxation on a European scale, the extension of the principle of codetermination to all European companies, the duty of vigilance, invented by France, and the respect for human rights and the environment by our subcontractors across the world are principles that can establish a European ethic of the company; This bill could be the outline, provided that we do not pay for words, that we go to the end of the debate and that you accept the amendments that we will defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u237	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u238	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, Madam Chair of the Special Commission, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, if the PACTE bill that we are going to discuss together were up to the ambitions that it sets out, it would make much more of it. If France were to have the means to truly adapt the company to the challenges of the 21st century, that would be clear. The whole world would look at her, as he looks at her every time she holds her rank. For France is looked at throughout the world, and what it decides is everywhere meditated. His people have all the resources and know-how necessary to be the locomotive that will make us bifurcate on a new track; We can imagine a great paradigm shift to share. Of course, unfortunately, this is not a question of this. I think I can say that the PACTE bill is missing a considerable opportunity, which I sincerely and deeply regret. Before I say precisely why, I should like to pay tribute to the good conduct of our debates in the special committee, to the work of its chairman and its rapporteur-general, so, Mr Minister, I must say, that the quality of our discussions. It has to be said that until you end up impatiently or lacking arguments – I leave everyone free of his or her appreciation – you have shown great readiness for the confrontation of ideas, always useful to the understanding of the issues at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u239	You see, Minister, you have commonalities with Mr. Quatennens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u240	I hope the same will happen here in the sitting. This quality of exchange, Minister, suggests to me that, unlike the President of the Republic, you cannot believe that it is enough to cross the street to find a job today in our country. You cannot believe this, because, unlike the President of the Republic, you must know that there is, on average, an unfilled job in our country for forty unemployed people, that 85% of new contracts are short contracts, that 86% of unemployed people controlled by Pôle emploi are in active search of work, that Pôle emploi is, to the great regret of its agents, more the place where we check that research is much more frantic than that where we really offer employment, and that the employment situation in our country is a situation of shortage. A President of the Republic should not speak that way. As a minister, never forbid you to teach him the lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u241	Be like Gérard Collomb!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u242	The purpose of the PACTE bill is, nothing less, to adapt the company to the challenges of the 21st century. Well, I think it is precisely in the determination of these issues that our main disagreement lies, which, of course, conditions the rest of our discussion. In a world where the richest 1 per cent of the wealth produced is taken over 82 per cent, in a France where the richest 10 per cent hold more than half of the wealth, while the poorest 50 per cent share only 5 per cent of the cake, in a France world champion of dividends paid to shareholders – who have increased by 200 per cent in 20 years while the average wage was only 14.5 per cent – one of the challenges of the twenty-first century seems to us to be the sharing of wealth. Unfortunately, however, your bill does not contain anything consistent in this regard. You are happy to offend yourself on the television sets of excesses that kill "cohesion in our nation as well as in companies", to use your words, minister, but what are you doing in practice against these excesses? You demand transparency: has it ever prevented action? Let us take the examples of hat retreats or gilded parachutes: has transparency prevented those who have it from continuing to benefit from it? Of course not. If cohesion in our nation as well as in companies dies, we think it is as you do, because of these excesses, why not accept our proposal to fix the maximum wage gap in the company from 1 to 20? We defended this proposal, coming from the European Confederation of Trade Unions, during the presidential campaign. Perhaps it is still necessary to remind this forum that this is not a confiscatory measure, because it is not a question of depriving the leaders of their remuneration, but of demanding, if they wish to maintain it, that they increase all the other wages. This would revive purchasing power in a way you can imagine! Yes, we believe that it is not acceptable for this wage gap in some companies to reach a ratio of 1 to 300, the average being 1 to 257 in CAC 40 companies. We believe, Minister, that transparency will not suffice to put an end to these excesses that you rightly criticize. We also think that some bosses, I said "some", are too expensive and live beyond our means; We do not believe that greed is the mark of talent, including in the company. We are convinced that there are many entrepreneurs and bosses available, far more talented than the current ones and which would cost us much less. In a world of finite resources where climate change is not only begun but advanced, where the sixth extinction is under way and where ecological debt is growing ever more every year, the main challenge of the twenty-first century, when the conditions of human life on earth are called into question, is the observance of the green rule. This green rule, Minister, would not make France the champion of an ecology that you would see as punitive and that you would describe. No! It would set the whole of society a challenge as exciting as it is tragic: not to take to the ground more than it can restore in a year and not to dump more waste than it can accept. It would therefore be a matter of rethinking and completely reorganizing our production, distribution and consumption model. This would require the highest qualifications: engineers, technicians, employees, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u243	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u244	It is the whole society that would have to move and organize itself to meet a challenge that puts us all at the foot of the wall, whether we agree or disagree. At this time, Mr. Minister, we should call on the French to rise every morning to work in order to participate in this great challenge, to organize the technical and material conditions for the survival of the species, to verify the social utility and ecological sustainability of all production, and to question the profound meaning of all that we do and how we do it. Instead, you propose to the French to rise every morning to produce things that are always cheaper, under the conditions we know and without worrying about the ends; Under a purely ideological injunction, you organize competition, this great competition without meaning and using the land and men. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] Minister, in the face of the climate challenge, which calls into question the very possibility of human life on Earth, what is the value of free and undistorted competition, competition and the fiscal golden rule? I'm asking you. Stand by and say: on the Titanic in the midst of a shipwreck, it is unlikely that the passengers would have cared if they had closed their garage door. However, that is what you are doing, taking no account of the diagnosis we are making, or even of its validation by the resignation of Nicolas Hulot, according to which neither budgetary constraints nor economic liberalism are compatible with what should be done to meet the climate challenges. Thus, the PACTE bill does not adapt the company to the challenges of the 21st century, because it is written in the old dead language of liberalism to break everything that the Government is trying to speak. This inevitably results in a small – but far-reaching – law of further liberalization and financialization of the economy, with real social setbacks and announced progress that is only illusory. Nothing about well-being at work, despite the explosion of burn-out cases! No sharing of real power among employees! Nothing about the precarisation of work, stock options, wage regulation, redundancies or delays in payment by large groups! With the PACTE law, you blow up restrictions on the opening of the capital of several companies, including Aéroports de Paris, la Française des jeux and Engie. We do not see how the privatisation of our airports – in a monopoly situation –, that of the French gaming company – a profitable company – or that of Engie – a strategic undertaking to carry out the ecological transition – adapts the company a bit to the challenges of the 21st century. On the contrary, we believe that the best guarantee for the state would be to keep these companies and use the dividends to invest – why not? – innovation, instead of making it an argument to justify these privatisations. With the PACTE Act, you change the social thresholds, defined by levels of workforce beyond which certain rules apply to businesses. You intend to reduce the number, so – let's say frankly – employees' rights. From this point of view, your CAPTE law is the direct follow-up to Minister Pénicaud's Labour Orders, with the picturesque results on employment and the labour market that we now know. With the PACTE Act, tens of thousands of employees will see their rights reduced considerably. How often will it be necessary to repeat that there is no correlation between the content of employees' rights and the level of employment in our country? How many times will it be necessary to repeat to you that this is indeed the level of order books, which you prevent from increasing due to lack of public investment – which you refuse – and of purchasing power – which you weaken – which dictates the activity of our country? Your bill is further proof that you are giving up making the choice – expected by our companies – of reviving activity, especially through popular consumption. Minister, no one can believe that a company with certain economic opportunities and well-filled order books would refrain from increasing on the grounds that it should establish a by-law. No one can believe that a company with certain economic opportunities and well-filled order books would give up on the grounds that it should provide its employees with a place for lunch. It's not serious! The PACTE law presents wage savings as a mode of participation and revalorisation of employees, whereas in reality it is an additional social niche and a means of avoiding wage increases. According to Bercy, the result will be €440 million less revenue in the immediate future, and more so in the future, as companies will be encouraged to use this type of mechanism. The CAPTE law aims to develop funded retirement through a tax reduction: under the guise of promoting economic financing products, the development of retirement savings aims to prepare for future pension reform; We know that one of the avenues envisaged is to allow the highest incomes to move out of the system by distribution in favour of a funded system. Our pension system, based on intergenerational solidarity, is your next target. We're waiting for you at the turn. Minister, you highlight three measures, which in your opinion would constitute the major advance of the PACTE law: the modification of the company's social object, the possibility for companies to indicate in their statutes a "raison d'être" distinct from the profit and the switch to two directors on the boards of directors of at least eight people – no longer twelve – in companies with more than 1000 employees. But these three measures are powder in the eyes, because they do not change the vocation of the company – to make profit – nor the sharing of power within it. The change in the social purpose of companies does not impose new obligations on them and simply takes into account current case law. The precision of a company's "raison d'être" is optional, making it a marketing tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u245	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u246	As for the employee administrator, you always seem to consider him a luxury and a danger. Obviously, you are afraid of the place of employees in the company! You know, however, that France is far below the practices in our European partners. You who are always willing to take Germany as a model, do not do it with variable geometry; Do so also with regard to employee involvement in works councils and boards of directors. In Germany, as you know, employee representatives make up half of the workforce. In addition, your text continues the general movement towards increased deregulation and financialization of the economy. Therefore, throughout the review of the bill, we will again make many proposals. Here are some of them: to extend to all companies the obligation to adopt an enterprise plan or agreement against inequalities in wages and careers between women and men; ensure that the interests of subcontractors and their employees are taken into account in the management of the giving undertaking; separate investment and retail banking activities; include in the law a maximum annual threshold of bank charges; prohibit shareholders' meetings from paying dividends in excess of the net profit of the previous year; introduce a limit on the use of precarious contracts in order to redo the CDI – now the exception – the rule. We would also like to see debate, for example, on the modulation of voting rights on the boards of directors of companies according to the duration for which shareholders decide to invest. Those who invest in the long term must have more rights than those who invest in the very short term and are therefore not interested in the sustainability of the business. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In short, as usual, we will be at the rendezvous that you are setting us, Minister, with regret to have to see that you are still putting our country behind us at the rendezvous of history!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u247	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u248	[[The sitting was suspended at 17.05 p.m. and resumed at 18.05 p.m. with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u249	The meeting was resumed. Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the ambition and strategic interest of the bill before us, which will free companies from the obstacles that hinder them, from the stage of creation to the stage of the end of activity. The MODEM Group welcomes the adoption in committee, on its initiative, of Rule 22a. By lifting the holding condition by at least 5% of the capital, this article simplifies the current account contributions of a partner, thus encouraging young professionals who integrate the pool of a company to become involved in the life of the company. The extension of crowdfunding to companies whose corporate name includes social or environmental objectives is also a positive step forward. We want to go further by opening up the financing of solidarity companies to institutional investors through retirement savings. The extension of the exceptions to the monopoly principle of bank credit, adopted in committee, including loans from commercial companies, will be accompanied by an inverted factoring of a collaborative type. Our colleague Patrick Mignola has tabled an amendment along these lines. This will improve payment deadlines, which today account for 25% of business failures, representing a potential leverage of EUR 12 to 14 billion. Similarly, Article 63a, also inserted in the text following the adoption of an amendment to MODEM, will improve the ability of SMEs to access public works contracts under fair conditions, putting an end to a problematic situation. While this text will undoubtedly contribute to changing attitudes and democratizing entrepreneurship, it does require further legislative work. The number of appeal amendments tabled by my group reflects the need for simplification that remains, particularly for SMEs. That is why, individually and collectively, we will propose a number of amendments aimed at further removing the obstacles mentioned. In terms of simplification, first of all, it would be appropriate to shorten the deadlines for starting a business. We propose to allow the deposit of the statutes by any act which has acquired a certain date and under the supervision of a profession empowered to carry out the necessary checks to confer the capacity to act on an undertaking, in the same way as registration in the register of commerce and companies. Thus, the company would gain legal personality much faster. At a digital time, it would be logical to exempt from legal publishing obligations current transactions related to the life of companies, which are already published on an information medium linked to the Registry of the Commercial Court. Because any business start-up requires accounting and management skills, we propose that a multi-choice questionnaire can be completed online by the entrepreneur when registering his business, in order to make him responsible for the need to take a training course to support business start-up. The decree implementing article 3 shall take into account the commitments made in this regard in a special commission. I also note that Article 9 aligns public limited companies and limited partnerships with other companies for which the use of an auditor is already optional. However, the reduction in the use of auditors should not be seen as an exemption from rigour or follow-up by contractors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u252	It is essential to develop a culture of advice in France so that entrepreneurs, as is the case with our Anglo-Saxon neighbours, take the habit of consulting with the legal and accounting professions. A government communication to encourage these good consultation practices would be a good way to accompany the reform. We will also propose a simplified winding-up procedure based on the possibility of simultaneously taking the two acts of dissolution-liquidation of a company, which are now the subject of individual payments and deadlines, if this is not the subject of liquidation operations. I hope, Minister, that your attention will be drawn to the amendments we have tabled to that effect. One question remains with regard to article 16, which provides for an authorization to reform security rights law, which must take into account all proposals from both academics and practitioners, with a view to complementing and adjusting the orderly reform of 2006. I would like to know what measures the Government intends to take. Are you considering, Minister, including in your reform certain mechanisms – delegation of debt, promise of a stronghold, compensation – which, without being described as security rights, are also intended to guarantee the recovery of the debt? Article 19 will facilitate the resumption of the enterprise in the process of reorganization or judicial liquidation. From now on, the reverse guarantee clauses, imposing solidarity on the buyer with the former tenant, will be deemed unwritten. This is a good thing, because these reverse guarantee clauses are a real obstacle to the recovery of firms in difficulty, for which a divestment plan has been drawn up, even though this recovery is often the only possibility to maintain the business. In the same spirit, Minister, I would suggest that you simplify the conditions for inter-firm lending, by removing the two-year time limit that limits the duration of the loan today, even if this time limit has been extended to three years in committee. The idea is that these loans are possible regardless of the form of the company, whether the company has an auditor or not. As such, I have improved the drafting of my amendment to distinguish these two possibilities. Share rental, created in 2005, is a very interesting tool. It deserves to be improved by removing an administrative constraint which, today, hinders the use of this procedure. We will therefore propose to open the rental of shares to legal persons held mainly by one or more natural persons, whereas the latter is currently limited to natural persons. Because the company needs to be enriched by scientific discoveries, it seems to us that we need to go further than the present text, allowing researchers to manage and direct companies developing their inventions. In return, an opportunity would be opened for the university to which these researchers are attached to benefit from a percentage of the benefit achieved, which would constitute innovative funding for French research. The current wording of the article seems to me to be too rigid in this respect. Finally, we will propose amendments to Articles 47 and 48 concerning the privatisation of airports, in order to allow local authorities to enter the capital of ADP and to take part in the governance of an operator who, by virtue of his exclusive right over the public airport service in Île-de-France, plays an essential role in the attractiveness and economic and tourist development of Île-de-France. We are committed to the defence of the world of associations and we hope that this privatisation, through an increase in fees, will not harm the aeroclubs, which constitute in our country the crucible of the aeronautics industry and the pool for the recruitment of future pilots. Unfortunately, this has already been the case in previous privatisations in Nantes or Lyon. We will therefore propose that the law clarify this protection, which is justified by the public utility mission granted to the aeroclubs and which the minister and the rapporteur welcomed the need in committee. In conclusion, the importance of this bill is not limited to the number of its articles, the fifty-three hours of committee review it has requested or those it will still require in this House. Even if it is not perfect, this text is part of a historical perspective, that of adapting our vision of the company to our time. We must do so with determination and vigilance. By simplifying business creation, removing obstacles to growth, giving them increased capacity to innovate, we are committed to a determined economic transformation in our country, serving both employees and entrepreneurs. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In this goldsmith's work, the MODEM Group will be at the side of the Government to defend this text while improving it on the points that still require it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u253	Mr Adrien Taquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u254	Mr President, Mr President, Madam President of the Special Committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan for the growth and transformation of companies, which we are now starting to examine in open session, is not today. Launched almost a year ago, on 23 October 2017, it gave rise to a wide-ranging citizen consultation, led by binomies bringing together elected representatives and members of civil society. This bill is based primarily on a method: starting from the expectations of economic actors and society, and working with them. This text is therefore the result of several months of consultations with all economic and social actors – entrepreneurs, trade union organisations, regions, professional organisations, non-governmental organisations. It is with respect for this democratic dialogue, which has prevailed so far, that the La République en marche group participated in the debates in committee, and that it will participate in the consideration of this bill. The PACTE bill is then part of a philosophy: building a responsible market economy, based on the right balance between economic performance and social guarantees, on the right measure between creation and value-sharing, between economic recovery and justice. As the President of the Republic recalled in his last speech before the Congress: "It is a lie to defend employees if we do not defend companies. And it's impossible to pretend to distribute if we don't produce enough. » Building a successful economy means ensuring that the various economic agents – the state, companies, their shareholders, employees – perform their functions harmoniously and responsibly. In this regard, the PACTE bill seeks to redefine and clarify the role of each individual. This bill first makes the state a strategist state, which, rather than simply managing several assets, invests in the future through the break-up innovation fund, and does not hesitate to defend our country's strategic companies against certain foreign investments that may prove aggressive. This bill then proposes a renewed vision of the company: it would be a human collective, which takes into account the social and environmental consequences of its action, and shares the value created among all those who contribute to it. Finally, this bill encourages citizens, as full-fledged economic actors, to focus their savings more on productive investment in order to help our SMEs develop and create jobs. After a method and a philosophy, the PACTE bill finally proposes an ambition: to enable small businesses to grow, innovate, invest and create jobs. From this point of view, the text addresses a structural deficiency of the French economy: the weakness of the fabric of mid-sized companies – ETI. Even though our country has a large number of entrepreneurs, with 140,000 SMEs, there is a serious shortage of mid-sized companies: 5800 compared to 12,500 in Germany. However, the latter are vital to our economy since they are the first source of jobs: between 2009 and 2015, 300,000 net jobs were created by the ETIs in France. The bill therefore seeks to remove the obstacles to the development of our SMEs, from their creation to their transmission, and to facilitate their access to finance and to the protection of innovation. Building on this shared ambition, the parliamentary group The Republic on the move intends to continue the transformation effort undertaken by this bill. The amendments put forward by our group have therefore been structured around a threefold transformation: the transformation of the lives of entrepreneurs and small businesses first, the transformation of the place of employees in the company then, the transformation of the role of enterprises in society finally. The LaREM group initially focused on continuing to transform the lives of business starters, which is at the heart of the PACTE bill. Indeed, it makes a considerable simplification of the procedures that affect entrepreneurs at all stages of business life: from the very beginning, with the establishment of an electronic single window; to support their growth, with the reduction and simplification of staff thresholds; and finally, if they had to stop their activity, with the improvement of the conditions for personal recovery and the development of the simplified liquidation procedure. But making business life easier is not only a matter of administrative simplification, but also a matter of providing entrepreneurs with real human support. In this respect, some Members of the majority had the opportunity to recall, during the examination in committee, the importance of accompaniment to improve the chances of success of entrepreneurs. It is in order to meet this requirement that our group wanted to provide entrepreneurs with assistance in their efforts at the newly created one-stop shop. It is also in this sense that our group wanted professionals applying for the first time for registration of a craft or commercial enterprise to be offered training courses in management. Facilitating the lives of small businesses also means empowering them to innovate by simplifying access to finance. But the savings of the French today do not finance enough the investment and growth of our companies: only 11% of the savings are allocated in equity to companies. It is in order to remedy this deficiency that our group has adopted in special committee a series of measures designed to promote the development of PEA-SME, the aim of which is to finance SMEs and ITEs in own funds. The disintermediation of the PEA-SME will increase the spread of this product to investors, and the increase in its ceiling, which must be in line with that of the PEA, will mechanically increase the volume of these PEA-SME. Access to borrowing is now particularly difficult for entrepreneurs with disabilities or with an aggravated health risk, who are often unwarrantedly attributed overprime because of the uncertainty about their health status. In order to avoid any discrimination and to promote the employment of people with disabilities through entrepreneurship, we wish to open the debate in this forum. If it facilitates the lives of businesses, this bill also proposes a renewed vision of the company and, consequently, of the place of employees within it. Now understood as a human collective that is not the property of its sole shareholders, the 21st century enterprise is intended to involve its employees both in the decisions and in the redistribution of the value created. It is this second axis of transformation that the working Republic group sought to deepen during the examination in a special commission, which it will continue in session. Sharing the objective of a fairer sharing of the value created in the company, for which the removal of the social package is a powerful incentive, our group wanted to develop the practice of self-interest, which led us to adopt an amendment creating project interest. With a view to a fairer sharing of value, our group then wants the distribution of participation to be more egalitarian. While General de Gaulle had conceived participation as a popular instrument for redistributing the value created in the company, 58% of the participation paid in enterprises is now captured by the 10% of the highest wages, i.e. ten points more in ten years. That is why, in order to return to the original spirit of this scheme, we will propose that the annual social security ceiling be reduced to three times the amount of the annual wage taken into account in the calculation of the distribution of participation. Our group also wanted to strengthen the position of employees in the decision-making process, on the one hand by expanding the system of employees' directors and on the other hand by strengthening their training – the minimum number of hours of training has been increased to forty – in order to empower them to perform their duties fully. It is a question of making this right, not a formal right but a real right for employees. Finally, the LaREM Group fully endorsed the aim of this text to renew the company's place in society. Driven by the conviction that the social interest of a company is not limited to the interests of its associates alone, our group has wanted, through the creation of the status of the company on mission, to empower companies that wish to do so to engage more strongly in social or environmental projects. This new status, which will translate into a legal commitment of the company on a clearly defined mission, enshrined in its statutes, and which will be accompanied by mechanisms to ensure its compliance, will guarantee to both social investors and employees a true stability of the commitments made. Beyond the social and environmental consequences of their actions, the members of the group wanted to value virtuous companies with regard to the inclusion of people with disabilities. This is the meaning of creating a label certifying the implementation of a policy of universal accessibility for people living with disabilities. Finally, giving a new place to the company in our society means promoting the development of the social and solidarity economy. This is what we have done by adopting various mechanisms to direct French savings more towards companies in this sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] Transformation of the life of companies, the place of employees in the company, the role of the company in society: this action plan for the transformation of companies does not serve the interests of a few, but meets an ambition of global modernisation of our economy. After the so-called "work" orders, the 2018 finance bill, and the freedom to choose your professional future, this CAPTE bill is now the fourth component of the transformation and modernization of our country. It is this profound transformation of our economy that will allow us to enjoy new prosperity for the benefit of the greatest number of people. It is the pursuit of this dual objective which has led the majority in the Special Committee and which will continue to do so in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u255	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u256	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, Madam Chair of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the PACTE bill was introduced in Council of Ministers on June 18. The title – draft law on business growth and transformation; the date – June 18, how not to be sensitive; the method, recalled by all those who preceded me – nine months of consultation; ambition – "to reconnect with the spirit of economic conquest" and "to adapt the French business model to the realities of the 21st century", in the words of the minister: everything suggested that we would have to look at a great text, which would at last mark a real break in our economic model. Unfortunately, this is not the case. As with many laws proposed by the majority for the past year and a half, hope has given way to real disappointment. The PACTE law is first and foremost a tote law. I know you don't like her being qualified that way, but that's the case. This impression was accentuated when the Government introduced, by amendment, and thus without impact assessment, on Friday, the last day of the special committee discussion, at midnight forty, the end of the regulated gas and electricity tariff for the electrosensitive sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u257	It's not midnight for forty-five?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u258	Anyway, it was really late. Introducing such an evolution in this way is not a good method. Above all, what does this amendment do in this text? This is proof that it is a tote law. The PACTE Act is also a new simplification law. Neither the first nor the last... Like any law of this nature, it contains advances that we approve – hence this morning's rostrum, Minister. These advances were widely mentioned by the majority. I will therefore not go back to that, except to regret that, at the same time as you propose simplifications, you are imposing the levy at source, which will considerably complicate the task of the small businesses that you intend to support with your law. There is a certain contradiction here. There are also significant gaps in the simplification component. How can we seriously say that this text must bring the French economy into the new century when it completely ignores the digital economy? Nothing or almost anything about artificial intelligence – the autonomous vehicle is a little short; nothing or almost anything on the blockchain; Nothing or almost anything about cryptocurrency; Nothing or almost anything on the platforms. You seem to have missed the essentials, Minister, with regard to a text that was to bring us into the new century and probably into the new world. In this too narrow field that you have chosen, the bill is also insufficient and incomplete on several points: weak measures in terms of company transmission and export support; brutality of measures directed against the auditors; nothing or almost nothing to put order in the too many legal statutes proposed to entrepreneurs; nothing about subcontracting; Nothing about regulated savings; nothing about the possibility of releasing all or part of the participation or interest; nothing especially about improving the margins of companies. Moreover, the question of the burden of taxation was quickly removed, as the amendments, which came from all the benches, were pushed back quite cavalierly to the finance bill, in a part that we are told will be reserved for the PACTE bill. We know why. We know above all that nothing will happen in the PLF for 2019, for lack of a real policy of savings to put an end to the wastage of public money in our country. On the contrary, you have companies finance the measures in their favour – removing the thresholds and the social package. In short, you give business gifts with their money: it's a little easy. Imagine that I propose to each one to give him a gift with the money he will give me to pay him... Admit that this is a funny way to send a positive message to companies! The PACTE bill disappoints because of what it does not contain, but unfortunately also because of what it contains. Simplification of the thresholds and removal of the social package undoubtedly deserve approval, but you are not going far enough, as was said before me. Of course, you remove the threshold of 20 employees, but you leave two others intact, that for the TPEs of 11 employees and that for the SMEs of 50, which are regularly denounced on the ground by these companies. Above all, you do not change the thresholds set out in the Labour Code. In total, the French landscape remains very complicated. The work was done, but only half. That is a shame, but you can still make up for it, Minister, by retaining the amendments proposed by the Republicans. With regard to the social package, it is the same: not only is the package not removed for all companies, but only its abolition will not be enough to develop interest and participation, while the figures show that the share of profits paid to employees has been declining in our country for more than 20 years. Hell is paved with good intentions. This is still true with your business start-up proposals. While France has a system that can be improved but that works well, you will dismantle it, creating insecurity for business starters and, most certainly, additional costs. The aim here is to abolish the business formalities centres and pre-installation internships, which are feared on the ground. Unfortunately, legal uncertainty will not only affect business start-ups. In tripatouillant – I did not find any other word because, unfortunately, it is the right one – the provisions of the Civil Code and the Commercial Code on the social object, in particular by an amendment from the LaREM Group introduced at the last minute, you open the way to an important dispute on the consideration of social and environmental issues, whose consequences you unfortunately do not measure. Another point of fragility and incomprehension: the assembly that you imagined around the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. Why want to change its governance, if not to strengthen Bercy's hold at the expense of Parliament? Fortunately, the reactions of parliamentarians on all the benches seem to push you back on this point, and I can only congratulate myself on this. In addition, did you properly measure the consequences of the rapprochement with La Poste – and, therefore, La Banque postale – and CNP Assurances? Are you aware that you are taking the risk, too common to the Caisse des dépôts, of making it lose its derogatory status, particularly under European law, and of bringing it into the common law of banking institutions? We can make the same remark about Aéroports de Paris and La Française des jeux. Why get rid of infrastructure as essential as airports, more so those in Paris, international platforms and main points of entry into our territory, while no airports have been privatized in the United States and the international organisation that brings together all airlines again recommended last June in Sydney not to privatize airports? And regarding La Française des jeux, what guarantees do you have that France will be able to keep this monopoly in the hands of the operator it has chosen? And all this for what? A fund of 10 billion euros, of course, but which will only generate 250 million a year! Who can seriously think that tomorrow, under these conditions, we can finance breaking innovation in France? Last point before concluding: the protection of our strategic interests. What credit is given in this respect to the person who, when he was Minister of Economy, braided and dropped Alstom, one of our industrial flagships? What credit should be given to a piece of legislation which promises better sanctions in the event of non-application of conditions which, as we know, are almost never laid down, even though they should have been clarified and reinforced in this text? At the end of our debates in the special committee, Madam President, you have given statistics: more than 2000 amendments studied for fifty hours of discussion. I would like to take this opportunity to complete this painting. First of all, I regret that the special committee review took place at the same time as that of Bill Egalim in the House for a new reading, when many of us followed the debate on the bill at first reading. I protest about these working conditions. The special committee has gone well and you have chaired it perfectly, Madam President – I joined the congratulations that have been addressed to you – but acknowledge that we have had to look at this text at the heart of the summer and that, during part of the work, we have to be present at the same time in the Chamber and in the special committee. As a result, a number of our colleagues were deprived of special committees because they had favoured the Egalim text, and vice versa for the others. These were not good working conditions. Secondly, I note that, in the course of fifty hours, only five amendments – and again, I have amendments of pure form – by the Republicans have been voted by the majority, which has dealt with the most critical provisions of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u259	We'll have to do better, Mr. Fasquelle!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u260	It's just the beginning, Mr. Fasquelle!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u261	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all have the opportunity, together in the Chamber, to finally give the PACTE bill the content it deserves, content that is consistent with the ambition that has been set out. I am full of good will, and I hope that the Minister will be happy to review this text by saying that its content really corresponds to the speech he has made and the ambitions he has put forward. To do this, we expect the majority to finally be constructive – it is not just the opposition of being –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u262	It is the Republicans who are not constructive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... and listening, in particular, to the Group of the Republicans, so that, thanks to our proposals, we would finally have a real text of rupture, which would listen to French companies and make them enter the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u264	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u265	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, rapporteurs, dear and dear colleagues, the action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises sets out the ambition, you said, "to embark on a new time in the economic transformation of our country", "to remove obstacles to the growth of enterprises" and "to place them at the centre of society". Let us not be mistaken: behind these hollow formulas, like dry shovels, it is not a question of contributing to the democratic transformation of companies in order to make them socially and environmentally more responsible. However, you have said, Minister, that the company can no longer be the only place where profits can be made. Great effort on yourself! Words are soft... but where are the acts? Your text has a philosophy, we told you. You have not always explained it as it goes without saying; We know it because it is always the same: freeing the forces of money from what hinders their power. Your project is in three words: privatization, deregulation, deregulation – and that rhymes with regression. The quest for profits remains your compass and this government is working to do the same levers as its predecessors by organizing public impotence. You're making a serious misdiagnosis. As if the law was the cause of the explosion of unemployment, inequalities, precariousness or even malwork! So, by removing the rules, we would better address the immense social and environmental challenges facing our country, Europe and the world? These policies have never produced any positive results! They have only helped to throw millions of our fellow citizens into the anguish of the next day. First, your bill organizes public impotence. The Government is extending today the work started by Emmanuel Macron under the previous legislature with the privatisation of the airports of Nice, Toulouse and Lyon – there is still some continuity in all this. This time, it is planned to remove the legal constraints which oblige the State to hold the majority of the shares of Paris Airports. However, the airports concerned constitute strategic equipment and are obviously intended to be under full public control. At a time when we can cross Europe or the Mediterranean for 19 euros without worrying about the way the real price of the trip is paid, and the day after the payment, in 2015, of more than 129 million euros of dividends by ADP to its shareholders, an increasing figure, this decision is, for us, not only an economic but also an environmental nonsense, in a context of growth in air traffic. This will also not be without consequences for Air France, whose national hub consists of the Paris airports. The wave of privatizations of major global airports is a cause for concern, so much so that it has given rise to an official warning from the association of international airlines, although little suspected of economic anti-liberalism. The disengagement of the state of La Française from games is a blow to the necessary republican regulation of gambling, with weak precautions in the face of the amplification of the pathological consequences of addiction to games. The opening of its capital will result in a 50% reduction in the State's shareholding, thereby reducing the dividends received – 90 million euros per year at present. This is a scandal of the same acabit as the privatisation of motorways. At the time of the ecological transition, you also remove the requirement for the state to hold more than 30% of the capital of GDF-Suez and you open the capital of GRTgaz. You will encourage the group to freeze wages, destroy jobs and relocate, to the detriment of the sustainability, quality and security of the service rendered, of the public service. In fact, Minister, you sell the assets to fill the hole you dug yourself by removing the property tax. On the contrary, we should give ourselves effective levers to intervene, but you would prefer once again to rely on the proven blindness of the greedy market, by serving the dividend hunters and triumphant capitalism, which the rapporteur-general told us earlier. This story, I have some ideas of titles to give him: The story with an end? Yes-Yes and the extraordinary garage? Tintin and the nice capitalism?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u266	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u267	Don't you have anything with Martine?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u268	For us, as you will have understood, capitalism is an unjust and predatory system. As far as La Poste is concerned, you are now boasting the merits of a public financial centre, whereas for the time being it is only a DIY. While it was announced in 2010 that La Poste would remain owned by the State, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations will become its majority shareholder. The management bodies of La Poste will be reformed to bring them closer to what is provided for in the common company law. Similarly, the Postal Bank will become, instead of the CDC, the main shareholder of the National Provident Fund. It is a matter of basing itself on the private banking model, but with what ambition of general interest? The key to these changes is another provision of the PACTE Act: the CDC's subjection to the supervision of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, which will bring the CDC into the common system of commercial banks. The new entity, with its 1000 billion balance sheet, risks going under the direct control of the European Central Bank, like other European banking groups known as "systemic". Is it a question of challenging the dictatorship of financial markets on the economy, of putting pressure on ordinary banks to stop financing public purchasing offers, leveraged purchases or investments in tax havens, and of granting loans to investments that promote employment, training, wealth creation in the territories, ecology? No, of course not. In fact, we are shuddering at the danger of these institutions, which are responsible for managing popular savings and local banking services in the territories, and which play a strategic role in the financing of local authorities, housing, SMEs, transport and communication infrastructures. How will the CDC's public service missions be respected? How will the object of Book A, the foundation of popular savings, be respected, knowing that this investment is now losing money to millions of French and French people? You are considering the restructuring of public financial institutions without calling into question the domination of financial markets. Second, it is a deregulation bill. The thresholds will now have to be exceeded five consecutive calendar years in order for the obligations related to these thresholds to apply, including the installation of staff representative institutions. The text aims to remove the ceiling of 20 employees in order to benefit from a simplified scheme for the declaration and recovery of social contributions and contributions, which will affect the financing of the housing allowance. The company will have to reach 50 employees in order to make it compulsory to draw up internal rules. You intend to raise from 200 to 250 employees the threshold at which the employer has the obligation to make a trade union premises available to organisations. Currently, each shareholder can know the total remuneration paid to the top five employees if the company has fewer than 200 employees and the top ten employees if the company has more than 200 employees. The bill also provides for raising this threshold to 250. These measures reflect an obsession, Minister: to respond as little as possible to public and social demands and to be less accountable tomorrow than today. They are as dangerous as they are inefficient. In a 2011 study, INSEE strongly related the impact of the removal of thresholds on business size and job creation. In addition, a survey carried out some time ago in Italy following similar measures showed that they had not led to job creation. This reform will undoubtedly lead, on the other hand, to a reduction of social rights for workers in small businesses, which will increase inequalities. This is a dangerous vision, which leads to sacrificing the rights of employees in the name of so-called economic efficiency. If you still believe it, you're on hypnosis! During the previous legislature, Emmanuel Macron had tried to pave the way for the abolition of the qualification requirement for certain craft activities, with the stated desire to draw many trades down. In order to stimulate individual entrepreneurship, the Government is proposing, this time, to abolish the pre-installation training course – SPI – as if the management of a company could be improvised. However, the survival rate of three-year-olds is 75% when their creators took management courses, compared with 50% when they did not take these courses. In addition, the SPI aims to protect not only the young entrepreneur, but also its customers, suppliers and all other partners. On the contrary, we propose that this course be reinforced by modules on banking law, company law in difficulty or corporate social responsibility. Similarly, you would like to raise the turnover threshold to 10000 euros from which self-employed workers, now referred to as "individual entrepreneurs", have the obligation to have a bank account dedicated to professional activity. You will thus organize confusion, in disregard of any basic rule of transparency and prudence. You must add to this your attack on the consular chambers, their financing, their establishment and their missions, while they provide valuable support to SMEs, whose requests are more about access to credit or a fairer tax in the face of multinationals. In the name of profitability, the Government raises the thresholds at which a company is subject to the obligation to appoint an auditor. However, the current French thresholds are much lower than those laid down in European legislation and vary according to the legal nature of the entities and their membership or not. While the Government, according to the opinion of the General Inspectorate of Finance of March 2018, considers that the certification of small business accounts has little beneficial effect and can therefore easily be eliminated, the feedback in Sweden and Italy, countries that have returned at thresholds below those in France, calls for caution: increased risks of abuse of social property, tax fraud, black-out work, money laundering and others, and risks weakening small businesses in the face of banks and their financing products. According to the Compagnie nationale des comptes, the withdrawal of the audit network at the level of European thresholds would leave 345 billion euros of turnover unchecked. In fact, you are going to make trade less secure and risk undermining the sincerity of relationships as well as the health of a whole part of the economy. No, for us, leaking forward, detricating or dumping is not the solution. In the face of the capitalist globalization that you mentioned in your keynote address, Minister, on the contrary, we must pursue an ambition of social and ecological progress, respect the rules of the International Labour Organization, consider the commitments of the summits for the planet to be indispensable. And then, where is the development of our industries in your proposals, and in your actions? We know, for example, that we are under-production of steel, with a public impotence which unfortunately manifests itself far too often. And this public impotence is found in the case of the company GM&amp;S, in the Creuse, victim of several of its principals, or in the case of developing the circular economy where it would be possible, or in other innovative projects, such as that of an aeronautical pole in my territory, in the city of Istres. On the contrary, we must resist the consumerist and productivist logics that allow large multinationals to inundate the global market regardless of the social and environmental cost to be paid. You will not succeed by a petition of principle. I would add to all this, always in the order of deregulation, the measures that you have introduced night-and-night on regulated gas and electricity tariffs. You propose to harmonise the legal regimes of the various pension savings products, including PERCO, and to introduce a reduced social benefit rate on employer payments in collective insurance products. This reduction is damaging because it deprives social security of useful resources, particularly for the old age sector. As a result, the reform of pension savings will be carried out indirectly at the expense of the funding of the distributed pension system. Moreover, this reform does not say a word about solidarity savings products whose aim is to finance projects of social and ecological interest, which the actors of the social and solidarity economy regret. In the same spirit, you remove the social package on payments relating to wage savings, on abundances for companies with less than 50 employees as well as for companies with less than 250 employees who have an interest agreement or conclude one. It should be recalled here that wage savings are complementary to wages, which they are not intended to replace. By abolishing the social package, you are helping to promote the development of wage savings at the expense of salary increases. In the GDR Group, we reject this measure, which will constitute in its application an instrument of avoidance of wages and a new social niche, while the amount of the exemptions from social contributions already amounts to 46 billion euros per year. There has been much talk in some of the previous speakers of the company as a common good, a human collective. But we need more audacity for it to really become so! The abolition of class struggle, a laudable objective, is not decreed: it involves questioning the power of the owners. With this bill, the aim is to keep the state back so that the market can occupy the space thus discovered at the expense of the social needs and the profound changes involved in the environmental challenge. Immediate overall cost of your measures: EUR 1.1 billion. A beautiful action braced by this, a beautiful exemption there, a suppression of rights here, a less trade union freedom there... We understand that this text amazes you: it's the strennes! The PACTE law is in fact only a large toy box where you have put all the liberal toys forgotten at Christmas, a beautiful kit for apprentices sorcerers of finance. We have a number of proposals which we will make and which I have already outlined in this intervention: the framework of remuneration in the company, a right of preemption and new powers for employees in management, a change in the provisions concerning relations between the principals and subcontractors, the prohibition of LBOs – lever purchases – for example. [[Applause on the benches of theFI and Socialist and related groups]] To this project, which in turn ventures, without nuances, in the path without the outcome of a splintered liberalism, we therefore intend to oppose the ambition of the human first. Unlike others, and in view of all that I have just said, I miss the desire, to conclude, to summon the poets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u270	It was weighted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u271	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u272	Mr President, Mr Minister, the chairman of the special committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was born out of an implacable observation: in the context of a globalised economy, our country does not play with equal arms. The comparison with our German neighbour is not to our advantage: our country has fewer middle-sized companies – around 5000 in France compared to 12,000 on the German side – our trade balance is in deficit... And yet, it is a country that is close to us both sociologically and economically. Imagine the differences with other countries, both globally and within the European Union and even the euro area, which, thanks to their more flexible standards and lower tax rates, attract more investors, enable their businesses to grow and promote entrepreneurship! It is therefore more than urgent to wake up and really simplify the lives of our companies, which suffer from the weight of too many standards that stifle them and penalise their growth. It is imperative to give our businesses, especially the smaller ones, room for manoeuvre. It is on this condition that we will manage to get our country out of the rut in which it is mired and from the weak growth that we have not been able to overcome for too long. It is also on this condition that we will relaunch employment and put an end to mass unemployment. The aim of this bill is to simplify the lives of businesses, diversify their sources of financing to enable them to innovate, facilitate entrepreneurship and better involve employees in the fruits of the distribution of wealth thus created. However, the UDI-Agir and Independents Group regretted that the Government had not chosen to go further on certain issues. The rationalisation of thresholds, which we know to be a decisive psychological and financial barrier to business growth, is a common sense measure that we support. In particular, I am thinking of the need for the text to have crossed a threshold for five consecutive years in order to be obliged to do so. Why, however, not have gone further in the overall harmonisation of staff thresholds to retain only three – 20, 50 and 250 employees – and to harmonise all the obligations around them? Similarly, the partial abolition of the social package, which hinders a better sharing of the value created within the company, is a positive signal. It should, however, be completely abolished in a timetable compatible with our budgetary constraints. This will be the subject of one of our proposals. We also disagree on the removal of the obligation to attend a pre-installation training course. You tell us, Minister, that its time-consuming nature and low cost would penalise the creation of a business, but on the contrary, it is the lack of minimum training in the concrete realities of the management and conduct of a business that often penalizes new entrepreneurs. We will propose a compromise amendment to make it mandatory for business start-ups to know the existence and content of this internship. In addition, questions remain about the relevance of the privatizations that you advocate in Chapter II.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u273	Oh! Bolshevik!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u274	In addition to being located in strategic sectors, the target companies pay dividends to the government each year. It is necessary to know how many years of dividend returns will correspond to the proceeds of the divestitures. Indeed, it does not seem consistent to sacrifice family jewels if they are kept in the long term more at the expense of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u275	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u276	Finally, we are a number to be reserved for the new provisions provided for in Article 61, which provide for the company to take into account the social and environmental stakes of its activity: do you therefore not trust companies and their actors to believe that they are already doing so? What does this article, which already exists, add, if only through social and environmental responsibility? Similarly, the introduction of the concept of raison d'être, an unprecedented concept that is more a matter of legal philosophy than of the legislative framework, asks us: the law "allows, orders or prohibits", wrote Portalis, while with this article we are far from it. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] We expect the Government to provide answers to our legitimate questions and, of course, to lend a favourable ear to our proposals for improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u277	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u278	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, the Chair of the Special Commission, and the rapporteurs, the purpose of the PACTE bill is to transform our economy in depth. This is a laudable and even necessary ambition. But it is an ambition that will be realized on the basis of a fair diagnosis of what is now the functioning of the economic world in France and Europe, its strengths and assets, but also its weaknesses. The real challenge lies in the objective that we want to propose to the economic world for our society. But capitalism in France no longer resembles that of the 1990s and before: instead of talking about risk, investment, development and economic adventure, a large part of the employers no longer speaks only of burdens, administrative procedures and the purchase of competitors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u279	There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u280	Between the management of the rent, typical of the modern manager, and the taking of risks around a new idea, apanage of the entrepreneur, the French companies are more and more divided. The split takes place in a much more difficult way between the capitalism of rent and the financialization on the one hand, and the capitalism of productive investment and development on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u281	Excellemment said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u282	For our part, the Socialist and related group, we are on the side of those who carry this productive investment and development. But you refuse, minister, to take on the reality of this split in your PACTE bill. You refuse to choose, i.e. to define a course, between these two orientations. And that's why the answers you think you'll bring will at best remain very incomplete, or even risk pushing France back. In this bill, we will support your initiatives related to the development of green finance, a more advanced codetermination in business and a definition of 21st century business around addressing social and environmental issues. On the other hand, we denounce several of your proposals. First of all, we denounce your renunciation of your economic role. Minister, you are Minister of Economy and Finance, not just Finance! This means that you must have a role in defining our country's economic course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u283	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u284	This means that you must keep in mind the tools for structuring economic policy. Today, however, you are proposing to sell Aéroports de Paris: in short, you are robbing what makes the very essence of your action for spatial planning. By doing this, you give the keys to Paris to a private shareholder. Looking at the capital structure of airports in Europe, it appears that France is already one of the countries with the largest shareholding opening to the private sector, on average at 42%. Going further would bring our country into a logic that does not exist anywhere else in the European Union – except in the United Kingdom, which will soon leave it. In Germany, a country you know well, Minister, public authority is the majority shareholder of all airports, including major airports, be it Berlin, Frankfurt or Munich.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u285	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u286	When it comes to infrastructure, public authorities must keep their hands. If you decide to continue this privatisation, we have a second issue of concern: whatever the governments, on the left or on the right, the state has always been unable to control the terms of the concession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u287	We saw him with the highways.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u288	It is sufficient, indeed, to recall the example of the motorways, which were transferred in 2006: it took all the skill of the Finance Committee and its rapporteur-general of the time, Gilles Carrez, to revise upwards the abnormally low selling price which had been fixed by President Nicolas Sarkozy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u289	Chew it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u290	Secondly, we denounce the lack of action on your part in the field of foreign trade, which has been one of the major weaknesses of our economy for ten years. The drop-out clearly took place between 2002 and 2008. The fall was particularly acute in the industry, particularly in the automotive and agri-food industries. Only one sector grew in the early 2010s, down from all the others: financial activities. However, in the field of external trade, our public policy is simply not at the level. To realize this, just look over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over In Germany, there is a prospecting credit that is much more robust than ours: if we were to transpose it in a similar way in France, we would have to spend 100 million euros on it. Moreover, during the debate on the Macron law in 2015, the idea was raised that SMEs could have access to the tax credit for commercial exploration expenses for a second time, provided that they had an employee in charge of development for export. We have tabled amendments to that effect again. We also denounce the net decline in productive support for enterprises. So last year, in the 2018 Finance Act, you gave up the over-amortization that we had put in place and that allowed real support for business investment. Instead, you preferred to free up savings by removing almost all of the ISF – a savings that, Minister, did not end up in the productive economy. We denounce your lack of initiative to protect very small businesses. As we know, one of the difficulties for SMEs – it is certainly not the only one – is access to finance for their cash flow needs. This has implications for their profitability, and sometimes even for their survival. In some cases, intervention commissions represent substantial sums. It is with this in mind that we have tabled an amendment aimed at capping the commissions for TPEs facing financial difficulties. Indeed, many of them may find themselves caught in a vicious circle. We also denounce your lack of will in the legal protection of unlisted companies and their minority shareholders, which would allow them, in the case of an inamical takeover, to counter the looting of their human capital and know-how. In this respect, Minister, what is happening in Germany is also instructive in my view. For the short story, in 2004, the minority shareholders of Wella, an SME created in 1880 in the shampoo sector, won against its ultra-majority shareholder, Procter &amp; Gamble, while he wanted to impose a size reduction strategy on him. German law on unlisted companies governs the relationship between large companies and small and medium-sized companies whose shareholders they become, taking into account, in particular, the existence of groups of de facto companies. Different from the regime applicable to the contractual group of companies, the main purpose of the scheme is to regulate the dependence of SMEs and ITEs on their majority shareholder, i.e. the situation in which the majority shareholder exerts influence or in any way takes measures which may be detrimental to the company. Extremely dissuasive, this legal system has proved its effectiveness in addition to Rhin. In Germany, for example, there is an extremely small number of claims for liability. Since SMEs and ETIs are immune from the harmful decisions of their majority shareholder, their entrepreneurial autonomy is preserved. They are therefore not afraid to open up their capital. We have translated this protective mechanism into an amendment and would like you, Minister, to be able to support it. Finally, and this is not a denunciation but a question, we question your real willingness to make the energy transition a lever for economic growth. In this area, several avenues can be mentioned, such as the shift from savings to green finance or public investment, which you seem to have forgotten in your project. [[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups and GDR]] As regards the shift from savings to green finance, the Socialist and Related Group has tabled several amendments. One of them, I say very frankly, minister, is a copy-paste of the one that was tabled on the occasion of the Sapin 2 bill. Castaner, who has since become Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, in charge of relations with Parliament. We hope, Minister, that you will at least support this amendment by your Government colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u291	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u292	Minister, the chair of the special commission, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen of the rapporteurs, we are therefore in the presence of the PACTE bill, the action plan for business growth. In committee, we have heard all the classics in your mouths. Minister, I quote: "This is the right time to give new impetus to our growth"; "This is the right time to boost growth"; "This is the right time to free growth"; "This is the right time to remove the obstacles to growth"; "This is the right time to activate a growth lever."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u293	[[Smile]] It's really a good time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u294	I want to congratulate you. I even wonder where you're going to look for all this: what unprecedented, original, frankly new rhetoric!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u295	That's the comment of a pro!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u296	It seems to me that I already heard this in my mother's belly: crisis, growth, crisis, growth... Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, I checked, already held this language. I quote: "The latest evidence shows the recovery of some growth. So France is emerging from the crisis." Then, while I was in short panties, there was François Mitterrand: "We are waiting, we are still announcing for next month, in two months, in six months, a return to growth". Chirac took up the same chorus, in voluntarist mode: "Growth, you have to do it, it is in the hands of each of you. Then we had Nicolas Sarkozy. You have worked with him, minister, to get "with the teeth" an additional growth point. According to him, "the forces of growth must be liberated." François Hollande, as usual, shone by his conformism: "There will be no growth without confidence. There will be no confidence without growth. Until the current president, Emmanuel Macron, who has caused us, since Versailles, as we did, Minister, of sustainable growth and shared growth. He rang the tocsin: "We must now free up the barriers to business growth." For forty years you have been reciting this catechism to us. Forty years you are in the incantation and invocation of a heavenly power: growth. Forty years since you're a costume witch, you're making us voodoo. Forty years as you look at the statistics as the augurs searched, in Rome, the bowels of the geese, promising us eternal growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u297	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u298	Forty years that growth is your belief. Forty years you're looking for her. Forty of you pray, hands joined, for his return. In parentheses, I define myself, as others say themselves agnostic, as "acroizing": I have evacuated this parameter as I have evacuated God from my field of vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u299	Wouldn't you rather be descending?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u300	And how do you expect to achieve this growth today? With competition, privatisation, simplification, incentives, competition, you say. You may say them with emphasis, but you can simulate enthusiasm, they are words-cadavres that fall from your mouth, words already worn out, words exhausted, words aborted, words stillborn: growth, competition, competition, simplification. So that's your new world? All very old ideas, with very old words. You sound empty and you reason hollow. The idea came to me: Emmanuel Macron, for me, it's a little Dorian Gray. You have obviously read this Oscar Wilde novel in which a young aristocrat feels eternally young. He is, by the way – his face is – but in the evening, he finds his portrait, which is aging and loosening in his place. The oligarchy needed a new face for a very old policy: it was Emmanuel Macron, or cheerism with a puppy face. But I'm sure that in the evening, when he looks in his mirror, he sees Giscard, he sees Pompidou, he sees the wrinkles of a very old world that rads: Growth! Growth! Growth! Here I would like to bring a new idea to Europe: growth is no longer happy. A table provided by the United Nations shows this. What's he telling us? That, in the early stages of development, wealth does indeed add to the well-being of countries: life expectancy rises very rapidly. That's true in poor countries. But other phases follow: the higher the standard of living, the weaker the link between income and life expectancy. It disappears completely: from about $25,000 per capita, the upward curve becomes horizontal. Let us now zoom in on the richest countries. What do we notice? Well, nothing! In the richest countries, there is no longer a link between the level of wealth and the level of well-being. Countries are randomly distributed: the United States, the richest country, has a lower life expectancy than Spain and New Zealand, and a lower per capita income! And we get the same results, the same curves and the same inconsistency if, instead of life expectancy, we take all health and social problems, such as infant mortality, obesity or homicide. This means a simple and essential thing: growth no longer brings happiness. In fact, for the last forty years, we have been told of a crisis-growth-crisis-growth, in other words, since the mid-1970s, per capita income in France has almost doubled. But for the rate of happiness, that is, the proportion of people who declare themselves happy, it has nothing to do with it! If you look at the income curve per pipe head, i.e. per capita, and the reported rate of happiness, they are completely disjointed: the level of happiness no longer increases, even if growth persists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u301	Yes, but we live better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u302	Today, therefore, growth is no longer the source of additional well-being.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u303	What a sophistry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u304	Why, then, do you cling to this growth? Why are you hammering that dogma? Why are you still ready to deprive canteen workers, privatize airports and the Lotto and deregulate gas prices in the name of this growth? It is that, for the powerful, growth fulfils a function, an ideological role. It allows people to say: take patience, your fate will improve – but wait for growth first. It's a sedative. It's a rhetorical straitjacket. What, for example, does President Macron proclaim? That, as we have repeated in this forum, "without growth, there is no chance of redistribution. That's not true. It's archi-false. It's a fraud. We can redistribute. We can redistribute right now. And we can redistribute massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u305	Yes, massively!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u306	Why, then, such a lie? Because Macron is the man of the 500 families. Of the 500 families that's making fun of themselves. Of the 500 families we find each year in Challenges, which is, you know, my favorite reading. Last year, this economic magazine wrote: "The observation is obvious: the heritage of the ultra-rich in France has grown considerably over the last two decades. The value of the 500 fortunes has been multiplied by seven! Figures that show the tremendous growth of companies for the benefit of their shareholders." "As a result, the '500', which had only the equivalent of 6% of the PlB in 1996, now weigh 25%! » But that was last year: this year, in the new Challenge ranking, these 500 fortunes, which weighed 25% of GDP last year, now account for 30% of the same GDP! As a result, they earned 5 per cent in just 12 months. And what would be missing after all this is growth? No, what's missing is sharing. Sharing first, sharing right away! The cake in front of us is huge, huge: 2300 billion euros. That is France's GDP. Two thousand three hundred billion euros! A wealth never reached! There is something to taste for everyone, and even to a large extent. Let's share! But that word, shared, hates you. Sharing: for the rich it has always been a cry of fear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u307	And when there's nothing left to share?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u308	Your reasoning, then, that is to say, the reasoning we've been told for forty years, is: we're going to make the cake grow, so the poor will have more crumbs, the rich will have a bigger piece and everyone will be happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u309	What about the debt?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u310	It's a fraud. It's a scam. An economist, or an intellectual, said it very clearly: "It is a myth that liberal economists know how to maintain, that growth reduces inequality. This argument to postpone '' to later '' any redistributive claim is an unsubstantiated intellectual scam. Who made this brilliant analysis? Who said, don't wait for growth to redistribute? Do you know, minister, who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u311	You'll tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u312	Jacques Attali! But in 1973... Since then, he has joined them, the liberal economists. He took the lead, he spread this unsubstantiated intellectual scam. He advised Ségolène Royal before joining Nicolas Sarkozy and then laying down, alongside Emmanuel Macron, his 316 proposals to free French growth, symbol of the unique thought. From one presidency to the next, this intellectual fraud continues. But the scam is now turning to tragedy. Because at last, and above all, there is the planet. You will certainly dress your growth with all the adjectives of the world – green, sustainable, sustainable... – to whom will you make believe that we will produce more and pollute less? It's bullshit. It's greenwashe baratin. It's lexical greening. The truth, and you know, is that the GDP cake is today stuffed with toxic stuff, stuffed with glyphosate, rotten with plastic, and it doesn't get so salivated anymore. The truth, as you know, is that in 30 years we are already at 30% fewer birds, 80% for flying insects, butterflies, ladybugs. And the forecast is 95% for 2030, i.e. a near-total disappearance for tomorrow, in France! The truth, as you know, is that we are already above 1.5 degrees of global warming – above 2 degrees and, no doubt, 3 degrees. The poles melt, and the glaciers with them. The truth is, anxiety rises even faster than the level of the oceans. What air, what land, what seas are we going to leave to our children? The truth is, you know that, but you continue as before, repeating "Growth! Growth! Growth! As if nothing were happening. The truth is, your oligarchy prefers profit to life. The truth is, you're the leaders of the country, but you're running it right in the ecological wall, right to environmental crash, right to collapse. We're going, we're going and we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're Growth! Growth! The truth is, you're blinded, unconscious, delusional. There is an urgent need for people, the people, the masses, to call it as you wish, to take over the steering wheel, to change direction, to press the brake. It is up to me, to us to take on this break, to proclaim it, to hammer it: your growth, we no longer wait for it, we no longer want it, and even it kills us! It's a straitjacket, this growth. It is a straitjacket for politics and a straitjacket for the imagination, because as long as we hope for growth, we have no other hope. We pray, on our knees, in cadence, for a world over, while if it happens, much better open to us. A future not only viventable, but desirable extends our arms, much more pleasant than your old world rejuvenated and wrinkled. It is a challenge that English epidemiologist Richard Wilkinson states: "It is the end of an era. So far, to improve our condition, there was an answer that worked: to produce more wealth. We have passed a certain threshold, and this link is now broken. It was predictable: if our stomach cries famine, eating bread is the ultimate relief; But once our stomach is full, having many other breads does not help us particularly. We are the first generation to have to answer this question in a more innovative way: how else can we improve human life? What do we turn to if it is no longer economic growth? » Well, I answer – we answer, with Richard Wilkinson, with Dominique Bourg, with Hervé Kempf, with Paul Ariès, with Aurélien Barrau and, perhaps, with Nicolas Hulot; with many others, we answer: less goods, more links! We answer: consume less, distribute better! We answer: sharing, above all, sharing, right away. We answer: equality – the equality that is at the heart of the republican triptych Freedom, Equality, Fraternity, equality without which everything collapses, equality today forgotten, flouted, every day trampled. Today, you listen to me as an original, as a marginal, well seated as you are on your certainty – Growth! Growth! Growth! But there's a wind rising. It is even a storm, a terrible storm, that I too fear and that will sweep away your assurance, which will come to impose an obvious one: the fools, it is you – the fools who advocate infinite growth in a finite world, the fools who lead humanity to its suicide. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and Socialist and related groups. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Fortunately, there are still a few wise men, people perhaps without ties, or long hair, or poorly polished language, but people at the bottom infinitely more reasonable and preparing for tomorrow, for our country, another hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u313	Mr Bruno Bonnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u314	[[Laughs]] After the thesis, the antithesis! Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen the rapporteurs, the tool improved the dexterity of man. Millennia later, the machine lost its strength. The tool has allowed the development of agriculture, and this agrarian development, where groups of men and women have been socially connected by customs and customs, has created rules. Thus were born the Roman collegiati corporati, the Germanic gilden, the medieval corporations, which formally organized the works and the constructions. The machine changed that order of things. The workshops became factories and the words "shareholder", "employer", "worker", "employee" gradually replaced those of "worker" and "craftman". Legal structures have been designed to frame these new realities. The first commercial code, in 1807, established public limited companies. A little later, in July 1867, they were released from the authorization of the Council of State, which allowed their development by giving a legal framework to the industrial revolution, which was a source of prosperity. We have reached another point in the world, that of the digital and robotic revolution, coupled with an acute awareness of the limits of resources and our responsibility to future generations. The legal framework of companies must therefore be adapted so that they can seize the full potential of these new opportunities, and this in all territories, because these new paradigms also upset the geographical situation. Marx – yes, Marx – said that the armmill had led to the power of the suzerain and the steam machine industrial capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u315	Good reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u316	What would he say today about the robot? Without being clear, he certainly would not doubt that the robot transforms the relationships of strength and meaning in the company. The PACTE bill is in fact the link of a chain, in the continuity of previous texts. The company is too often caricatured, reduced to an operating account and judged on strictly financial criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u317	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u318	However, companies go far beyond skeletons of numbers. They are a noria of human adventures. In the crucible companies mix cultures, from here or elsewhere, are inventing words imported from other countries. For example, the "having" of the mines comes from German, the "storage" of the Portuguese shipyards, the "algebra" of the artificial intelligence of Arabic, the "toutenague" of the founders of Persian. In the crucible of companies, friendships are forged, on the occasion of technical challenges and commercial battles. In the crucible of companies there are sources of professional inspiration, such as the love of the profession transmitted by the seniors or the education of new techniques provided by the younger ones. These permanent exchanges of knowledge and experience make companies the preferred places for social mixing. And it is also in the crucible of companies that the nation is built, by confronting ideas, by opening the social debate, by sharing the value of work, by discussing the meaning of their action and their missions. In my riding, in Villeurbanne, dozens of factories have hosted large numbers of immigrants because of a lack of arms. They were called "Ritals", "Spingouins", "Polaks", "Arabs"; They lived side by side and, above all, worked together, for common purposes, exchanging their practices and, for many of them, their wishes, building by word and belly a diverse identity in this territory. The purpose of the PACTE bill is to give businesses this place as a founding element of the social body. First, by its very presentation: it is a systemic reform, carried out through a vision of the living enterprise. Over the course of seventy-three articles, it sweeps through all its stages, from its creation to, at times, its disappearance, through its development and growth. It is also its clearly stated objective to help businesses grow that this text draws a clear line. The entrepreneurial environment has changed from a catch-up economy, where reconstruction and then unlimited consumption drove growth, to an innovation economy, where users and consumers are more alert, more demanding and embrace new values. In this context, growth is essential, not to maximize profits, but to build capacity for innovation. The PACTE bill aims to anticipate this development, by helping companies grow not only physically, for example by simplifying thresholds or stimulating exports, but also in a responsible way, involving all stakeholders in its governance and ownership. This is why it enshrines the notion not of a social object, as has been said, but of the "social interest" of the company, stresses the need to take into consideration social and environmental issues, and also proposes to create companies on mission. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the time of "robolution," let's call it that, and of ecological awareness, this bill gives a legal basis to the imagination, the genius, the French spirit of conquering the markets in waste or becoming one. It is a text of boldness and determination, a course towards the growth of all businesses, of services as well as of industry, in all our territories, even the most unexpected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u319	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u320	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my satisfaction...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u321	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u322	... and that, I think, of my colleague Jacques Savatier, who sits on the supervisory committee of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. Indeed, the solution we have reached with regard to the governance of the Fund gives us satisfaction. Since its establishment in 1816, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations has been placed under the most special supervision of Parliament. At the beginning of the year, we feared that this historic situation would be called into question by the executive branch. However, Minister, Parliament's control had been very effective over the past two hundred years, thanks to prudent, prudent governance, which has enabled the Fund to overcome all financial crises, including the one in 2008-2009. Thus, and this is Parliament's primary responsibility, the savings of the French, notably through the booklet A, whose management is entrusted to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, has been safeguarded. Today, the Supervisory Committee has thirteen members, eight of whom come directly or indirectly from Parliament. If the amendment that Sophie Errante, Jacques Savatier and I are going to present to you is, as I hope, adopted, the Supervisory Committee will increase to sixteen members, ten of whom come directly or indirectly from Parliament. It will welcome two staff representatives, responding to an old request that our former colleague Henri Emmanuelli had tried, without success, to satisfy during the previous parliamentary term. On the other hand, the solution chosen will make it possible to move slowly, but in a certain way, towards parity, which is indispensable in this body too. However, Parliament's preponderance will remain the rule. I would like to thank the rapporteur-general, Roland Lescure, as well as Jean-Noël Barrot, who followed this issue in particular, who helped us in the search for this agreement. With regard to the other matters relating to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations in this text, I mean that in recent months we have worked well with your services, Minister, whether it be the cabinet or the management of the Treasury. There too we had a number of differences at the beginning. In summary, the Supervisory Committee will now have a deliberative responsibility, approving the accounts – while until now it has given only one opinion – which will strengthen its responsibilities vis-à-vis those of the Director General. It will remain responsible for the development of the prudential model, i.e. setting the level of own funds, the solvency, liquidity and risk acceptance criteria. On the other hand, supervision will fall under the responsibility of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority: this development seems indispensable to me. The annual levy for the benefit of the State will now be fixed by decree. I think that this solution is preferable to that of the simple exchange of letters – on one condition, however: that there is some stability and predictability, at least over a few years. In short, although our views were initially quite distant, we have reached an agreement, and I very much welcome it. Minister, you have tabled an amendment relating to La Poste, to allow the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to become its majority shareholder. This is an extremely important measure. It has an undeniable interest, and first of all from the point of view of the harmonisation of public policies – I am thinking in particular of spatial planning policy, which we need to relaunch. In this regard, the operation will give us substantial means to combat the territorial divide. The association of the policies carried out by the Caisse des dépôts and the La Poste network therefore seems to me to be positive. At the same time, the establishment of a banking and insurance centre within La Poste should facilitate the development of the group. But we must be well aware, Minister, that there are risks involved in the operation and that we must take our time. The Caisse des dépôts' share in La Poste since 2008, i.e. 26%, has thus been depreciated by almost EUR 1 billion. This figure, far from negligible, should invite us to assess the risks to own funds. I would also like, if the President allows me to do so, to finish with a word on the privatisation of Paris airports, of which Valérie Rabault spoke. I was a general budget rapporteur and opposed the privatisation of motorways, a subject on which I had entered into a rather harsh conflict with the then Prime Minister, Dominique de Villepin. The decision that was taken at the time was not the right one in my view: as was pointed out earlier, concession contracts are totally unbalanced, and there is no regulation of toll rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u323	That's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u324	I will mention just one figure: the dividends paid to private shareholders are now greater than the total amount of the sale, which we were talking about at the time, namely 14 or 15 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u325	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u326	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The Aéroports de Paris group is in a monopoly situation, and it has a considerable asset. It is therefore imperative to find a solution that will serve the long-term interests of the public community: that is the message that, in the light of my experience with highways, I would like to address you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u328	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u329	Yes, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u330	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u331	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are all here, I am convinced, measuring the leading role of companies in our society and our economy. The PACTE bill, which takes on this issue, sees the company as one of the levers of reform necessary for the economic transformation of our country. In doing so, it extends the work undertaken since the beginning of the legislature to empower businesses to innovate, transform, grow and create jobs. PACTE has a great ambition to emerge from the French anomaly, which hinders the growth of TPEs and SMEs, even though they are an important source of jobs for French and French people. Helping the transformation of SMEs into SMEs and SMEs into ITEs is indeed a key issue in terms of our country's economic development. Unfortunately, from their creation to their transmission, companies are now moving through a maze of obligations that complicate and slow down their development. Your ambition, Minister, which is also that of the MODEM and related group, is to remove the obstacles that block the dynamics of business creation and hinder their growth. The idea is simple: it is necessary to lighten and modernise. Why? So that companies no longer have to deal with staff thresholds that are unsuitable for their daily lives; to help them engage in the adventure of exporting; to fluidize their transmission; to direct the savings of the French towards their financing. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is fully committed to the philosophy of the law in that it aims to revive the spirit of economic recovery, to adapt the model of French enterprise to the realities of the 21st century or to simplify the lives of companies, like that of administrations, in line with the ESSOC law – for a state at the service of a society of trust – which we voted for not so long ago. The bill before us is all the more important as it seeks to foster the ability of our economy to grow and ultimately strengthen our growth potential through job creation. I am particularly sensitive to two major advances: on the one hand, encouraging employee interest and participation; On the other hand, the definition of the social object of the company, which questions its interactions with its employees, its partners, its territory. My group is committed to the corporate vision of this bill, which enables it to integrate the CSR dimension – corporate social responsibility – into its social purpose. This provision is fundamental, as the awareness of the company's societal utility is necessary for its proper functioning and the well-being of its employees. From this point of view, the bill envisages the enterprise beyond the binary vision that commonly pits the head of the enterprise against his employees. The company is a larger whole, which brings together many interacting actors in a territory; a whole whose success depends on the accountability of these actors, leaders and employees, and a positive interaction with their partners and territory, for the benefit of each of the stakeholders. Ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the text in committee took fifty-three hours of debate. I hope that reading in the Chamber will be part of the same desire to debate the issues we have to deal with. These issues are important: they concern our country's economic model and its ability to produce jobs. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I would like, Minister, to commend your constructive attitude, transparency and willingness to cooperate and involve Members of Parliament in the development of the bill. Finally, I would like to assure you of the support of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement in the long hours of debate to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u332	Thank you, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u333	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u334	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Winston Churchill said, "the businessman is considered a man to be shot down, or a cow to milk. Few see in him the horse that pulls the chariot". It is gratifying that the executive is committed to resolutely encouraging business start-ups. Who could oppose it? This design takes a variety of forms, from limiting entry barriers to reducing administrative burdens. Too many of this kind of burdens stifle entrepreneurship and prevent ours from succeeding as well as our competitors. In this sense, I would like to welcome the possibilities offered by this text for quickly remediating firms in difficulty. Entrepreneurial life, "economic life" could be said, is never linear. It is not only a success, and lessons can be learned from the setbacks. It seems to me just to give another chance to those to whom the spell did not smile spontaneously. I welcome the unanimous adoption of the amendment which I supported in committee with regard to the submission of a government report on women's entrepreneurship in France and the possibility of implementing measures at national level to support women entrepreneurs. I know that the chairman of the special committee and the minister are very sensitive. Women's entrepreneurship is struggling to advance in our country. While France is one of the most working women in Europe, with 48% of the total working population, women remain largely a minority in entrepreneurship, even though female entrepreneurship is a powerful driver of growth and competitiveness. I also welcome the initiative of the rapporteur-general, Mr Roland Lescure, to set up an ad hoc evaluation and monitoring mechanism. It is wise that an evaluation committee be established and that Parliament be a party to it. I also believe that it is absolutely necessary to improve and diversify the financing of French small and medium-sized enterprises, including those located abroad. Indeed, the French are everywhere in the world, and present on every continent. The number of our compatriots living abroad is estimated to be between 2 and 2.5 million. Almost three out of ten of them are entrepreneurs, and more and more are exporting the excellence of our know-how. There are between 50 and 80 per cent binationals among the French in the world. Thus, we are far from the sponcifs on tax escapes or on "neocolons". Most of them love France as much as their host country, where they very often share a life, a family, a love, roots. They often also carry a project of economic activity. Many young people met abroad tell you that, to succeed, they had to leave. Indeed, our compatriots are increasingly succeeding abroad, even though their departure is often the result of failure in our country. We want to overthrow the table, so that the expatriation results from a process of success and that France benefits from its positive effects. That is why, Minister, rather than the "made in France", I propose the "made by France". The Made by France is exporting French excellence throughout the world, through our young people, through our diaspora. The Made by France is changing your eyes on our youth and trusting him, saying: "Go conquer the world and, since you love me, you will come back! » The Made by France is also a paradigm shift. Indeed, our young people must become soldiers of this spirit of economic conquest, which you call your vows, Minister. Let us rely on them and, rather than considering them as a problem, let us trust them. The Made by France is to believe that a Frenchman who goes abroad is above all a chance for our country. To leave is to grow, and it is to make us grow. The Made by France is, after saying Choose France! Tell our young Conquer the world! The Made by France, Minister, would be very concretely creating a bank of French entrepreneurs of the world. It is a project that I defend and that I believe deeply in. The many French entrepreneurs I met on the ground during my travels in the ridings, each time highlighting the difficulties they encounter in obtaining funding. How many projects have not been completed! The sum of guarantees required is such that in practice it is almost impossible for them to obtain aid to develop and conquer new markets. That is why I have tabled several amendments aimed at enabling the Caisse des dépôts or Bpifrance to finance, through an experiment and through a loan, French entrepreneurs located abroad, even when their business is not under French law. I hope, minister, that you will join me on this point: the French who live around the world are a force and a wealth that we do not exploit enough. Let us turn the love we show them in the stands and meetings in the embassies into a concrete, tangible act of love. Let us trust them and give them the means to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u335	Nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u336	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u337	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome and thank the President for the good conduct of the work in the Special Committee. The PACTE law before us today tends to respond, as rapporteur Roland Lescure explained to this forum, to three challenges: developing the economy, giving new freedoms to businesses and protecting the environment. It is from these three challenges that you call for a redefinition of the company to meet the challenges of the 21st century. The PACTE law must release and, at the same time, protect in order to prosper better. Here's your message. While it is true that this law contains some progress that I welcome – notably by increasing the number of employee directors on boards of directors, by stimulating employee ownership or by proposing greater parity between men and women in corporate governance – it is not to be expected that it will fully modernise the economy by effectively responding to the challenges of our century. Of course, a bill will never exhaust all economic problems; that is not the issue. But since it claims to solve at the same time the three challenges you have previously announced – improving the economy, protecting the environment and freeing businesses – I will bring some nuances, because it seems more than ambiguous in this regard. We must, you say, redefine the enterprise for the 21st century. However, the redefinition of the social interest of the company that you are defending instead enshrines the social responsibility of the company as it already exists in practice, rather than setting the stage for a real turn in this field. The Socialist Group, through Dominique Potier's proposal for a law "New Enterprise and New Governances", had advocated, long before the review of the PACTE project, a more ambitious redefinition of the social interest of the company, in order to better protect society from negative externalities and thus give the company its full legitimacy. Meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century also means setting the stage for a welfare state that is more aware of the long-term challenges. As such, we have a major problem with the entire privatisation component of the PACTE law. In order to finance an innovation policy in the short term, you want to divest state stakes in companies that are particularly profitable and strategic for our country, namely Aéroports de Paris, La Française des jeux and Engie. The State's participation in the capital of these three enterprises contributes to its financing to a considerable extent. It therefore seems necessary to remind you of some essential elements in order to appreciate the stakes involved. The French of the Games is 72% owned by the State, to which it contributed more than 90 million euros of dividends in 2016. Paris airports, on the other hand, are 50.6 per cent owned by the State. It is one of the public enterprises with the best financial situation. I would remind you that it paid €258 million of dividends to the State in 2016. Finally, Engie is 24% owned by the State and, again in 2016, brought nearly 800 million euros in dividends to the State. After the privatisation of motorways, which, as Boris Vallaud pointed out, costs the state nearly 1.5 billion euros a year in dividends, do we really want to pursue the policy of privatizing our economic flowers? The Government has decided to save on the amount of personalized housing assistance and pensions; And, at the same time, would he deprive himself of such a resource? As we will have understood, such arbitration can only be done at the expense of the French. These additional budgetary resources could have contributed to securing their future and freeing them from economic and environmental constraints, contributing to the reduction of inequalities or reviving ecological conversion, which is at risk, as Nicolas Hulot said when he left the Government. But this will not be the case: with the PACTE law, the dividends of former public enterprises will be for the richest. Thus, while the bill was facing the economic challenges of the twenty-first century, it will unfortunately contribute to further reducing the confidence that the French gave to government action at the very beginning of the quinquennium. In economics, however, trust is a queen. By privatising these three strategic companies, you are not promoting a conversion of the French economy that meets the challenges of the 21st century. You're leading a short-term policy. You prefer the immediate profit to the rent. In this way, you help fuel doubts about your policy and deprive future governments of the revenue you will have received. [[Applause on the benches of the Socialist and related groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to find a more measured position by taking into account our amendments and, consequently, the interests of the French. I'm sure you'll be sensitive to it. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u338	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u339	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues, the subject is of importance. It is usually treated, in French political life, in a way that is not reasonable. Either we talk about companies as a totally abstract reality – "businesses" here, "businesses" there. Either we curse them and make them the place of all suffering, perpetuating in passing the idea that work is a curse and, as in the Bible, torture – this ideology still has its supporters. Either one sees the place of all miracles, where, thanks to the genius entrepreneur, he accumulates wealth that is then generously donated to one another – which, of course, never happens: they are given above all to one another, and very poorly to the other. Just now, one of our colleagues in the Republic on the move has given us the honour of presenting us with a vision of the company that has been put back in time. It is, I think, a good way to proceed. Let us say that production has never been anything other than a social relationship. I'm saying it because, otherwise, we'd forget about it. One might think that a company is a self, a kind of fungus that would emerge from human culture in such a place and then spread its spores by an automatic mechanism identical to those of nature. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Production has always been a social relationship. By this I mean a way of organizing and sharing the product of wealth. This double grip – how one produces, how one shares – gives the guiding thread of history, between the master and the slave, between the serf and the feudal lord, between the proletarian and the capitalist. At this hour, I will thank you through all these steps to come directly to the one we live in. It is a view of the mind that to believe that capitalist enterprise is the same today as at the end of the nineteenth century, not only because the methods and processes of production have changed, but because of the background, that is, the way in which the social relationship has changed within capital itself. Indeed, what we have to do in history to understand what has happened is not only the relationship between capital and labour, but also capital itself. First of all, capitalism is an extraordinary system of which one often forgets the engine. You frequently invoke the boldness of the entrepreneur, of the one who invented, who found something; But all this is the 19th century! It's over! This is not the way it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u340	All right? We're not making up anything today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u341	Oh, but yes, of course, and we're all gargaging startups! Everything now is called startup. Someone who has found a new way to grow a bean, and here's a startup; Someone who has found a way to reduce a production process by two thirds, here's another one! In short, "startup" is the new term tote that replaces "business" and offers great words to all small units. I would like to dwell on the way in which the social relationship has evolved within the company and within capitalism, because that is the determining factor. Capitalism, I said, is a rather extraordinary formula. Perhaps you don't usually realize it: it is based entirely on the appropriation of free. It is only that: it owns a majority of the work free of charge. Work is the only source of wealth: it alone produces something, regardless of the level of the worker.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u342	That's not true! What about the investment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u343	There is only work: the real work of the person who works, the accumulated work of the person who invented the production process or the new object. The company is only a place where work is transformed into another work that increases the wealth produced. And, in this process, the majority of the value produced is taken over by the capitalist. It is therefore a system whose operation is based on free. That's the first thing. Second point: up to now, this has worked within the company and within a national economy. In other words, there was a edge. Of course, Mr rapporteur, exports have always existed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u344	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u345	But, for the most part, countries produced, lived, exchanged within their borders. Here we are now extended to the whole world. This extension does not come from the fact that production would have developed to the point where it needs to spread around the world: if you compare the proportions of what is happening and actually exchanges, you will be surprised to discover that, in value, the amounts have hardly changed compared to the last century. It was not until 1974 that we found a level of exchange comparable in value to that of before the First World War! What is essentially exchanged are abstract values that we call capital, securities, financial products, which rely more or less directly, and more and more distantly, on real productions. You know the proportions: there is a ratio of one to one thousand between what actually happens and what is exchanged in value! There is therefore a new stratum of capitalism, which dominates all its other sectors. That's the new thing. And that's the bottom line of our contradiction, minister. You have one day given me your vision of the world with all the sincerity that is yours – for I believe you are sincere. I told you, "Mr. Le Maire, what makes you think that the money you are no longer going to take in the form of a wealth tax is going to go into real investment and production? You were really surprised by my question, perhaps even shocked. You stood up and said to me, "Why is this going to happen, Mr. Mélenchon? But for reasons of common sense! For, for you, it is consistent with the common sense that capital, profit, overprofit return to production, as in the 19th century, as in the early 20th century, where what was accumulated in one place, to be able to profit, had to return to another, to produce. But in the 21st century, it's over, it's over! The accumulation of capital takes place in the financial sphere and has only a very distant relationship with production. The profit rates thus obtained are multiples of what is obtained in real production. In real production, they can reach 3 %, 4 %, 5 %; Now, we get to 10%, sometimes 12%, to the point of exsanguing everything that affects this production! We thus check this formula of Marx which, at the time, seemed strange: "Capital is a social relationship" – the way of appropriating myself that I mentioned earlier, free work – "which exhausts man and nature". Nature? We could hardly see what he could talk about at the time: it then seemed inexhaustible. But man, of course, saw how capitalism exhausted him. Well, now we can see how he's exhausting both of them. Thus, when we reflect from the point of view of human civilization, and not only from the precise political moment in which we are; When we look at the long history, as our colleague from the LaREM group did earlier, we see that at this particular time in the cooperation of people in the work, we relied on the competition of particular interests to produce the historical dynamic. Some of you eventually became completely insane about this, to the point of believing that the story itself was only the confrontation of selfishness, and that it alone would advance the collective bullfighter of humanity. Ms Thatcher once said, "There is no society"; There are only individuals caught in relationships of interdependence and, if they behave in perfect selfishness, the whole will eventually find balance. And you continue to believe in the invisible hand of the market, regulator of production and supreme master of the company! That today the so-called invisible hand of the market is an ecosystem in which a company has difficulty moving or from which it has difficulty escaping, is quite obvious to me. However, this is not always true, because the social relations in the company are not necessarily those of the capitalist enterprise: think of the social and solidarity economy, mutuals, cooperatives. Other ways of producing collectively are possible, according to other social relationships. Yet we must now understand – that this debate, after all, serves at least to set benchmarks! – why we must move from the free competition of the particular interests driving the activity – assuming that your utopia on this point has been founded – to something else. If we continue to think that it is enough, as my comrade François Ruffin so rightly said, to cry out "growth, growth! hoping to produce more and more to solve the crisis of civilization in which we are, we are mistaken! Therefore, there is a need to change paradigms. It is not the competition of particular interests that is likely to give its dynamic to production. That is why we say that we are the movement of order books. It is from the point of view of order books that political decisions must be made. But be careful: it is not a question of "creating the conditions" in which "order books" can, "the day when the free market has allowed that", blahblabla... No! This is the order book that the company fills!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u346	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u347	In other words, it is not one of supply, it is demand. What does the country need? That's the point of departure. What does humanity need? We're going to produce it. You need to change all production processes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u348	Sovietism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u349	It is no longer possible to continue to produce in this way, by operating such predation on nature, because this system is not viable! I say it forcefully because I know that most of you feel it like I do: there are no people here who don't care about the whole natural environment and others who care about it! Everyone thinks about it! Simply, you make small boxes: the box "nature", the box "production", and no relationship between the two... But there is one: if we continue to consider that we must always produce more, anything, any way, with only the lowest possible price, then this lowest price, it is free from man and nature. In other words: more and more work for some, more and more deregulated social statutes, so that people are held to work by fear; and, on the other hand, the ruin of nature, paid per person. Because this is also capitalism: to pay on the beast, and to pay on nature. If you change the paradigm, then you have to choose the general interest. That is why, in any case for us, there is a very close link between this debate today and the idea of a green rule that would be constitutionalised. It would be a challenge to all our technicians, engineers and productive workers of all kinds: we would no longer take nature more than what it can reconstruct. France is a great technical and skilled nation. She is able to meet this challenge. But you have to change everything! First, we need to change the ones that produce. This involves different formations. This means changing machines, changing raw materials, changing the way we distribute, changing the way we consume so that these irresponsible behaviors in which not only we all participate, but in which we are invited to participate always more – preferring the goods a thousand times packed than the one that comes in bulk for example, to the point that, as we have already said, there will soon be more plastic in the sea than there are fish... After the green rule in the Constitution, ecological planning is needed. It is thanks to her that we will fill in the order books. I would like to hear that. On the day when it will be our turn to govern, there will be the return of what General de Gaulle called the "fiery obligation" of the plan. The plan, i.e. the modification of production processes and objectives. You see, it's not Gosplan, it's the plan. At the end of the last world war, everyone planned, all economies, capitalist economies as well as socialist economies. Only then did we start to curse the plan and look at it as an absurdity that would not work. As if many of the countries that planned had not come out of their backwardness thanks to the plan! As if great nations like ours had not made such paradigm changes, such technological and scientific leaps through centrally given planning and objectives! The central objective we will set will be the change in production, I have just mentioned. The corresponding measures must therefore be taken, and that is what I will limit my remarks to. First, there is the green rule. It is a technical and scientific challenge, a challenge for producers. You will not make this rule work with a few egg heads, especially not with those that have been placed at the control posts in the big companies in this country!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u350	[[Smile]] "Egg head" is not very nice for the general rapporteur's cup!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u351	I could have taken it personally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u352	This has nothing to do with your baldness, dear colleague, you were not targeted. I do not argue with you, but with those who have invented to replace, at the head of big companies like Airbus, Air France, SNCF or others, engineers and producers with financiers, i.e. commercial attachés and brilliant brains who pretended, for example, to sell more aircraft by explaining to everyone that they would put in what they expected to find there, without imagining that obviously every time we had to change planes. I exaggerate, I know, I caricature a little. But I am telling the truth that everyone knows about the company, apart from those who have only attended the summits where money was brewed, and the financiers, which is the case with some of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u353	Not that! Not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u354	But the company is first of all those who produce, who invent production and production chains, before those who decide how to put the cash of the group and how to make the burn sweat more. The company is first of all engineers and producers! To do this, you'll need everyone. So we need to extend the rights in the company. I found this beautiful idea under the pen of Jaurès: "For work to be truly free all workers must be called on to lead it, they must participate in the economic government of the workshop, as they participate by universal suffrage in the political government of the city. And he, who did not know the pension funds, criticized the shareholder: "In many cases, shareholders do not know to any degree the actual functioning of the company owned by them. They've never seen it work. They ignore the technical and economic mechanism. They don't know or they only ask for one thing: what does it bring back? » That's exactly what happens in a pension fund. They don't know what they own. In an area which has nothing to do with industrial production, fisheries, I heard someone tell me that if we could transfer fishing rights from one boat to another, we would see the pension funds apply again to buy them back! This person is on the right and does not share my ideas, but she told me that on this subject, she agreed with me not to see pension funds and finance invest the sector. As long as they take care of socks or laces, because we can always produce them. But the fish, they don't care completely: all that matters to them is to collect as much as possible, so much so that in the end there is no more! This eminent person, whose name I do not mention so as not to appropriate her talent and authority, great sailor, a woman, told me that she fully agreed with the idea of de-nancing the economy. After green rule and ecological planning, it is therefore necessary to involve workers, because they are able to refine and improve production processes. Of course, of all this, there is nothing in the law. Of course. The place of the workers? Zero. Their contribution to collective intelligence? Not a word! What we find, on the other hand, is new legal definitions that are only used to endorse the status quo. There is also a need to stabilize workers. No more precarious jobs! There are only the brutes who believe that it is because fear is holding the worker down that he will be more productive and more punctual. That's not true! Stress is the enemy of good production. At the beginning of capitalism, capitalists tried to keep the workers at work. The first company regulations prohibited bringing ladders to work to prevent workers from making the wall! It took a century of body dressing for people to cling to work. That was the concern of the time. Today, it's the opposite: we think that by frightening people, threatening them to throw them out, they're going to work better. It's a total mistake. Stabilize workers and stabilize production and its quality. Finally, it is necessary to defunnanciarize. Why don't you accept our amendment on this subject? I see that it fills our colleague Jean-Michel Jacques with hilarity. It's funny, indeed... Definanciarization means limiting voting rights in the company according to the duration of the investment. Mr. Minister, it should be fine with you! Isn't that a good idea?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u355	Develop, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u356	This idea has been implemented in all kinds of countries. Still recently, a right-wing government in Brazil created a security deposit: if you came to the country and invested a thousand, you had to leave fifty in a deposit – that you wouldn't see again if you were going to camp for three years. It was a way of forcing capital to invest on a sustainable basis. This idea of limiting voting rights according to the duration of an investment was not born in a leftist colloquium: it was the former great boss of Saint-Gobain who proposed it. Because the great industrial captains of this period saw the production apparatus destroyed before their eyes by the financialization! People are coming, who have no interest in a box, who don't even know what it's producing, pension funds, mutuals, or I don't know what... But yes, that's how it happens, you know these trades well, colleagues! And these people decide, depending on the profitability, whether they leave the money, if they withdraw it, if they impose absolutely drastic conditions on the staff who run the company to obtain higher and higher rates of profit, if they recover from the cash they borrowed to make a LBO, and so many other wonders of what we dare call the financial industry and which, in our view, is a pure and simple looting... Correlation of voting rights in private companies with the duration of the investment is a definancialization measure. Prohibiting that a company distributes more in dividends than it amassed in the year is a definancialization measure. This would prevent them from borrowing to pay dividends when they cannot take them from their surpluses, which some companies had to do in our country only because they were afraid of the pension fund that held them to the throat. Here's another concrete proposal: you see that I'm not talking to you about collectivizing or nationalizing all the capital! I'm talking about doing with capital what we do with all the freedoms. There is no absolute freedom: all freedoms are framed. And it is because they are framed that they are freedoms, otherwise it is the law of the strongest. The freedom of capital, especially financial capital, must be regulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u357	It reminds me of the gulag...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u358	I didn't hear you, Congressman. But I would have liked to know the reason for your hilarity earlier, on a subject like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u359	It was your attacks on freedom that made me laugh. Or rather, they made me think of other violations of freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u360	You know, there's a form of arrogance...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u361	Which side?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u362	...that is to think that it is never time to talk about the fundamental problems. I respect the minister's point of view – I know him, it's not mine. Our two visions of the world oppose each other, and I say to you now: if you do not defnanciate production in this country, it will collapse. All those who have invented that the service economy was the future of the French economy see what situation we are in. The industry accounts for just 11% of the total of what we produce, while the same ratio reaches 23% in Germany – since you quote the Germans every five minutes, which seems to embody the perfect model of what should be done. Everyone who has dreamed of a service economy that makes it possible to make up the GDP accounts sees what situation we are in. Look at the GDP of the United States of America, you will see that agriculture and industry, i.e. real production, are ultra-minorities compared to the service industry! Look at what happened with the UK and Brexit: it will not be enough to harden the tone to bring the City to Paris hoping that this masks the GDP accounts and the disappearance of the industry! I made a series of proposals. We would like to have your answer on the place of finance and its prominent role in production, as the leader of production. In your text, you do the opposite of what we propose. You create new rights for the expansion of pension funds by trying to make it look like it will help people improve their pensions. Certainly, under the current conditions, this is the case, but who can believe that money travels over time, and that the funds accumulated in this way will be used for anything other than LBOs? The pension funds will invest in the conditions I have just described, and the fact that they are French pension funds does not change the harmful nature of their actions! You will then find yourself in the situation we observe all over the world: at every financial crisis, what jumps first are these pension funds and this fictitious accumulation. Minister, if we look at recent history, the crisis of capitalism that once occurred every twenty or thirty years now comes every ten years. We are on the eve of a new general crisis in the global financial economy. Everyone says it, everyone writes it, because all the signs are there. And this is the time you choose to expand the sphere, influence and means of the financial economy. It's a total mistake! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If a company law was needed, it would have had to deal with its way of assuming its social responsibility, its patriotic responsibility, its ecological responsibility, and not the umpteenth DIY intended to promote the interests of some of whom, for totally metaphysical reasons, you continue to think that their selfishness is the engine of the world, when we believe that this engine is self-help.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u363	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-09-25-E2014.u364	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on enterprise growth and transformation. The meeting is adjourned.
