ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u1	I should like to inform the Assembly that Mr Franck Riester, Mr Marc Fesneau, Mrs Christelle Dubos and Mr Gabriel Attal, appointed members of the Government by decree of 16 October 2018, were replaced respectively by Ms Patricia Lemoine, Mr Stéphane Baudu, Mr Pascal Lavergne and Ms Florence Provendier. I should also like to inform the Assembly that, on 16 November at midnight, Mr Grégory Galbadon's term of office as a Member of Parliament and Mr Stéphane Travert's reappointment, whose government functions ended by decree of 16 October 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u2	The next item is the discussion, after the expedited procedure has begun, of the bill, adopted by the Senate, of programming 2018-2022 and of reform for justice (Nos. 1349 and 1396) and of the organic bill, adopted by the Senate, on strengthening the organization of courts (No. 1350, 1397). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u3	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u4	Justice is a magnificent and extraordinary word: it represents an ideal that everyone carries in itself, a horizon that every society strives to achieve and a value for which we constantly struggle. But justice is also an institution, made up of a community of women and men who, every day, despite the difficulties, obstacles and harshness of their task, welcome our fellow citizens, protect them, punish them when necessary, give everyone the justice to which he is entitled in a democratic State. On the eve of this debate on the reform that I have the honour to propose to you on behalf of the Government, it is to those women and men who have made the personal choice to commit themselves to justice that I wish to address my first words to thank them for their daily work in the service of this institution that guarantees social peace. Making justice a priority: this is the commitment made by candidate Emmanuel Macron during his election campaign and renewed by the Prime Minister in his policy speech in July 2017. The draft law on the planning and reform of the justice system, as well as the accompanying draft organic law, reflect the fulfilment of that promise. This reform of the justice system responds to an old, clear and shared observation: French society undergoing profound changes, the state redefines its missions and public services are modernising. Justice cannot escape these transformations: it must face new challenges that reflect the evolution of our society, and appropriate new tools in the context of the digital revolution, with hope and sometimes uncertainty. In order to render the best possible service to citizens, justice cannot remain on the edge of the road, indifferent to what is playing around it. How could she, moreover, know about all human activities? But it must also embody stability: that of our values and that of the State. To that end, French justice must be strengthened and adapted. To strengthen itself, it needs means that can make up for an obvious delay; The Government is responding to this need by deploying a very large budget for justice. But the deployment of resources, if it is indispensable, cannot be sufficient to meet the challenges before us. To strengthen itself, justice must also be reformed by adapting to the needs of the litigants. On the basis of this observation, my ambition is simple – if some will find it modest, I believe it essential on the contrary –: I hope that the French will feel listened to, protected and taken into consideration by our entire judicial system. And I have a deep conviction – in a sort of visceral sense – that justice will be more credible if it is made more understandable to citizens and provides timely solutions to the daily problems they face. It is this conviction that I wanted to instill in these texts. The reform that I am presenting to you is based on three pillars: it is comprehensive and concrete; it was built for the justiciable; It devotes significant resources to justice. As soon as I joined the Chancery, I made a choice, that of a comprehensive and concrete reform. Globale, because the first text that is proposed to you combines means – it is a law of programming – and changes in procedures, methods and organisation – is a law of reform of the justice system. Concretely, this reform also intends to be so, because it is based pragmatically on the proposals on the ground, with respect for the unsurpassable principles such as the guarantee of rights. I did not wish to address this reform to the prism of exclusively ideological considerations. My will is to implement principles that will have a direct and rapid effect on daily justice. Undoubtedly, this reform is part of an objective of protection: each of the provisions provided for is aimed at protecting society, the citizen and the individual. It is this will alone that has animated me in the construction of the project that I submit to you. The second characteristic of this reform is to have been built with the actors and for the justiciable. As I have said on several occasions, I organised, from October 2017 to January 2018, from October 2017 to January 2018, a large consultation – the works of justice – that allowed to hear from all the actors in the justice system and to bring forward proposals from the ground. Discussions were then held with all stakeholders. I wanted to listen to the proposals, understand the arguments and answer them, but without ever abandoning the initial ambition that I have just made clear. Reform always provokes reactions, it is inevitable: some express fears about change; others have new aspirations. These fears and aspirations are not always converging, far from it, depending on whether one puts oneself from the point of view of lawyers, magistrates or elected officials on the ground. That is why, as I reiterate here, before you, this reform is not intended to give prominence to such or such actors, to such or such a profession in the judicial world. It does not neglect anyone's point of view, but it intends to overlook these particular interests with a single concern, a single compass: the interest of the litigants, that is to say, the general interest. It's my role and more, it's my duty. It was in this spirit that I introduced these two bills in the Senate and introduced them today before you. The last feature of this reform is that it devotes important resources to justice. Again, this is a government priority. We need means to invest and recruit staff to ensure quality justice. It is in the interest of a five-year programming law, which offers the necessary visibility, prospects and guarantees. The resources involved are considerable. A first step was taken with the 2018 Finance Act, where the justice budget had risen by 3.9% and with the creation of 1100 jobs. A second step came with the 2019 budget: the increase in our resources is accelerating, with an increase in appropriations of 4.5% and the creation of 1300 jobs. The programming bill before you provides for means the importance of which must be measured in line with the budgetary discipline to which the entire government has applied: the budget of justice will increase by 1.6 billion in five years, from 6.7 billion to 8.3 billion euros – to more than 9 billion if pensions are included – an increase of 24%, which will allow us to recruit 6500 additional recruits. We can always propose even higher figures. That was the position of the Senate, and that is the meaning of certain amendments that we will consider. I see this as a way of expressing support for justice, and I am pleased with it. But we must also be realistic and take into account the powerful effort of this government, in a constrained budgetary context. From the use of these means, we can expect an improvement in the working conditions of judges and staff, a resorption of vacancies and the possibility of forming real teams around magistrates. This budget will also allow us to move from the era of computer science to that of digital technology. This is a truly strategic element for me: it is the challenge we must face to ensure that justice is truly up to the expectations of both judges and litigants. We will therefore commit more than half a billion euros in funding for the digital revolution. Finally, these means will naturally be deployed in the prison sector, with the construction of 15,000 prison places, of which 7,000 will be delivered and 8,000 committed by 2022. The text also proposes provisions to speed up the construction of prisons by reducing certain procedures. I would add that the programming bill provides for the establishment of twenty closed educational centres, which will be one of the possible answers, among a range of proposals, to the issue of juvenile offenders, which we will have to discuss in more detail. But beyond the means, this bill is above all a reform text with ambitious content, built around six axes. The first focuses on civil procedure, which concerns everyday justice, that of daily life; Sometimes not spectacular, however, it is essential. My project is clear: we need to simplify procedures, facilitate people's lives and refocus the judge on his or her core business, while maintaining human justice, protecting and close to people, a justice of better quality, which considers each and every one of the litigants better. That is the meaning of the provisions of the bill. Simplifying the procedures involves, for example, reducing the methods of referral to the civil court or through a more fluid divorce procedure, thanks to the division by two of their duration, which currently exceeds two years. I stress this because it is emblematic of what I want for justice. Divorce is sometimes the first contact of our fellow citizens with justice. Yesterday, it was considered that the procedure before the courts had to take a long time to be truly certain that the marriage could not ultimately be saved. This has resulted in inappropriate procedures for current situations, when people want their situation to be clarified and stabilized quickly. However, changing these rules does not mean sacrificing protective procedures, especially in matters where inequalities between women and men remain strong. That is why I propose to reform, to remove unnecessary procedures, while maintaining protective measures. Your Committee on Laws approved this approach and even strengthened it, under the leadership of your rapporteur, Laetitia Avia, and Jean Terlier; I thank them for that. Facilitating people's lives also means eliminating unnecessary formalities, such as the protection of vulnerable adults, while further strengthening their rights. We have made proposals with regard to their fundamental rights, including the exercise of the right to vote. They join those of the LaREM group, with several initiatives taken notably by Caroline Abadie. The dematerialization of the small disputes of everyday life is also a way to explore and a new ability to offer to our fellow citizens, for greater simplicity. The dematerialization of payment orders will, for example, allow for an order to be obtained more quickly, while allowing everyone the opportunity to appeal to a local court. Facilitating people's lives also means allowing separated people to quickly recover their alimony, without having to follow the meandering of sometimes too slow court proceedings. Many women are affected by this situation. That is why we propose to experiment with a mechanism that has proved its worth in other countries, while maintaining access to the judge. Adjustments are possible so that the judge can suspend the decisions of the FCA when this is necessary. The Government will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u6	Refocusing the judge on his core business also requires developing amicable settlement of disputes, as we propose. This also implies that we take into account these new tools, which are legal platforms, but that we frame them with a high level of guarantees for their users. Again, adapting to the world that is ours is an obvious necessity, but not at any price. Finally, to ensure a better quality of justice is to propose, for example, to extend the scope of compulsory representation per lawyer. This will apply not to disputes of less than EUR 10000 but to some complex disputes. With these measures, ladies and gentlemen, and many others, the solicited expertise of the lawyer will be better directed in the interest of the client, and the work of the judge will be facilitated: he will be refocused on his office, and the resolution of disputes will no longer go exclusively through him, in order to pacify and empower society. As far as civil proceedings are concerned, I must note that the Senate has come back to many of the measures proposed, and many of them have been eliminated from their substance. Your Law Commission has re-established the ambition of the original draft by specifying the terms when it deems it necessary. I can only rejoice. The second pillar of the reform is criminal procedure. In this regard, the last decades have too often been marked by ideological debates and swings that destabilize the daily functioning of justice. I definitely took another side. I didn't want to give in to the fantasy of the big night of criminal proceedings. On the contrary, I wanted to build practical solutions based on the findings of the field, thanks to the work carried out jointly with the Ministry of the Interior for the investigation phase and with all the justice personnel for the other phases. I stress this: it was with both the security forces and the magistrates that we wanted to think of concrete solutions to real problems. This has not always been the case in the past. I thank Gérard Collomb, with whom this work was harmonious, and Christophe Castaner, who succeeded him. Crime takes on new forms that require more responsiveness and simplicity in action. I stress that we need to be more agile in order to better protect the French. The objective I am pursuing is to achieve more efficiency, both for litigants and for those involved in the justice system, without sacrificing the guarantee of rights. To that end, it was necessary to simplify the work of the actors, to better protect the victims and to combat everyday crime. Simplifying the work of the actors, whether they are investigators or magistrates, is indeed a priority. That is why I want to move towards a full digitisation of the procedures. This is also why the text proposes a whole series of harmonisations, for example on thresholds for triggering certain procedures. Having clearer texts and procedures means making action more effective for the benefit of our citizens. Better protection of victims is also one of my main concerns. The online complaint will be a real step forward, especially for victims of sexual or conjugal violence, who sometimes hesitate to cross the threshold of a police station or gendarmerie to file a complaint. In the same spirit, I propose, through this text, the experimentation of the departmental criminal court, now a "criminal court", at the initiative of the delegation for women's rights and its rapporteur, Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, in order to avoid the correction of certain crimes, in particular rapes. Crimes must be tried as crimes; It is a key element of judicial truth. I recall that, for more than thirty years, terrorist crimes have been tried by professional magistrates; I do not feel that this is a degraded response to the judgment given by a classical court of assizes. It is also in order to better protect the victims that I have proposed the establishment of a court responsible for compensation for the personal injury of victims of terrorist acts. From this mechanism, adopted by the Senate and specified by your rapporteur, Didier Paris, one can expect a better treatment of the compensation of victims, which will at the same time discharge the criminal court from the compensation procedure, without of course excluding the victims from the criminal trial. This measure echoes the creation of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, which intends to respond to the unfortunately lasting installation of this threat in our landscape; It is an essential measure to ensure the security of the French. Fighting crime in everyday life is also a necessity. Examples are the introduction of flat-rate fines for the use of narcotics and the extension of the ban on appearances. I welcome the work carried out by the Committee on Laws on these issues, particularly under the leadership of Eric Poulliat, which has made it possible to refine the system on lump-sum fines. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from all those who felt that this text did a good job for investigators at the expense of the guarantee of rights. I would like to give two answers to their concerns. First, protecting the French is an essential mission of justice. Let us not forget that it is because criminal justice is doing its job that we live in a democratic society. It is even the basis for this, by excluding any idea of private revenge and by basing punishment on the principle of legality. Secondly, the constitutional guarantees are there, and I have taken great care of them. Your rapporteur, Didier Paris, has taken care of this, your Committee on Laws has taken care of it, and the Council of State has amply confirmed this in its opinion. The strengthening of the powers of the investigators is the responsibility of the magistrates of the prosecutor's office and of the judge of freedoms and detention to monitor the acts of investigation. I would like to remind you once again of the unity of the judicial authority, in which the prosecutors are first and foremost independent judges and, as such, also guarantors of individual freedom. As for the judges of freedoms and detention, I do not believe that the controls they exercise are of a purely formal nature. By the intervention of this statutory judge, the guarantee of rights is effectively guaranteed. On the penal side of the text, the Senate held a stand backwards in relation to the ambition of the project and the work carried out with magistrates, police officers and gendarmes to respond to practical problems. Your committee has restored the great balance of the text, thanks to the proposals of your rapporteur and to several initiatives of the LaREM Group, under the leadership of Stéphane Mazars, which have even made some improvements. The third axis of the bill redefines the meaning and effectiveness of the sentence. Our aim here is to better punish offences, to better protect society and to better reintegrate them. This is an essential project, which must be understood in relation to the prison plan I recently presented. That is why, considering that every offence deserves punishment, I propose a new scale of penalties, designed to restore order in our sentencing law. The penalties imposed must in fact be real, useful and autonomous penalties, whether they are, for example, work of general interest or detention at home under electronic supervision – the electronic bracelet – which we propose to develop. For prison sentences, the basic premise is simple: those who must be detained must actually go there; Those who have nothing to do with it must be punished, but in another way, in particular by the autonomous penalties to which I was referring at the moment. I propose that imprisonment, which will no longer be the only reference penalty, be dealt with in the following way: below a month, prison sentences will be prohibited; between one and six months, the penalty shall, as a matter of principle, be carried out outside a detention facility; between six months and one year, the court will have the possibility to impose that the sentence is carried out in detention, but it may also refer to an arrangement; for more than one year, the prison sentences will be carried out without any adjustment ab initio. What's my goal? It is twofold: to put an end to short-term imprisonment, which is very often unnecessary, desocializing and nourishing recidivism, but also to ensure the effective execution of sentences handed down. Today, the failure to execute prison sentences makes our criminal justice system incomprehensible to both victims and offenders. That is why I propose that the threshold for the adjustment of prison sentences be lowered from two years to one year, by amending article 723-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I could also refer to the proposal to experiment with a single personality dossier, which will be extremely useful in this context. You will have understood, the effectiveness, for me, does not consist in brandishing the prison as the alpha and omega of our criminal policy. Nor is it intended to empty prisons, in the name of an angelic vision of society. These all-fact patterns prevent us from seeing reality as it is. This is also the fact that your Law Commission has been working intensively on prison issues for several months under the leadership of its president, Yaël Braun-Pivet. And this fact goes beyond the traditional partisan divisions. The Senate has recognized itself in these overall objectives but has adopted an operational view that is different from that of the bill that I am dealing with, in particular, the shortest sentences. Your Committee on Laws has adhered to the philosophy of punishment that I have proposed and has re-established the original mechanism, reworking some points very usefully. I am thinking in particular of the work of general interest, of which Didier Paris is one of the most ardent promoters. The scheme was strengthened and extended, for example, to companies whose statutes would define a mission to pursue social and environmental objectives. Adjustments for overseas countries, proposed by Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer, have also been adopted – this is a happy initiative. The fourth axis of the bill provides for the development of the judicial organization. It is a matter of reform, without brutalizing. I didn't draw a map; I wanted to propose a method based on dialogue. My project is therefore based on a twofold concern. Proximity, first of all: the justiciable must, I believe deeply, have simple access to justice, which requires physical proximity, but also the development of digital technology. The quality of the public service of justice, then: the dispersion of means and the lack of specialization for some complex litigations are not necessarily the guarantee of effective justice, and we want to remedy it. As soon as the courts were opened, I said that there would be no closure of a place of justice, and I keep my word. However, we need to improve our judicial organization, which requires three main developments. The first concerns the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. The present text provides for this administrative grouping, which will give rise to the judicial court, which will henceforth be, for greater clarity, the counterpart of the administrative court. Thus, the organization of first instance justice will be simpler in the eyes of the litigant, who will now have only one court and one referral procedure. All sites will be maintained, I repeat here, as the court will work together with its local courts – the current courts of jurisdiction. In order to ensure community justice in matters of daily litigation, I have decided, following the consultation that I have conducted, to retain a judge on protection disputes, responsible for guardianship, over-indebtedness, consumer credit and housing leases. This statutory specialized judge will deal with disputes identified as issues of social or economic vulnerability. Finally, in order to optimize the handling of disputes and to adapt the system to the situation of each jurisdiction, the heads of courts in cities where there is currently only one district court will be able to refer disputes to the latter in addition to those for which he is currently responsible. The second development of our judicial organization concerns departments with several courts of major jurisdiction. I would like to reiterate clearly before you that the courts of grand instance – future courts of justice – in the departments where there are several, will all be maintained. The Heads of Courts will be able, after local consultation, to propose the creation of specialised centres of competence in these courts. They will judge, at the departmental level, some specialized, technical disputes, which are small in volume. The idea is to divide these areas of competence among the IMTs of the same department, to strengthen the competence of judges where it is useful and to improve accordingly the time frame for judgement. I have taken note of the adoption by your committee, on the joint initiative of your rapporteur and Denis Sommer, of the amendment on interdepartmental tribunals. It covers only the particular situation of Belfort-Montbéliard and must remain confined to this specific case. The third development is that of the courts of appeal. The bill envisages experimenting, in administrative regions with several courts of appeal, with the exercise by one of them of the functions of animation and coordination as well as the specialization of litigation, in accordance with the above-mentioned model. Your Law Commission has proposed to increase the number of regions affected by these experiments. In this area, the right level of action must be found, allowing this experiment to be made useful while maintaining the experimental character. I know your rapporteur, Laetitia Avia, as attentive as I am to this balance. I have no doubt that the parliamentary debate will achieve the right one. The organic bill, for its part, draws the consequences of the ordinary law with regard to the merger of IT and ITTs that I have just mentioned. I now turn to the last two areas of reform. The fifth is aimed at diversifying the treatment of juvenile offenders, the guiding idea of offering a range of diverse solutions for these young people. In addition to the establishment of twenty closed educational centres, the bill makes it possible to better prepare young people for their gradual departure from these structures, including their return to their families, whose effects they seek to mitigate, which can be brutal and very destabilizing. A day-care educational measure will also be introduced on an experimental basis, the third route between placement in a closed educational centre and support in an open environment. Juvenile justice is a subject that deserves to be dealt with in a reasoned and measured manner. The problems are real. The texts and procedures deserve to be re-evaluated. Actions deserve to be taken. However, I do not want postures to prevail, as they have always resulted in the impossibility of reform. Without angelism or demagogy again, it is a matter of taking a serious approach in order to face and answer the questions. If very ad hoc adjustments are still possible at this stage, more comprehensive work needs to be done. I know that Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier, as part of the information mission entrusted to them, are working on this subject. It may be useful to build on this work in order to meet the needs of society and the expectations of our fellow citizens in this regard. We will have this debate in the coming week. The sixth axis of this text deals with the procedure before the administrative courts. At the request of the judges themselves, the draft law provides for the recruitment of legal assistants to strengthen judicial teams. It also provides for enhanced enforcement of administrative decisions through injunctions and periodic penalty payments. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that I submit to you is both ambitious and modest. It is ambitious because it is systemic, dealing with various parts of the proceedings before the courts. It is also so because it has as its sole objective the improvement of the protection of the justiciable and the image of justice among our citizens. It is modest, however, because, as I know, other projects will have to be opened. As soon as you pass the bill – if you adopt it – and while ensuring its implementation, I would like, among other things, to undertake a major reform of access to the rights of the most vulnerable and to the issue of legal aid. In my view, this is a major issue, which requires time and consultation, particularly with other legal professions. I could refer to other subjects, other projects that deserve to be carried out, but I prefer to go back to the text that I am presenting to you. On the eve of our debates, I thank the Members who took part in the thirty-three hours of debate in committee, in a constructive atmosphere. I pay tribute to your rapporteurs for the quality of their work, their commitment and the dialogue we have been conducting for several months, as part of a genuine effort to co-build the reform. I also thank the majority members, those of the LaREM group, led by Jean Terlier and Stéphane Mazars, and those of the MODEM group, led by Laurence Vichnevsky and Erwan Balanant. Finally, I welcome the high profile of members of the opposition who are familiar with the subject; They have defended their proposals with conviction, in a climate that honours our institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am very pleased because I believe that justice must be a subject of debate and not of struggle. If there were to be a fight, he should bring us together in order to better serve the people and justice of our country. I think that's what the French are waiting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u7	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u8	Like many of you, I love our courthouses. I like these places where the guarantee and exercise of our rights and freedoms are played, these long corridors and high ceilings full of history and symbols, like the more modern structures reflecting the adaptation of justice to its time. Finally, I like the people who are there: lawyers, magistrates, clerks, personnel, litigants. However, recognize that few of us like to go to court; The majority of our fellow citizens are doing the better because they are not dealing with a judge. For justice is synonymous with conflict but also, for many of them, with heaviness, slowness and archaism. It seems to be a place and a tool of which only the knowing, better armed, master the arcanes as well as the ins and outs. The bill aims to combat a certain breach of the relationship between our fellow citizens and justice, to restore a bond of trust and fully restore the public service of justice in its role as a pillar of our democracy. To this end, it foresees an unprecedented investment in the justice budget, which will increase by almost 25 per cent during the quinquennium. Thus, 6500 jobs will be created, a construction plan of 15,000 prison places will be conducted and half a billion euros will be invested in digital transformation. Of course, we will want more and more for justice. But here I welcome the choice of the Government, which, through this ambitious budget, places justice at the top of the quinquennium. In addition, the bill aims to improve the readability of our judicial organization, the act of referral to the judge, which will be unique, instead of judgment, the judicial court, merging the courts of procedure and the courts of main instance into a single entity for each territory. In this way, people will no longer be returned from one city to another so that they may seize the right judge. It will suffice to go to the court closest to home – in any case, the judicial court. The registries and services then ensure that the files are forwarded to the competent entity. This is a simpler, more readable and close justice. This new territorial organization has stirred up confusion, on the one hand because of the irrational fear of court closures – while the guard of the seals has repeatedly reminded, and still a few moments ago, that no place of justice will be closed – and, on the other hand, because of the no less ideological opposition to any specialisation of judicial courts as well as courts of appeal. It may be less of a specialization than a combination of specific litigation, low volumetricity and high technicality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u9	It's dialectics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u10	You know each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u11	This grouping will be carried out with the first concerned: the magistrates who, on the ground, identify niche disputes whose treatment needs to be improved. With regard to the civilian aspect of the reform, his heart lay in a change in our report to the judge, who must be fully devoted to his task. It does not consist of keeping the agenda of the parties or offering them a place of expression or dialogue, but rather of deciding a dispute, if necessary, and ensuring the protection of rights, if threatened. In order to do so, the bill and the many amendments adopted in committee are aimed at dejudicating the many procedures for which the passage before the judge is not only not necessary but is a waste of time, availability and efficiency for all stakeholders. Civil registration, consent to the LDC – medically assisted reproduction –, apostilles and legalization, authorization of drinking flows: all these procedures for the realization of which the presence of a magistrate has little added value. Thus, the protected adults will now be able to carry out numerous daily management acts without the prior authorization of the judge. Above all, they will be able to enjoy their fundamental rights – to vote, to marry, to pacify or to divorce – like everyone else. I have heard that such a diversion process would raise two alleged difficulties. The first would be in its very principle, when it comes to family matters – in this case the revision of the amounts of maintenance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u13	With regard to an experiment with perfectly defined contours, I will call on us to legislate with reason and pragmatism, simply answering this simple question: how can maintenance be adapted effectively to changes in income and situation? The second point of vigilance is the cost of diversion, which should not be disproportionate or prejudiced to litigants. Here I would like to thank the Government, which has lifted the pledge of the amendment that I tabled in committee on this point, thus allowing the exemption of prospective parents from the registration fees in the context of the consent to a LDC before the notary – it will be 125 euros less to pay. Changing the relationship to the judge also means developing the culture of amicable settlement of disputes, at any time in the proceedings, whenever the judge considers that it may be appropriate for the parties to take a step aside in order to find a solution to their dispute, apart from the judicial system. Mediation will also be a necessary prerequisite for the engagement of any daily litigation. However, if an attempt at conciliation is to be encouraged, it cannot become a constraint which would considerably add to already lengthy and cumbersome judicial proceedings for the parties concerned. I am referring here to divorce, a concrete manifestation of what our right is capable of creating as delays, waiting, complexity and superimposition of procedures, with a real penitence for these families. I will note two major developments adopted in the committee: a hearing to determine interim measures will be held from the outset of the proceedings, unless the parties agree otherwise; the period to characterize the permanent alteration of the marital relationship will be reduced from two years to one year. In the course of the meeting, we will have to provide some clarifications in order to refine this new system of litigation divorce. The bill is also aimed at getting into the 21st century by initiating the digital transformation of justice, with three significant advances, for which we have found balance in commission. First of all, it must be recognised that legaltech exists and offers useful services; But these technologies need to be better regulated and certified. All court decisions must then be made public, free of charge, in open data, in conditions that guarantee the security and privacy of everyone. An amendment by the Group of the European People's Party will also prohibit any profiling of magistrates, because that is not our view of transparent justice. Finally, it is necessary to allow dematerialized judgments for orders to pay, and procedures without a hearing with the agreement of the parties: it is a necessary innovation for the 85% of litigants for whom digital is part of daily life and who are waiting for a modernisation of justice. But we do not forget the 15% of French people affected by what is called "illectronism", for which alternatives and physical reception will be maintained. I will conclude my speech by addressing some of the provisions of the penal block, of which my colleague Didier Paris is rapporteur, but which I am particularly interested in, because they concern social problems on which we are regularly asked. A few months ago, we were discussing here the fight against the correction of rapes. The creation of a professional criminal court, more rapid and more capable of dealing with these crimes, is one of the answers, among others, that we bring to this question. We know that we need to help victims gain a better understanding of justice. The possibility of filing a complaint online is one of the answers to these questions. It will prevent social networks from being the perfect place to reveal attacks. Speaking of social networks, the introduction of the simplified procedure of the criminal order will make it possible to better punish the perpetrators of racist, anti-Semitic or LGBT-phobes statements, in the continuity of the recommendations that I have been able to submit to the Prime Minister. It is therefore a rich, dense text that responds to real needs on which we are about to debate and vote. I would like to welcome the quality of the debates in committee; they have enriched the text and fed into the amendments that will be presented at the meeting. I can only wish for debates of the same height during this week that we are going to spend together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Is this reform the great night of justice? I cannot answer that question, which has been asked many times. But I can say that it is ambitious and that with it we stop legislating only to repair the past; We are legislating to prepare for the future, that of justice accessible to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u14	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u15	Our fellow citizens want a strong and protective state, public services that work, are easily accessible and respond to their demands without delay. They also want, and it is not necessarily paradoxical, that individual rights, in a society that often tends to fall back on itself, be the cardinal point of any public action. Of course, justice does not escape these multiple demands, whose respect is a condition of the bond of trust that unites it with the people and builds its image, in good or bad. It is fully connected to the real; It is part of the life of the French who, at some point in their lives, will have to cross the door of a court, to push the door of a lawyer or a police service, to assert personal rights. Our justice must no doubt adapt to the daily lives of our compatriots, without asking them to do the opposite. It must be simpler, more accessible, clearer, more efficient, while maintaining a very high quality requirement. In my view, the Government's draft submitted to you fully responds to this request – I could say to this order – from the French. Let us be clear: this is not a revolution, because the value of our principles is widely tested; Rather, it is an adaptation, a modernisation of methods, a simplification of processes. This vision applies, without restriction, to criminal matters, of which I have the honour to be your rapporteur. The text seeks to really simplify the criminal procedure without giving up in any way the guarantee of rights. For example, there are numerous simplification and harmonisation measures in the text relating to the rules of jurisdiction of JPOs – judicial police officers –, police custody, video conferencing, or special investigative techniques. Others, more innovative, allow the prosecution of investigative measures for a very short period of time after an opening of information, like what already existed in the field of terrorism, or create a deferred appearance procedure. These measures do not necessarily speak to citizens, who, fortunately, except for a few of them, are only rarely confronted with them. But they make sense in the eyes of the investigative services, of which they are, on the other hand, the daily. The bill aims to relieve them as much as possible of the tasks that are not at the heart of their efforts to protect the population. It is the same logic that prevails in the distribution of roles among judicial actors: a prosecutor's office that is strong enough to respond to emergencies and to take its full place in the fight against crime, whether small or large; a judge of freedoms and detention, judge of the seat, totally independent and ensuring by his control the guarantee of rights, respect for the balance between repression and individual freedoms; an investigating judge who remains, whatever is said of it, a fundamental element of our penal system, but whose importance and value deserve to be refocused on its most essential tasks; lawyers whose role, which is essential to the guarantee of rights, is absolutely not diminished. Your Law Commission has worked to dispel the concerns of the Senate in these areas. It also considered that the Government's explanations, particularly those which were frequent, long and precise, provided by Ms. Custody of Seals, as well as the guarantees contained in the text, were sufficient to restore the initial provisions on police custody, the extension of the competence of single judges, video conferencing – taking into account the restriction accepted by the Government with regard to pre-trial detention –, deferred appearance, etc. It also found them sufficient to reduce the scope of the lawyer's notice of transportation or his presence during a single search operation. The filing of an online complaint for all types of offences, contrary to Senate restrictions, is a major step forward in improving the judicial path of victims. The complaints, which create rights, will fully meet the needs for the treatment of repetitive offences and will allow some victims who hesitate, for many reasons, to physically cross the threshold of a police station or gendarmerie, to initiate the judicial process. Of course, this new procedure will not prevent direct contact with the JPO responsible for investigating and characterising the facts – the text has been completed on these points – and all the necessary precautions for the preservation of the evidence will be taken by regulation. In this spirit, an amendment by your rapporteur, with the agreement of the Government, extends the reform undertaken. The aim is to provide for the possibility, from now on and for the near future, of digitising the whole procedure from one end of the criminal chain to the other. This is a much-anticipated step forward by judicial actors, who will see their work greatly simplified. A powerful project group, bringing together the services of the Chancery and the Ministry of the Interior, is in place. The keeper of the seals recalled that half a billion euros will be spent on this operation. The bill also seeks to better protect and combat terrorism and organized crime. At the initiative of the Government and despite the rejection by the Senate, which had only accepted improvements in the existing judicial system, a national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, or PNAT, would be established, with central powers and capacities to mobilize judges, in Paris and throughout the national territory. It is a tool, an indispensable strike force because of the threats that continue to weigh in France. It will improve our intelligence, cohesion and action capacity, including beyond our borders. Protecting people from the terrorist threat remains, ladies and gentlemen, a top priority for the State, which is fully taken into account in this text, as illustrated by the creation of the PNAT. It is equally essential to facilitate the journey of the victims themselves. That is why we are going to create the judge for the compensation of victims of terrorist attacks, or JIVAT, who, in parallel or rather as a complement to the criminal courts, who must refocus on their task, will ensure that the compensation system is harmonised and strengthened. As Mrs. the Keeper of the Seals has explained at length, the project, beyond the procedural rules – which for some are only specialists' business – bears the mark of a stronger, broader ambition. It's nothing less than changing mindsets. For the French, prison is still, too often, the real sanction or even the only possible sanction. This is probably true of serious crimes and offences; It is much less so for minor attacks and when the author's personality shows rehabilitation abilities and a real understanding of the social stigma attached to his act. In addition, there is a sense of justice that has lost its common sense and no longer fulfils its responsibilities. How can we explain that a sentence of two years' imprisonment is ultimately not carried out? How can we explain an automatic arrangement of sentences, managed by a magistrate different from the one who sentenced him? The penalty must be punishment, protect society and ensure the reintegration of the perpetrators. This implies that all punishments are considered to be of equal value in achieving these objectives, the difference being made only by applying the principle of individualization, the basis of our right. It is in order to recast this social pact that the Government proposes a rewrite of the scale of penalties to which your commission has fully adhered. It will no longer allow imprisonment for very short periods, which all too often results in the author's marginalization. It will make exceptional detention for less than six months and allow accommodation for up to one year. But any sentence of more than one year will have to be executed – this is the famous article 723-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is for this same purpose that the probationary stay is replenished and that the penalties under electronic supervision and the work of general interest are placed at their fair value. Differentiated modes of prosecution, such as a flat-rate fine, including a criminal offence, criminal composition or appearance on prior recognition of guilt, have their full meaning as appropriate and effective responses to crime. Of course, individualization in this new scale requires that the personality, the social environment and, where appropriate, the criminal path of the respondents be better understood and known as far upstream as possible. In this regard, the bill contains many provisions, such as capacity-building for personality investigations, caesures and the famous DUP, a unique personality file. I will not go back to the considerable financial efforts devoted, in this programming law, to the budget of justice; Mrs. Keeper of the Seals made extensive reference to this. The planned establishment of posts will be essential to sustain these structural changes. Similarly, while prison can no longer be the only response, it is still necessary to strengthen its reception capacity and improve prison conditions, sometimes far removed from standards and standards of dignity. This is the whole issue of the Government's two-phased prison plan. It is complemented by an approach of differentiation, which is obviously consistent with the reform, which will lead in particular to the opening of 2500 places in accompanying structures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, your rapporteur fully supports this project, which has long been initiated by the five courts and which has given rise to a great deal of consultation. Its overall balance is the result. It will make it possible to better serve the litigants and to carry out this great ambition for our justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u16	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u17	"Complex, inaccessible, confusing," these were the words I sometimes heard at the Restos du Coeur, when I was working in favour of access to justice for the poorest. From this commitment, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I have withdrawn the same conviction as that which I believe leads you to present to us this reform project: more humanity, more proximity, more efficiency are essential to bring citizens closer to the justice of the Republic. What we are committed to today is a profound transformation for justice at the service of the just, a justice that protects society. These issues deserve us to move forward together, to work together. That was the case in committee. In order to examine the two texts that you propose to us, Madam Keeper of the Seals, we have held nine meetings in your presence, representing thirty-three hours of exchange. Almost 1,000 amendments were discussed, 350 of which were adopted. This responsible and calmed debate was the provisional term of a long journey of consultation and reflection. As far as the Government is concerned, there were the justice projects, the proposals of which form the solid and innovative basis of this project. As far as we are concerned, MEPs from all sides have carried out several fact-finding missions: on the application of a flat-rate fine procedure to the offence of illicit use of narcotic drugs, on the regime of searches in detention, on the files made available to the security forces, on juvenile justice, on the fundamental rights of the adults protected, and on legal aid. There was also our work on detention, which, as you know, is of particular interest to me. Remember, just over a year ago, on November 6, 2017, law commissioners visited dozens of prisons across French territory. Despite the diversity of situations that we could observe, we quickly formulated a common diagnosis: it was urgent to provide multi-faceted answers to the difficulties of the prison world; It was necessary to give our support and our gratitude to the prison administration, which – it is an understatement – has not always received the attention it is entitled to expect. To this common diagnosis answers a common approach led to eight hands, with three of my vice-presidents: Stéphane Mazars, for the group La République en marche, Laurence Vichnievsky for the group MODEM and Philippe Gosselin for the group Les Républicaines. This approach, which involved all law commissioners, allowed us to value our convergences, rather than reflect our differences. In the words of Philippe Gosselin, it was a "collective work", trans-partisan, pragmatic, punctuated with numerous field visits and completed, on 17 October, by a meeting outside the walls of the Law Commission, at the Fresnes prison centre. Common diagnosis, common approach, and first fruits that we harvest together today. We will now have a panel of differentiated security establishments, from safest to lighter, suitable for all types of profiles. The construction of new establishments will be more systematically thought of according to the objectives assigned to them. The evaluation of care arrangements will be strengthened to better measure the effectiveness of our criminal policies. The situation of prisoners with psychiatric disorders will be better taken into account. These are, I believe, advances that we can welcome, while the subject of prison has been more often the subject of censure than of consensus. Rethinking the prison to better reintegrate: that is the goal we have set ourselves. By working for better reintegration, we will reduce recidivism and further protect society. We owe it to the French. That is why, when the prison doors open, it is necessary to ensure that the other doors do not close. I know that our work will continue in the same soothing climate that has always characterized it. I know that together we will monitor its implementation and ensure its evaluation, and I welcome it. This success is no coincidence. Isn't it a little bit in the collective approach that was ours that we have to look for its origins? Is there not a lesson to be learned, for us who are looking for ways to improve the quality of parliamentary work? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Philippe Gosselin also applauds]] Finally, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to thank you, who have listened to us throughout this work. I would also like to thank our two rapporteurs and in particular my Vice-Presidents and all the Law Commissioners for their investment. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the justice system and its actors, to whom we are providing ambitious budgetary programming and renewed resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u18	Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u19	The concept of justice is inseparable from the concept of democracy, which is intrinsic to the exercise of our Republic. Every democracy must have a judicial system that perfectly fulfils its office and does not replace the judge with the legislator or the legislator with the judge. Justice, our justice, is the only guarantee of equal rights, the essential foundation of our society, of our political organization. Equality is the common good of our freedom. More than any other principle, it must be ardently protected. We need to be able to correct variations in interpretation as much as possible, in order to preserve our equality before the law. Strengthening the judicial system is a reaffirmation of the strength of our democracy. Today, it seems necessary to reform judicial procedures in order to make judicial decisions more effective, to give more meaning to their tasks and to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens in the judge's decision. That is all the meaning of the bill you are wearing, Madam Keeper of the Seals. We can only welcome the ambition of this reform, which is capable of responding to the great challenges facing our democracy. If the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women wanted to take up this text, we must pay particular attention to the consequences of such a reform, which will affect the number of women and men on a daily basis. I am thinking here not only of the rights of women to the test of family separation cases in which justice intervenes, but also of the fight against sexual violence against women. Beyond civil and criminal proceedings, sometimes complex, let us not forget the social realities they cover. Let us not forget to take into account the inequalities that women experience on a daily basis, in order to work to reduce them in the application of the law. Every year, between 120000 and 130000 divorces are pronounced, half of them through litigation. In this context, I welcome the proposed procedure for simplifying divorces. This reform of divorce must be an opportunity to take better account of domestic violence. Recall that, of the 108000 victims of rape or attempted rape reported in 2017, 45% of the perpetrators were spouses or ex-spouses. Violence against women, therefore, unfortunately occurs largely within their homes or couples. It therefore seems essential to adapt procedures in cases of domestic or domestic violence. There is also a better definition of domestic violence in the civil code, as well as better training of staff. Divorce situations are complex, painful for both parties, but rarely favourable to women, who often find themselves more disadvantaged. While in some cases physical or psychological violence takes place, many divorces also bring economic inequalities. Women tend to take care of children and day-to-day tasks. This unequal distribution of work in the private sphere necessarily affects their economic empowerment, especially when it is known that women earn an average of 24 per cent less than men. Thus, according to INSEE figures, as a result of a breakdown or divorce, women experience a 20 per cent decline in their standard of living, compared with 3 per cent for men, despite the payment of social benefits and maintenance in case of child care. I would also like to point out that 380,000 minor children are affected each year by the divorce of their parents, 75 per cent of whom live with their mothers. The contribution to the maintenance and education of children is another fundamental issue, which raises tax issues that are often unfavourable to women. Similarly, children are a vulnerable target of domestic violence. The procedures must therefore be adapted, as must their rapid handling. The delegation to women's rights had focused its attention on that issue thanks to the essential, precise work carried out by our colleague Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, who had made twenty-seven recommendations in his information report. I welcome the progress that he has made in committee and that he will continue to defend in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us live up to the ambitions of equality between women and men that we have set ourselves, including in the event of separation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u20	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, rapporteur of the delegation for women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u21	At the heart of our society, there is a structural inequality against which we must all commit ourselves if we want the society of tomorrow to be better and more just. This inequality exists between women and men. I want to say this here in a clear way, in response to the words I can hear or read, here and there – often on social networks – that deny or minimize this reality, and even justify and defend it. These words, we must fight them. The reality of our society is that women, on an equal footing, earn on average 25 per cent less than men. The reality is that the separation of the couple accelerates inequalities and results in a 20% loss of purchasing power for women, compared to 3% for men – the consequences are also greatly felt at the time of retirement. The reality is that more than 75 per cent of single-parent families are headed by women, that one in five single-parent families is poor, and that 82 per cent are women with children, representing 1 million individuals. The reality is that, in our country in 2018, more than 280,000 women are victims of sexual and gender-based violence each year, and more than 80000 are victims of rape, with only 1% of rape being condemned, according to associations. This afternoon, again, Le Monde, based on work done by the Jean-Jaurès Foundation, also recalled that 86% of French women are affected by street harassment. This reality, that of the French company of 2018, is unbearable. We no longer hold it, and we want to do everything we can to change it. Behind these figures are millions of women's stories, lives and real experiences. If we are to put an end to these inequalities, we must never lose sight of them in the reform projects we are undertaking, particularly in the reform of our judicial system. It is with these realities in mind that the delegation to women's rights: several articles in the text directly address the issue of inequalities between women and men. I would like to pay tribute here to the quality of listening and the mobilisation of the seal guard, Mrs Nicole Belloubet, on this subject, as well as to those of my fellow rapporteurs, Mrs Laetitia Avia and Mr Didier Paris. This text proposes an ambitious reform to modernise our judicial system. I'm very pleased with that. In particular, we will simplify the lives of our fellow citizens by reducing the delays in proceedings. This is what we are going to do in the field of family affairs with the reduction of the delay in divorce proceedings, by entrusting the CAF with an experiment on the definition of the evolution of the amounts of contributions to the maintenance and education of children, and by developing the use of mediation. I would like to welcome these new procedures while drawing your attention to the fact that we will still have to remain particularly vigilant about the economic inequalities between women and men within the couple, as well as about domestic and domestic violence. In particular, we should be able to guarantee the holding within one month of the hearing of provisional measures in the context of divorces in dispute, to exclude cases of disagreement between ex-spouses from the experiment with the CAF and to exclude any recourse to a mediation procedure in the event of violence. In addition, the reform will facilitate access to justice for women victims of sexual violence through the possibility of filing complaints online. We will create additional means to combat the phenomenon of the correction of rapes by punishing them for what they are: crimes. This is the objective of the experiment of the departmental criminal court, which is based directly on terrorist proceedings, and which should be seized of more than 60 per cent of sexual cases. Along with the implementation of these new tools, we will need to continue our efforts to improve the physical reception conditions for women victims of violence and to accelerate the training of all judicial personnel on sexual and gender-based violence issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, behind the legal procedures that we are about to reform after discussing them are very real situations. Our decisions will have an important impact on the lives of our fellow citizens. We will simplify our justice, facilitate its access and make its decisions more understandable. That goes in the right direction. But, in our debates, let us never lose sight of the structural inequality of our country, which is the great cause of the quinquennium. It is a sine qua non for us to put an end to the inequalities between women and men in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u22	I have received a motion from Mr.Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject beforehand pursuant to section 91, paragraph 5, of the Regulations on the Draft 2019-2022 Programming and Justice Reform Bill. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u23	By successive touches, gradually, the contours of what was to be an ambitious reform of justice have been drawn for a little more than a year. We're already in mid-November 2018 – yes, more than a year already. While it is good to give time, as a former President of the Republic said, the prevailing feeling found here and there, over the past few months and weeks, is that of a waste of time, while the restoration of our justice is imperative. From the beginning, however, you had a turnkey reform, ready to be implemented as soon as the President of the Republic was changed, with a remarkable report from the Senate, then two beautiful bills passed in the same chamber on 24 October. But it was probably too simple. As a result, the courts were opened in the fall of 2017. A five-pronged presentation followed in mid-January, followed by emergency measures, alas a little rafistolage, adopted following the prison strike in February. The President spoke in Agen on 6 March on the reform of sentences and on 9 March it was the turn of the Prime Minister and of yourself, Madam Keeper of the Seals. A single presentation would have been preferred at the end of the winter rather than such a sausageing, a cutting that prevented any overall view. This, no doubt, showed the weight of the presidential orientations vis-à-vis the rest of the Government, Prime Minister in the lead, and the very relative one of the Ministry of Justice, which, in a way, was caught between the presidential avil and the primo-ministerial hammer. But this story is now behind us and, if we do not share all your orientations and proposals, far from it, I would be happy to acknowledge – and that all of this will be recorded, as they say in the courts – that you are actually carrying this project, without any doubt. In my turn, I thank you for the constructive atmosphere of the debates that took place two weeks ago. My remarks are also addressed to the Chair of the Law Committee, and this is not just an exchange of friendships; one can oppose and assume its differences while respecting one another; It is simply called the ethics of politics. Overall – and this is something to be welcomed – one can only share the observation of a sick justice, of a prison world that is not well, of a criminal policy that needs to be flattened, at least. Our justice is distressed, even cluttered, as pointed out in the summer of 2017, the National Conference of Prosecutors, in its black book, which had been a landmark. Words are strong, because evils are there! However, it is not enough to increase the justice budget and create posts. Yet these must be filled. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case for several years, particularly in the prison administration. Despite a slight improvement in 2018, I don't see how miracle it could suddenly be arranged. In reality, there is a crisis of vocations, due to the lack of attractiveness of the jobs concerned. There is also the problem of vacancies. In the English Channel, a department I know well, the latest project for the transfer of judges, published in October 2018, foresees the departure of a substitute for the Coutances Public Prosecutor's Office – an example among others – effective on 1 April 2019, which will bring the number of posts in the Public Prosecutor's Office to three out of five, i.e. a 40% vacancy rate. And yet, this prosecutor's office covers a territory of the size of five French departments and is competent for every 300,000 inhabitants. The reform under way will, in your view, improve the situation; I doubt it. French justice was left in set-aside from 2012 to 2016. Worse still, it was sacrificed by dogmatism, with in particular the rejection of a necessary evolution of criminal policy. The prison plan, resulting from the programming law of 27 March 2012, was thus interrupted without even taking into account, a minimum, the needs, known and recognized by all, of modernization of prisons, which for some are anything but worthy – finally, they are worthy of the nineteenth century, the time of the creation of many of them. This is the case, in the English Channel – we take the examples we know well – where the two detention centres in the department are overcrowded, with dormitories, yes, dormitories of six or nine inmates, sometimes even more, during sitting sessions but also in the summer, and mattresses on the floor. And if the staff, whom I salute, do a remarkable job in such conditions, trying to keep, if I may say so, a family spirit, the State has been quite logically condemned, on several occasions, to pay damages to detainees for degrading treatment. I could quote Fresnes, where several members of the Law Committee, its chairman in the first place, visited them a month ago, and so many other places you know, ladies and gentlemen, for having also visited them, including overseas. I can tell you that the Nouméa prison – the president of the Law Commission knows this perfectly – is absolutely not dreaming; Whoever thinks he'll find a five-star hotel there would be for his reservation... It took a few months during which Jean-Jacques Urvoas – I greet him – was guarded of the seals to finally see a beginning to improve prison policy. It's not much on a quinquennium. In these circumstances, how is it surprising that our justice is ranked 20th out of twenty-eight in the European Union? Of course, you will tell me, Madam Keeper of the Seals and probably a few colleagues, we must be wary of the rankings. The French system of ecvinage, which other countries do not know, distorts statistics because some magistrates are not considered to be such. No doubt, but not enough to put us on the first steps of the podium! Yes, our justice is very ill: not enough magistrates or staff, an endemic prison overcrowding. But your proposals are not up to the stakes. I will take several elements to support my demonstration, which will be supplemented and enriched by the intervention of Antoine Savignat, my colleague from the group Les Républicains member of the commission des lois. As far as I am concerned, no difficulties – at least in principle, but as always the devil is in the details – with the arrangement of prison sentences firm. In 2009, we included in the Prison Act, which still refers to the adjustment of sentences of less than two years. Prison remains indispensable, it is unavoidable in many cases. However, it is not, in my view, the alpha and omega of criminal policies. What matters is the existence of a real punishment, a real punishment, which is then actually carried out, inside and sometimes outside the prison environment. It is too often there that the bât hurts these days: too often too many penalties are not carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u24	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u25	This undermines justice and reinforces the feeling of misunderstanding and anger among our fellow citizens. The diversity of sentences presupposes more diversified means of carrying them out than those that exist today: from the prison to the detention centre, to more open environments, without forgetting the alternative penalties, without doubt. The joint report is written in eight hands with the three colleagues whom I greet, the Chair of the Law Committee, Stéphane Mazars and Laurence Vichnievsky – or rather with four hands, unless we are ambidextraters, Mrs Braun-Pivet – entitled "Rethinking prison to better reintegrate", goes in this direction, and I do not deny it or denigrate it, I fully assume it. [[Smile]] But still! Bringing back the number of prison places from 15,000, a figure promised during the presidential campaign, to only 7,000 is a form of fraud! To affirm, as the report appended to the bill does, that the plan will continue until 2027, within the maximum limit – a ceiling, note it well – of 15,000 places is powder in the eyes! What will become of those 8,000 seats returned to a hypothetical second term of office of President Macron? The current alignment of the planets does not seem to me to be so effective that we can take the bet. I would tend to say that the President sees it in all colors, maybe a lot of yellow, right now... Everyone knows that it would take at least 11,000 prison places to keep their heads out of the water. Serious studies, carried out at the end of 2016 and early 2017, have demonstrated this: the creation of 7000 additional places does not allow the individual confinement or the necessary modernisation of existing establishments. In fact, what do the 7000 seats mean by 2022? They include 2,000 open spaces. That's a lot. I am in favour of the open environment, but 2000 is a lot, probably too much in this first wave. There are then only 5000 more classic seats left. At this stage of the quinquennium – the work will obviously not start until 2019 – it is difficult to see how these 5000 places could be delivered, even by speeding up or simplifying, as you pointed out, some procedures. There are many constraints: there is little control over land, some PLUs – local planning plans – are not free of all recourse from local residents, the deadlines for drawing up specifications can be delayed, calls for tenders must be launched. In short, a lot of smoke masking reality. On the other hand, we would like to see more measures – there are already some, I agree – to make the prison no longer a school of recidivism, but rather, without angelism, a school of second chance. In order to break this vicious circle, it is important to give a much stronger place to work in prison, not just to occupy prisoners, but to include training and work. This requirement must be at the heart of the action of the State and the regions – for training –, in connection with the local economic fabric and the providers of orders, in their diversity, because it is it which prevents recidivism, in the interests of the prisoners, of course, but as much, if not more, in the interests of society and our fellow citizens. The Government assures us, with its hand on its heart, that it wants justice of proximity. Like our fellow citizens, I ask only to believe it – I will not sue you in witchcraft, Madam Keeper of the Seals. But is the reform of the judicial institutions that you are presenting to us likely to bring citizens closer to their courts? What about the proximity they need? The forthcoming merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance into a single tribunal raises many questions: questions of logistics, personnel, the division of powers, allowing our fellow citizens to find themselves there, in short, questions in all directions. Are you so sure, as you say, that, in the end or in the medium term, all the places of justice will be maintained? Even if you tell us, nothing is less safe for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u26	We saw him well with Rachida Dati!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u27	I ask only to believe you, but governments pass – sic transit gloria mundi. In this respect, the Dati reform leaves a bitter taste, even to someone like me, who belonged to the majority then... The same causes often producing the same effects, you will allow me, who have not yet suffered the sixth extinction of species, to publicly doubt it... What, then, of the future merger of TGIs when there are several springs in the same department? This is the case, for example, in the Doubs, but also in the English Channel. You mentioned this point earlier. A grouping could eventually be envisaged to form a single departmental tribunal, where everything would be concentrated. Is it a question of uniting to remove better? Nor will I dwell – and this will be done – on the departmental criminal court, which is intended to replace, for one part, the sittings. Is this closeness again? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u28	You said the opposite in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u29	Beyond the creation of new entities, officially in order to avoid too much correction of certain cases, is it not possible, this time, to remove the French people squarely from these courts? I remind you, in this departmental court, there will be no more jurors! However, their presence is not only a matter of a long French judicial tradition, but also of a long historical filiation in legal matters. In short, proximity seems to be moving away. After the medical deserts, judicial deserts are to be feared. In any case, they are feared: a territorial divide is in the head of elected officials and of the population, and even of jurists. This reform risks, in particular, strengthening the precarisation and impoverishment of the profession of lawyer in certain bars,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u30	You can't say that, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u31	... which could be grouped or merged around new poles – this has already been seen. I will come back to this point with regard to other reforms. However, lawyers are valuable auxiliaries of justice on a daily basis, and I commend their commitment. The worst is never certain, I don't make a bad trial of intent,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u32	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u33	... but this risk has been mentioned on many occasions, Madam seal keeper, and with enough force to make us their spokesperson here. It is up to you to answer, if any; the word is in defence, if I may allow that expression. Moreover, if we are to bring our fellow citizens closer to justice by digital means, I fear that there will be a great deal of disappointment. Let us not forget that a part of them still lacks control of the computer tool or that, beyond the social and generational digital divides, there is, for too long still, despite all the presidential and governmental announcements, a real territorial digital divide. When you think that it is sometimes difficult to pick up certain messages or connect to the internet, you can see the gap that separates us from reality, to speak French. As for digital mediation, if it can be developed on several subjects, provided that it is framed and specified, to be the subject of intelligible rules – I agree with you quite well on this point – do we imagine that a dispute of neighbourhood or boundary as the current courts of proceedings often have to deal with is solved with a simple click? Of course not. If it were possible, it would have been known for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u34	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u35	Of course, I am not questioning the need for mediation – it has been partly answered, with already existing mediation procedures – to which I will add the need for conciliation, even if it is of a different nature. Some of my colleagues have a few different views on the matter. I have no difficulty in this: my remarks are in line with a report that George Pau-Langevin and I had written, "Access to law and justice: a necessity for a democratic society", which seems to me to be still topical. Improving access to justice for all requires the development of alternative methods of conflict resolution. Mediation and conciliation should therefore be promoted, provided that all this is regulated. However, with the all-digital, there is a great risk that, paradoxically, the number of referrals will fall considerably, because a number of our fellow citizens may not be there. In this case, justice will not be done, to the great exasperation of our fellow citizens and to the great disappointment of those who await us at the turn. At this point, I will open a small parenthesis on conciliation. Justice conciliators are often pensioners. They do not expect, as you know, any recognition of their investment, of the time spent on their task, beyond the right resolution, in good intelligence, of certain disputes. They do not claim any significant compensation or that would constitute a disguised salary. Nevertheless, in the logic of what has already been done, it is important at least to recognize them better, to equip them with certain tools and to increase their compensation, especially kilometric ones, especially since the price of fuels is far from being wise at the moment, you know as I do and the news reminds you – not wearing a colour vest, I will not say any more... It is also stated that justice must be as inclusive as possible. Perfect! But, for the time being, nothing in the bill really goes in the direction of careful justice for the most deprived – when I say "nothing," I am probably a little excessive, because the text still has some elements. So, what about the necessary reform of legal aid? It is well mentioned in the attached report, but without specific implementation. Of course, a mission on this subject was entrusted to the General Inspectorate of Finance and the General Inspectorate of Justice – we discussed it fifteen days ago – but it would of course have been more sensible and interesting to link the reform of the AJ, legal aid, to the leads contained in this bill or to much more concrete elements. It is a matter of coherence, but it is also probably of efficiency. Finding suitable parliamentary slots is never easy; The congestion is such that reform packages sometimes follow each other hard or even carbble. Legal aid – which, since the founding law of 10 July 1991, has been the subject of only slight amendments, including in recent years, I quite readily acknowledge – has suffered for too long, as we had demonstrated in the above-mentioned report, published in 2011. Seven years later, unfortunately, we are still at the same point. At the same time, however, our country has undergone profound changes and the litigants express needs of increasing complexity, as evidenced by the explosion of disputes. In these circumstances, having no rights or not being able to defend them is the same form of dysfunction for a democratic society. Lawyers are right to forcefully recall, regularly and particularly at this time, the respect for rights. Yes, respect for the rights of the defence requires first of all the possibility of defending oneself...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u36	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u37	... and through an approach to justice which consists of opening it to the widest possible extent. In conclusion, what about the place given to the victims? Of course, there is a willingness to facilitate the formation of civil damages for non-comparative victims, as well as some measures to improve the procedure for the compensation of victims. They are not null and void, but they are far too little. Overall, the victims are too largely forgotten by the reform. The possibility of filing complaints online 24 hours a day, seven days a week, will certainly be an improvement for a number of them, who will find their account in a new form of digitized justice capable of reacting more quickly. However, when you have just experienced intramarital violence or rape, for example, you need more human listening, presence and warmth than the click of a mouse, the light of a screen, or the touch of an AZERTY keyboard, which refers to your own anxieties, your own loneliness, your own disarray.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u39	If this motion for rejection is not adopted and the text is being considered, I shall propose to you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen, a device to supplement that of the telephone with a great danger. Perhaps the delegation to women's rights would see its interest. It is a fairly simple system, based on an electronic system, which would allow more protection for victims. I know that this issue is at the heart of your concerns and those of the President of the Republic. In view of our shared will, I have no doubt that we will be able to agree on this, as on others. We still have to find the right device, the right terms, in good intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u40	Ah! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u41	In short, while it is legitimate for a new President and a new government to seize the heavy prison record and that of justice, if the findings are no doubt now much more shared than they were before – I would like, once again, to stress this state of mind – while a number of measures can also be agreed upon, the account, at this stage, is clearly not there, which would fully justify the rejection of this text, hence this motion. It is not, of course, intended to keep the seals, and I once again welcome the work done, which will undoubtedly continue. If we stick to his title – I'm still smiling – the bill introduced in 2016 was intended to reform justice in the 21st century, nothing less! I do not know if the one who will occupy us this week will overbid and have the subtitle "reform of the next millennium"... For our part, we will ask him, much more modestly, to adapt our justice to the imperative needs of the present time, but also to anticipate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] We agree, I repeat, on the diagnosis. The cement that binds the nation to its justice is licking itself. I don't think it's enough to spread it out. In fact, the building is not far from collapsing. As the bill does not, in large part, meet the legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens, I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, on whatever bench you sit in this House, that you join us in voting in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u42	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u43	I listened very carefully to you, Mr. Gosselin, and I remember three words: miracle, mirages and miscellaneations. Miracle, first. To hear you, Congressman, almost everything would be a miracle. You're talking about clocharded justice, you're talking about...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u44	I'm acting as a prosecutor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u45	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... to which it would be sufficient to provide such or such additional funding so that, at once, through a miraculous operation, all the parameters would be restored, whereas, for so many years – this was already the case at the time when you held the majority in this assembly – justice lacks resources, is in decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I shall return only to one point: the construction of prisons. Contrary to what you have suggested, it is not enough to utter miraculous incantations for things to move forward. I will probably have the opportunity to say again: my predecessor Dominique Perben had launched, in 2002, a construction programme of 13,200 places; As you know, it took more than fourteen years to complete this programme, and less than 13,200 places were finally built. No one has been able to build so many establishments in such a short time, Mr. Member of Parliament. We could only do this by begging miracles, but they never happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u48	We're only at the project stage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u49	You propose to do the same, but in nine years! It's just as fanciful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u50	I propose a realistic approach, Mr.Member: in 2022 we will deliver 7,000 more places than we found, and we will have started the process – the land will be bought or the construction started – for 8,000 more places.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u51	Dominique Perben had said the same thing, Madam Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u52	Anyway, he didn't! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will do what we have announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u53	That's what we want!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u54	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u55	Nothing is a miracle, Congressman. You mentioned the prisons of the English Channel. I know very well the condition of the prisons. Because I am proposing a comprehensive reform aimed at changing the sentencing policy, which will obviously have an impact on detention, we consider that there is no need to build a new facility. On the other hand, we are going to renovate the prisons you know well, and we are going to inject 4 million euros for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u56	It would take a lot more! It's perlimpinpin powder!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u57	I keep my promises, and I take realistic steps. Mirages, then. You have dealt, Mr President, with matters which I have not mentioned myself at all. You mentioned a "merger" of IMTs. But you probably never heard of it, because there is no question of it. It's a glamour: there won't be a fusion of TGI!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u58	All right! I'm happy to take note of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u59	Because there'll be no GIT!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u60	I maintain what I have said: in the departments that wish to do so, work will be done to better organize the handling of specific disputes. The result will be no less courts, but more effective. So what you mentioned is a glamour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u61	[[Smile]] Mirage, O despair!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u62	Mirage again when you talked about judicial deserts. Where will there be?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u63	Where courts were abolished by Rachida Dati!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u64	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As I said, all the courts of current jurisdiction will be maintained, in the name of proximity, because there is a clear need at the level of the first instance courts for proximity to the judges, where necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u65	So we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u66	Finally, when I intend to invoke examples as diverse as access to justice, the rights of defence or the rights of victims. Nothing can be found thanks to your eyes. You say, for example, that we don't do anything or that we don't do much...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u67	I didn't say "nothing"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u68	I agree: I listened to you, you didn't say "nothing." But how can you say that we are not doing enough for victims' rights, when we are setting up a criminal court at the departmental level? You cannot claim that the justice system will move away from the justiciable: it will be done at the departmental level, at least in the departments that will experience it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u69	That's the scam!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u70	We are setting up criminal courts at the departmental level so that victims can see their rights recognized more quickly. We are creating the JIVAT, the judge for the compensation of victims of terrorist acts, so that they can be compensated more quickly. It is with the same aim – so that victims have faster access to justice – that we develop the online complaint.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u71	I wrote it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I could multiply the examples. These miscellanees meet their definition: they bring together elements without unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u73	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, the floor is for Mr Jean Terlier, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u74	The La République en marche group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, which will not surprise you. I agree with Mrs. Keeper of the Seals. In addition, I confess that by listening to you, Mr. Gosselin, you felt that you were introducing this motion with your lips. In fact, you did so with great elegance by recalling that the bill was developed through a great deal of consultation. This took place, as Ms.La Garde des Seales recalled, between October 2017 and January 2018, with field actors, lawyers and magistrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u75	All of them on the street today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u76	All justice professionals have helped feed a text that is always guided by the interest of the litigants. The bill also contains substantial elements that have been recalled. Mrs. Keeper of the Seals and whom you yourself have recognized: an ambitious reform, a budget increasing by 25% until 2022 and the creation of 6500 posts. You also recalled – while questioning it, without much understanding – the creation of 7,000 prison places during the quinquennium and the commitment to create 8,000 more.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u77	At least that's what's announced...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u78	These figures are entered. We will debate it and take account of it, but at this stage there is no need to call into question an ambitious reform. One more point: you say that this would not be that of the justiciable or of the proximity to the places of justice. Again, there is no point in stirring red rags. You claim that at some point, places of justice will be closed, which is totally inaccurate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u79	This will be the next step!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u80	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The guard of the seals reminded him: the judicial deserts, it was the Dati reform that created them. Today, we do not plan to close any place of justice. That is why the LaREM Group will not vote on your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u81	The next speaker is Mr Antoine Savignat, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u82	Lady of Seals, I'm a little surprised. You are proposing to us a law of programming for justice that you want to be that of the 21st century and, to oppose the motion for a prior rejection defended by my colleague Gosselin on behalf of our group, you are turning back and you are launching us that we did not do better ten years ago. I thought that our debates in committee, which you yourself recognized as worthy and constructive, would allow us all to move forward, which would exempt us from dealing with old accounts, especially since Mr Gosselin acknowledged that, over time, some criticism could be justified. We too are in this Chamber, with you, to build the justice of the twenty-first century, that justice which France will render and which the French will be able to benefit for their protection. We've debated. You have conducted a preliminary consultation. You have discussed this text with the Senate. We have continued the debate by tabling more than 1000 amendments in the Committee on Laws. All you have left is your vision. Promises, promises, promises...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u83	And nothing else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u84	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] You stated that you would not close any of the trial courts. But they will all disappear de facto, after being renamed. The decision whether or not to close a court will no longer belong to you, but a head of court faced with a shortage of staff in his new court may decide to close it. All your proposals for tomorrow's justice are based on budget promises. However, in the case of OPEX, external operations, we have seen that those of the military programming law were not required. We cannot reform on the basis of budget promises. That is why we are concerned about the future and will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u85	The next speaker is Mr Erwan Balanant, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u86	I say it at the outset, but you will understand that the MODEM Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. Indeed, it is time to reform the justice system in our country, whose dysfunctions have long been identified and which suffers from a recurrent investment deficit. This deficit, Mr. Gosselin, is your legacy, not yours. Our group welcomes this text. The increase in the ambitious and realistic budget will enable the justice system to recruit so much needed staff to carry out its tasks, to continue its digital transformation to bring itself closer to the people in need and to build the necessary prison facilities to stem prison overcrowding, which is dishonorable for the country that is the homeland of human rights. Our group supports this drafting, which promotes alternative methods of conflict resolution and re-focuss the judge on missions where his or her expertise is indispensable. It also supports the dual approach of strengthening criminal proceedings in order to facilitate the judicial path of victims and to alleviate the work of investigators. It also supports the recasting of the scale of sentences, which departs from the all-repressive without falling into laxism. Finally, it supports the changes in the judicial organisation, which aim to increase efficiency while preserving the territorial mesh of the courts. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will vote against the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u87	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u88	The Socialist and Related Group considers that a text is indispensable. That is why we will abstain on the motion of rejection that was presented to us as well as on the one that will be presented earlier. Citizens are waiting for justice to regain – or finally find – a level of quality equal to that found in other EU states. In the course of the discussions, we will strive to improve this text, as we identify legitimate gaps and concerns. A week-long debate should allow us to move forward. We will therefore take a constructive approach, which explains why we will abstain on the motions for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u89	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u90	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u91	In the same spirit, the IUD, Acting and Independent Group will not vote on the motion. Although we share some of the relevant analyses of our colleague Gosselin, we think it is time to debate. We also believe that, through our amendments, we will be able to enrich the text. I sincerely believe that the important thing for justice is to know where it is going, to be long-term. In recent years, perhaps we have changed things too quickly, at the expense of real stability. On the other hand, I repeat, many of the issues raised by Mr Gosselin are important, including the position of the victims. It is enough to attend a hearing in an IMT to realize that there is a need to change attitudes. One text will not be enough. I can assure you: some judges sometimes find it difficult to understand that they are there for the victims. That is one of the things we need to change together. It is in this logic that we register ourselves. Because we have a lot of changes to make to the text, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. Our opinion will probably be different on the motion for referral back to committee, which is more about the organisation of work in this House, which we still consider catastrophic. We will never repeat it enough: when a text has been completely broken down, we can only be given a day and a half to rewrite amendments. It is impossible to work under these conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u92	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u93	We will vote in favour of the motion to reject. Many arguments have already been exchanged. Let us make it clear: your text is singularly lacking in ambition, it will not allow us to overcome the delay of our justice. This delay, if only in relation to a country comparable to ours, Germany, is considerable – we have twice as many magistrates as the Germans. I know this is not an argument, but I think I am one of the few Members, perhaps the only one, who was detained, a judge who considered that because of a cluster of presumptions, I had to be incarcerated. I have known the reality of our prisons that have been discussed: the unbearable overcrowding, regularly denounced by the International Prison Observatory. He stressed that in France, at least one quarter of detainees should be hospitalized, and had no reason to be in a detention centre. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You know this: 20% of the detainees – I was – have not been tried and are in pre-trial detention, a practice that is misused. While it is necessary to get out of the policy of the all-carceral, you propose to do the opposite: the increase in the announced budget will be fully absorbed by the creation of 7,000 places of detention, which will then have to be managed well. In short, you always go in the same direction without thinking that many prisoners have nothing to do in prisons, that it costs a lot, that it is not a justice response. They are often in pre-trial detention, the courts being saturated because judges take time to make decisions. This is the situation that must be taken care of in order to restore dignity to justice. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I personally experienced this situation: mattresses on the floor and eight people in a cell in Fleury-Mérogis in the middle of summer, when it is very hot; Some detainees could not take showers more than twice a week. What answer do you bring to this reality? I was incarcerated for a month with a young person who was only wrong to be homeless; He was totally lost, in total psychological tension. That is the reality of our prisons! What are we doing? Nothing! What new means do we give us? None! Creating places in prison will not solve the situation. In the end, your budget lacks ambition to solve the difficulties of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u94	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u95	In a few moments, I will have the opportunity to indicate the many reasons why we oppose this text and justify voting in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. I will sum them up as follows: your project proposes a disincarnate, deterritorialized and, in a way, virtualized, digitized justice. I would like to emphasize for a moment the place of the victim, especially children, in speaking of what I am observing in my territory. Recommended by the report of the commission of inquiry established after the Outreau case, multidisciplinary medical and judicial units bringing together psychologists, doctors and lawyers should enable victims to be cared for in good conditions. But, even if their usefulness is recognized, there is no way to make them work. On the other hand, to accommodate abused, raped, abused women, I opened a phone number in my city and set up a respite apartment, where victims can immediately find refuge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u97	There is no support from the State. I have no way of mobilizing the IFPD – the inter-ministerial fund for crime prevention – on such a subject. Third, for the most prevented, the most vulnerable, the departmental commissions for access to the law are financed, but it must be noted that, again, the means are lacking...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u98	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u99	... to allow professionals to give the first advice free of charge to people far from the law. These three examples show that the victim's place is not properly taken into account by the measures you propose,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u100	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u101	...and I will develop other arguments in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u102	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft organic law, adopted by the Senate, on the strengthening of the organization of the courts. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u103	"At a time when we are, local sensitivities and special conveniences must bow to the general interest [...]. If it is important for justice to be close, it is especially important that it be well done, it can only be done by highly constituted judicial companies [...] sitting in centres where cases are not rare and where magistrates are seriously occupied": the sentences I have just given before you again, after quoting them in committee, are from Poincaré, in his report on the presentation of the judicial reform of 1926. "Everyone understands that we cannot continue to sprinkle our resources on 1200 jurisdictions scattered across 800 sites. [...] When one is a victim [...], one expects a quick, clear, readable response. ... It is not the physical proximity of the court that matters. Proximity is the quick satisfaction of the need for justice. You could have said that tonight, Madam Keeper of the Seals – and in a way you kept them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u104	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u105	These sentences were delivered by Rachida Dati in 2007, during the consideration in the National Assembly of the "Justice" mission of the 2008 Finance Bill. The title of this organic bill refers, in a very misleading way, to "strengthening the organization of the courts". It forms, with the ordinary bill of programming and reform for justice, a coherent whole, a bloc: you claim it, and we give you notice of it. It is to this set that the Communist deputies oppose, respectfully, but categorically, by this motion of prior rejection. We denounce this text because it is a well-known logic, because it pursues a history long enough to be able to take stock of it. We denounce this text because it perpetuates the situation of shortage in which the French justice system, particularly the judicial services, finds itself. Indeed, if the increase in the appropriations of justice is real, it remains insufficient; You yourself acknowledge, moreover, that the additional appropriations will be largely absorbed by the prisons – which is, moreover, legitimate, given the crisis in the prisons. The European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice, CEPEJ, has recently published a non-appealable finding: France spends less than 66 euros per year and per capita on its judicial system, compared with 122 euros per year and per capita in Germany; Of these 66 euros, only 48 euros are spent on the courts. France now has fewer judges than two years ago: 10.4 compared to 10.5 per 100,000 inhabitants. During the same period, the European average increased from 20.9 to 21.5 per 100,000 inhabitants. We have twice as many judges as the European average! Austerity does not spare the sovereign functions of the State. On the scale of the Seine-Maritime territory, of which I am the chosen, the diagnosis speaks for itself. In 2008, the right-wing government carried out a reform of the judicial map, which resulted in the abolition of the court of Neufchâtel-en-Bray and the consolidation of disputes in the Dieppe court of instance. Prior to this reform, the sum of litigation amounted to 1500 cases per year. Following the reform, the consolidated litigation represented 1200 cases. In other words, by a pass-by, by a magic trick, 40 per cent of the cases previously dealt with by the court that was closed have disappeared from the field of the judiciary. It is possible to draw a first lesson: any consolidation of disputes has the mechanical consequence of a decrease in their number. This decline reveals that the most fragile of our fellow citizens are increasingly giving up their rights. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the need for justice does not disappear and that what the judicial institution no longer deals with risks finding outlets that the state power will no longer control, because the citizens who are justiciable will have the feeling of being abandoned or forgotten by the Republic. That is why our group is opposed to the closures of full-function courts that will result in the consolidation of so-called specialized litigation. In spite of the reassuring remarks you made this evening, these closures are indeed larved or even programmed. [[Rites and exclamations on several banks of the LaREM Group]] At the same time, in labour law, the contractual breach of employment contracts was instituted, under the guise of flexibility, ease, according to the famous chorus: "Freed, delivered...".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u106	But what does it do here?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u107	On the one hand, the result was a drop of 30% in labour disputes, on the other hand, the opening of the season of balances for disputes relating to the breach of the contract of employment and the recall of wages legally or contractually due.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u108	He's right! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u109	Second teaching: when the control of the judge recedes, the law of the strongest gains ground. That is why our group is opposed to the diversion of many disputes, including the maintenance dispute, which is a mass dispute. We are concerned about the trial of a diversion of the maintenance review. She was also concerned about the Ombudsman and the entire judicial community. As we said in committee, in fact, the family allowance funds – CAF – do not have a status guaranteeing their independence, impartiality and competence on this specific subject. You implicitly recognize this, moreover, by advocating a scale that ignores the age of the child, his rank in the siblings, the real income of the parents or any other particular form of situation, such as a disability or specific schooling – while perhaps waiting for maintenance payments to be fixed automatically, by an algorithm, as is already the case with other administrative decisions. There are also two serious problems. Firstly, there is no indication that the CAF, which has been grouped at the departmental level and has not been spared by successive reforms of public policies, will be able to provide a faster and simpler service for users. Then, how can we overcome the conflict of interest in which CAFs who will have to rule on a dispute in which they are interested? The year 2017 will have been the year of the Labour Law. Under the cover of simplification – an objective proclaimed urbi and orbi by your majority – you have actually added two hundred pages to the 2018 edition of the Labour Code. Under the guise of securing social relations, investment in unfair dismissal has become a daily reality. Under the guise of predictability of sanctions, the average basket in case of unfair dismissal fell, according to the first returns, by about 40 per cent, which gives the advantage to employers who are not law-abiding and distorts competition. The third lesson that can be drawn from this reform is that the apparent political will of the Government conceals, in reality, a political will to disengage the sovereign power of the State in favour of poorly framed solutions, if not without control. That is why our group is opposed to any decline in the power of the State in matters of justice. Having established the deleterious filiation of this bill, I suggest that you look at its content. It can be summarized as follows: because of the lack of political will to provide justice with sufficient resources, there are more opportunities to do without it. Your reform brings within it a territorial divide, a digital divide and a partial privatisation of justice. These three combined developments will exacerbate the social divide in access to rights. However, other solutions are possible: since not all of us are Playmobils – to take up the expression of our colleague François Ruffin – we will propose that you, during the debate, examine them outside of any group logic. First, the territorial divide. After examining it carefully, we can say that the Justice Programming and Reform Bill is far from the announcement effects promising a better public service for the litigants. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you make sure with great media support that there will be no closure of the site, that no change to the judicial map is envisaged and that your method is solely intended to ensure the proximity and quality of justice, but, to look at it more closely, the imprecision of the criteria of this method leaves areas of shadow, on which parliamentarians will not be able to cast a little clarity because, once again, arbitrations will take place by regulation. You are proposing to merge the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. This measure can legitimately be questioned, given that the courts of appeal are the least functioning courts: the average time for handling a case is 5.4 months, compared to 14 months in the courts of major jurisdiction. I stress that, contrary to what some may have suggested, the judicial community is not only concerned about its fate, it is particularly concerned about the fate of the litigants. They find every day, in our courts of procedure, the ear of officials and the expertise of passionate and highly involved judges, who know the social and cultural peculiarities of the territories of their jurisdiction. But you are contemplating, without saying it, to close these places of local justice, where people can come with their problems, without it being necessary for them to hold a master's degree in law or to be represented by a lawyer; where litigants can explain themselves in person, orally. This gives a chance to those who are not law specialists, those who do not have a computer or no Internet access. In these courts, physical reception is ensured despite the lack of means: one can ask to meet with the trial judge, by means of simplified means of referral – declaration to the registry, application, voluntary submission of the parties – in order to reach an agreement or a judgment. In these courts of vulnerability, of social emergency, in the midst of mass litigation, magistrates process applications and render justice respecting the extreme difficulty of those people to whom Pierre Bourdieu gave the word in La Misère du monde. It is already planned to create a specialized judge, the judge for protection disputes. For the departments comprising several courts of great jurisdiction, such as the Seine-Maritime, each court of great jurisdiction will deal with specific disputes, called specialized ones, to the detriment of the other courts of great jurisdiction, thus putting an end to the expertise they have developed in these "dispute without glory" of which Emmanuel Carrère spoke. The scope of this specialization is unknown, since these disputes will be determined by decree; On this point, parliamentarians will therefore not be able to give their opinion, and national representation will not be able to exercise its supervisory role. After the so-called specialized subjects have been defined by decree, the heads of courts will be responsible for proposing, after the advice of the heads of courts, the most effective organization in the departments within their jurisdiction comprising several courts of major jurisdiction. What about mayors and members of the judicial community? What about land use planning? Specialized litigation will be distributed by the heads of the courts of appeal, without the elected representatives having their say, and the courts of major jurisdiction will no longer be able to deal with all the so-called specialized litigations – which, as I said, are not known. The courts of great jurisdiction, wherever they may be, will thus lose some of their powers, some of their substance, thus running the risk, for some of them, especially the smaller ones, of becoming empty shells – but perhaps the debates will reassure us on this point. As a result, litigants will have to travel miles to meet their judge. The poorest will be the first victims; They will even be stigmatized, because their journeys by car will make them responsible for the pollution of our planet! The specialisation experiment of the appellate courses takes part in the same movement. This worries me all the more because in committee, with the call for applications that has been launched, the Pandora's box has been opened: experimentation is called on to make small or even to generalize. There is a great risk of aggravating the territorial divide and of seriously affecting employment in the medium-sized towns concerned, which would contradict the desire, however affirmed by the Ministry of Cohesion of the Territories, to be on the sidelines of those medium-sized towns. At the time of the "Dati" reform, I conducted a study in my city of Dieppe on the effects of the abolition of a full-function court on the employment, attractiveness and efficiency of justice. The result was without appeal. Would the Government not lack coherence in that regard? The digital divide also exacerbates inequalities. Your reform, which you justify by the need to modernise justice, will not achieve the stated goal of having a simpler and closer justice. On the contrary, it risks aggravating territorial and digital inequalities. I would point out that we do not a priori have any aversion to modernity and new technologies. It may seem necessary for legal professionals to communicate with each other by digital means, with a view to speeding up the process and respecting the environment. Nevertheless, it is clear that the concrete consequences of digitisation for litigants have not been studied. However, the proposed reform calls for dematerialised and digital procedures to be introduced from the pre-content stage. While it was usual for the parties to meet before the trial, before a mediator or conciliator, you propose a resolution of disputes by screen, via digital platforms, while continuing to advocate mediation or conciliation. A first step towards dehumanization is taken – but the worst is yet to come. With regard to the contentious phase, i.e. the visible part of the iceberg of justice, the proposed reform is radical. First of all, it is recommended that the procedure relating to daily disputes, small disputes, be completely dematerialised. Thus, the defendant, with or without a lawyer – since the lawyer is not required in this type of litigation – will have to refer the matter to the court via the Internet; his opponent will also have to submit arguments for his defence via the Internet; and the parties will receive, always via the Internet, the judge's decision. You simply propose to establish, after an attempt to reconcile by interposed screens, a justice without a judge! Beyond ethical and philosophical considerations, it should be stressed that this proposal, from a purely material point of view, is inoperative. While the digital whole is boasted for its simplicity, its accessibility, its speed, it represents for the most fragile populations an impassable mountain. According to the latest report of the Centre de recherche pour l'étude et l'observation des conditions de vie, the CREDOC, the feeling of neglect, the feeling of living in a territory in difficulty are strongly linked to the difficulties of the French. As many as 17% of them do not have access to the Internet. This figure, which may, overall, seem satisfactory, conceals different realities. Indeed, while Internet use is highly developed among 12-25 year-olds, 75% of those over 60 years of age do not have access to it. In essence, these populations will be excluded from the fundamental right of referral to the judge. The rest, with 83% having access to the Internet, will not have the skills to formalise their request. Let us remember that 16% of our compatriots find it difficult to read or write and that 7% are completely illiterate. These figures are not symbolic, since they correspond to several million French. Admit that the litigant can access the Internet and be able to understand and verbalize its problem; He would have to have sufficient legal knowledge to deal with his case properly. We are told that this difficulty would be overcome by the SAUJ, the unique reception services of the litigant, a computer terminal in open access to be installed in order to allow the litigant who wishes to do so to initiate his actions in the presence of a clerk, duly trained to help and inform him. What is the actual location of these SAUJs in the territory? How many SAUJs, for example, for a TGI like that of my constituency, which covers a territory seventy kilometers long and forty wide? We are promised that the implementation of the UAJs will strengthen the local access to justice for every litigant. Just compare what is proposed with the current establishment of family allowance funds or prefectural services to understand that your design is that of a virtual, dehumanized public service, always a little further away. The litigants will be faced with limited opening hours, transport problems and a lack of training for clerks. In the introduction to the digital question, we highlighted the difficulties that would arise for the justiciable on the one hand, the need to digitize for professionals on the other. Let us not forget, however, that digital transformation would not be the prerogative of civil proceedings alone. It is also planned to dematerialize the criminal procedure, when the subject of data protection is extremely sensitive and we do not know what means will be given in this area. Above all, the introduction of the digital whole is planned according to a limited timetable, while all the courts in the French territory start from zero, both in terms of the acquisition of computer equipment and the training of personnel, which would have not yet begun, it seems. In addition, the reform is stalemate in the white areas, which, however, concern entire parts of our territory. In my constituency, it is not uncommon for the telephone or the Internet not to pass. Will the announced resources therefore be sufficient? No one knows. Will these means amputate the budget of justice? No one knows. Your budget includes not only the services of the contentious courts, but also those of the prisons and the judicial protection of young people; However, the debates in committee have shown that budgetary mobilization is largely absorbed by the prison crisis. Far from meeting the strong expectations of professionals, by strengthening material and human resources and assigning budgetary management power, a guarantee of independence and efficiency, this bill tends to maintain the status quo, summarising your political ambition to reduce incoming business flows.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u110	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u111	Thus, you propose measures that will be territorial, digital, legal barriers to access to the judge to deter litigants from resorting to justice. In view of the lack of judges, the lack of staff, the lack of material resources, which causes unacceptable delays in the processing of cases, in the face of situations of breakdown of the continuity of the public service, in the face of the breach of equal treatment between litigants according to their place of residence or the type of litigation, common sense would have ordered a real budget upgrade, as the judges of the children of the Bobigny court have reminded us with force and humanity. On the contrary, your bill puts the management of the shortage on a sustainable basis. And since litigation cannot completely disappear, you choose to outsource its treatment to private economic actors. We oppose the provisions aimed at entrusting to various actors acts which, yesterday, were free but which will become fee-paying tomorrow. Moreover, we would like to have figures on the subject. The debates will probably allow us to clarify things. These will include acts of notoriety that recognize the possession of a state in relation to filiation, replacing civil status documents, or the collection of consent in respect of medical assistance in procreation, which you intend to entrust to notaries. As for the issue of apostilles and legalisations of French public acts, currently entrusted to the public prosecutor's offices, it would have to be transferred to the registry offices if it was to remain free of charge. Beyond the infringement of the principle of free public service, which has consequences for access to justice, the privatisation of these services, entrusted to poorly secure digital platforms, would affect the quality of the services rendered, the law of the market obliges. Beyond the guarantees of competence, diligence, impartiality and independence offered by the judicial institution, it is the very office of the judge, in all its dimensions, in particular that of the protection and restoration of social balances, symbolized by the balance of justice, that could be sacrificed on the altar of profitability. Similarly, the use of alternative dispute resolution methods, including mediation, seems to be a key part of your reform. While such practices should not be rejected as a whole and as a matter of principle, they should not be used as a pretext for restricting access to judges and could not be sufficient to close the shortcomings of the public service. That is, however, the effect, if not the purpose, of the bill. Mediation is justice without a judge. Mediation is justice outside the rule of law, provided that public order is respected. Mediation is the individual solution to the detriment of the general, abstract and impersonal common rule. Who will have to pay the mediator while the judge's office is, by its very nature, free? Who will have to pay the lawyer for this additional procedural step? In what economic and psychological state will the person be entitled to a remedy in the event of failure of the previous amicable phase? What is the state's provision for legal aid, which you are refusing, for the moment, to extend to the most modest, to employees with low incomes, in case of recourse to this amicable phase? Clearly, we stress the risk of a weakening of access to the judge, which leads to the transfer of the State's burdens to the individual and the social regulation of the sphere of the sovereign power of the State to that of the private interest. Madam Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen, although everything in your project seems to be designed, thoughtful and organised to avoid giving justice a budget commensurate with its needs, the Communist parliamentarians will propose corrective measures, hoping that they will prosper in the parliamentary debate. In particular, I am thinking of the amendment, to which we have a great deal of interest, on low volumetric and high-tech cases, which seeks to introduce additional guarantees as to the territorial presence of our courts. In the meantime, we propose that you adopt this motion of rejection so that a real impact assessment of the reform can be carried out with all the actors concerned. We feel, in fact, that the adoption of such a bill could deepen the territorial and social divides by removing the courts of appeal, by promoting a digital system that replaces the judge instead of assisting him, by concentrating, as Raymond Poincaré or Rachida Dati did yesterday, the largest share of the handling of cases in the departmental capitals, by systematizing judgements rendered without a hearing or without a judge. In doing so, we feed the mistrust, misunderstanding, renunciation and sense of abandonment of our fellow citizens. The events organized by the yellow vests should encourage the Government to pay attention to those citizens who, outside any framework constituted, express despair and anger that may undermine the fundamental principles of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is because we believe in the State which protects, in the symbolic strength of a Republic present everywhere and for all, that we are deeply mobilized today. As your project stands, there will be no room for everyone in the balance of justice, and that is why we propose to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u113	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u114	Mr President, I have only one regret, that of not being the queen of snow,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u115	We'd rather need heat, Madam Seal Keeper!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u116	...otherwise I would have sung to you "Freed, delivered." However, it is not this song that I would like to sing to you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u117	But "word, word, word"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u118	... but rather the one entitled "Freeing, Protecting and Uniting", of which obviously you have not learned the chorus. To release is not to refer to the words you quoted from Mrs Dati. You alluded to a statement by which she seemed to deny the interest of physical proximity. That is not what the Government is saying at all. I repeat this to make it clear: physical proximity is essential at the level of the first instance, and that is why it will be maintained, and even improved, since when the heads of the courts consider it appropriate, they will be able to amplify the powers exercised by the current courts of appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u120	To release is to restore the means of action to magistrates or investigators, depending on the current judicial phase. That is why we want to relieve the burden of the clerks, who fall under the paperwork, by digitizing the internal procedures. That is why we want to free magistrates from cases to which they do not add value, which happens. That is why, finally, we want to free investigators from sometimes excessively complex procedures. So yes, we are liberating, but in that sense only, and not to create judicial deserts as Mr Gosselin claimed a moment ago. Protecting is a major issue: I register falsely against your assertions about the number of magistrates. You said that today there are fewer judges than two years ago: that is absolutely not true. Just look at the statistics of the Ministry of Justice. There were 7554 magistrates as of 1 October 2016; There are 7838 on 1 October 2018, excluding the Court of Cassation, which represents an increase of 4%. I repeat: it is wrong to claim that the number of judges is lower than that of two years ago. You have taken the CEPEJ study as a reference point; It is a very serious document to which I attach great importance. However, biased comparisons should be avoided, particularly when this study refers to the number of prosecutors in the Republic, which in France is less than in other countries. It should be noted that in France, prosecutors of the Republic are supported by other staff, in particular the officers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, who dealt in 2016 with more than 400,000 cases, and who carry out tasks that are carried out elsewhere by prosecutors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u121	It's not just in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u122	I am also thinking of the prosecutors' delegates, who deal with a large number of cases, more than 600,000 in 2016: they also take charge of the competences that, elsewhere, are exercised by other types of staff. As far as the CEPEJ study is concerned, you are aware that, in some countries, judgments are rendered exclusively by professional judges, while in France, other people intervene, such as judges of commercial courts, judges of labour courts or assessors of children's courts. Their contribution is considerable to support the work of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u123	So the CEPEJ would be wrong?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u124	Without ignoring the importance of CEPEJ studies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u125	You're saying she's talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u126	... it is necessary to compare what is comparable and not to diminish the considerable financial effort that we will devote to justice throughout the quinquennium –– I outlined it in my opening remarks. Uniting, finally, is, as you wish, Mr Jumel, fighting the territorial divide and the digital divide. Without developing all the measures that we are taking in this area, I would stress that combating the territorial divide is, everywhere, keeping the place, because it is essential, maintaining the existing competences, or even increasing them – I have told you how – and maintaining judges, I am thinking, in particular, of the judges of protection disputes, who are responsible for economic and social vulnerability, and who will be present in the current trial courts. We therefore maintain the places, the men and the skills: to say that we ensure the justice of proximity. As far as the digital divide is concerned, I am not unaware of any of the problems you have raised. Digital technology will not replace physical reception: it will add to it, offering opportunities that, until then, did not exist. Again, we want to add, not substitute. Everywhere, the reception of litigants will be maintained. In all the courts there will be single reception services for litigants, entrusted to clerks who, trained for this purpose, will accompany litigants in the proceedings. This point is, in my view, essential; It's not negotiable. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In your opinion, the only purpose of my bill would be to reduce the flow of incoming business: for having said so, honourable Member, I fear that you will become the sole object of my resentment, because this is not our project, which is to make justice more efficient and faster, for the benefit of the people who are litigants. I am therefore against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u127	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Mazars, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u128	Mr. Jumel, The Republic on the move will reject your motion to reject it beforehand. Being elected to a department, Aveyron, which may have been the most seriously affected by the reform of the judicial map, I find it difficult to hear your arguments. I have seen the disappearance of a court of great jurisdiction, two trial courts and a commercial court; As for the investigation of criminal cases, they were removed in a pole two hours away. So I know what the creation of a judicial desert is. I would also like to pay tribute to Mrs. Taubira, who has re-established a judicial presence in a large number of departments through the reopening of TGIs or the creation of separate chambers: this has been the case in the south of my department. Some of the territories have been remediated. Both the Law Commission and the Working Republic Group have ensured that such closures do not happen again in the context of the present reform. We have even received the guarantee: there will be no closure of places of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u129	That's still to be seen...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u130	This is included in the bill, which reflects the long-standing commitment made by the Keeper of Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u131	Be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u132	In response to your concern, Mr. Jumel, regarding the possible specialization of TGI in specific litigation where there are several TGIs in a department, I would remind you that the relevant TGI presidents will be consulted by the Court Chiefs. The Councils of Jurisdiction, in which elected representatives, including parliamentarians, and the Councils of Jurisdiction, will also be consulted. We will be very careful to ensure that this technical specialization in litigation is as refined as possible. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For the rest of your arguments, the debates we will have this week will allow us to answer them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u133	The next speaker is Mr Maxime Minot, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u134	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The accounting logic that you are following, Madam Keeper of the Seals, which aims to achieve small savings at the expense of an ambitious and genuine justice for all, has the consequence of the removal of the accused and the digitisation of the criminal procedure. No, ladies and gentlemen, this text is neither a revolution nor even an evolution; It is rather the sign of resignation. That is why we will support this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u135	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u136	Our group is wondering about the purpose of this motion: what would be in the text that would justify its rejection? This text proposes coordination measures which have become necessary, with the establishment of judicial tribunals and the function of judge of protection disputes, and the experimentation of criminal courts. In addition, the Law Commission has done useful work by removing measures adopted by the Senate, which distorted the original purpose of the text. We are, for example, opposed to too rigid a framework for the careers of magistrates, because they need flexibility in the performance of their duties. Let us not allow our fellow citizens to wait any longer for a reorganization of the courts, able to meet their needs. This law is the logical counterpart of the draft law on programming and reform for justice, which itself reflects a desire to modernize the justice system, balancing the needs of judges, investigators and litigants. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u137	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u138	Our vote will respond to the same logic as the previous one. However, this does not prevent us from pointing out the right questions posed by our colleague, who has announced many amendments. We will have to look at them carefully because, if it is good to say that there is no more cause for fear and that everything is going well in the territories, we will ensure that this becomes a reality. We are therefore opposed to this motion because we want to debate, but we remain attentive to the questions that our colleague has asked and which would merit further consideration during the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u139	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u140	We support our colleague Sébastien Jumel's motion to reject it beforehand, particularly on the issue of the reorganization of the courts. You have stated, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that the number of places of justice will remain the same and that their reorganization, moreover, will not be piloted from Paris: you will give full latitude to the heads of jurisdiction. Will they be free to reopen or strengthen places of justice that they consider essential? It would be to forget the budgetary constraints that they face at the local level – constraints that you remember at all times. What can they do other than manage these places of justice in the best possible way, through consolidations and the specialization of part of the litigation, under the guise of better professionalization? In fact, you will push the heads of jurisdiction to assume a policy that you do not want to assume yourself, a policy that consists of emptying some places of justice for the benefit of others, especially those in the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u142	Nor should we forget the merger, which you are proceeding with, of the IMTs and the courts of appeal, when, as everyone knows, the ratio of the clerks, the ratio of the cases and the time limits make the courts of appeal work much better than the IMTs. What will the head of jurisdiction do with the judges and the additional resources that he will have at his disposal? It will strengthen the former TGI, it will strengthen the penal system, because it will not be able to do otherwise, to the detriment of what remains of the court. We already know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u143	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u144	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] As you do not want to take on this policy, you pass it on to the heads of jurisdiction. If I were in their place, I'd be mad. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In fact, legal professionals grumble and will continue to grudge – and we will be at their side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u145	It's your element, gratitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u146	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u147	I'm not paranoid: when I report a risk, it's based on experience. Every time a public service has been reorganized – many of them have been – it has been claimed that it is to make it simpler, faster and more accessible, notably through digitization. Do I need to recall the departmentalization of the CAF, the USSRAF – unions for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – and over-indebtedness commissions, or the regionalization of rectorates and academic inspections? In the territories in which we live, those in which we drive diesel and smoke cigarettes, a reorganisation always translates into more distant access to public service, which only reinforces the feeling of abandonment. On the other hand, the law provides that the Chief Justices, namely the first President of the Court of Appeal and the Attorney General of the Court of Appeal, shall consult with the Presidents of the Courts and the Prosecutors, whose superiors they are responsible for. I believe a great deal in the audacity of the IT and TGI presidents and in their ability to resist: however, they will have to express to their leaders, whose powers will be strengthened with the strengthening of the coordination of the appeal courts, reservations about the proposals to be made to them. Finally, there are many very specific disputes, which are inherent in the specific nature of the territories. I am thinking in particular of disputes relating to fisheries, agriculture or the coast or to customs controls, which are likely to strengthen with Brexit. Will these disputes be subject to specialisation in certain IMTs or will they be territorialized? If you had been sure of yourself, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you would have proposed to Parliament a division of the criteria, which could have reassured us of a balanced territorial presence of the courts. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u148	Good argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u149	[[Smile]] That was good anyway, Comrade Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u150	I have received a motion from Mrs Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialist and Related Group to refer the ordinary bill to committee, tabled pursuant to rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u151	My remarks will focus on three observations. First, the justice of our country is in crisis. It undergoes continuous reforms, the effectiveness of which is questionable, both from the point of view of the judges and of the litigants. In this context, this bill could have been a new step. Secondly, the Government has initiated the accelerated procedure on this text, which raises substantive questions and poses significant risks, which should be better assessed, in terms of the quality of justice and equality of rights. Thirdly, the Law Commission has removed the improvements made by our fellow senators without any real discussion; It therefore seems to me that the project must be reworked if it is to become a reference text, not a simple management text. First of all, this bill aims to provide solutions to a crisis of justice that, for a majority of French people, does not have the means to operate it. In 2017, more than two thirds of our citizens – 71%, to be exact – felt that judges did not have sufficient means to do their work properly. In addition, nearly nine out of ten French people find justice too complex and too slow. This bill is being submitted to us at a time when the National Assembly has, for less than ten years, adopted a number of laws relating to justice and which the executive carried out, between 2007 and 2011, by decree, a major reform of the establishment of the courts. Among the laws enacted in recent years, I will mention the 2011 Law on the Distribution of Litigation and the Reduction of Certain Jurisdictional Procedures, the 2015 Law on the Modernization and Simplification of Law and Procedures in the Fields of Justice and Home Affairs, the 2015 Law on the Participation of Citizens in the Functioning of Criminal Justice and the Judgement of Minors, and the 2016 Law on the Modernization of Justice of the 21st Century – I do not mention here the strictly criminal or criminal procedural laws. If one looks at the civil procedure alone, the law of 18 November 2016 already cited was followed by seven decrees. Following the announcement of the new reform, the Code of Civil Procedure was described as a "permanent project". The texts are thus reworked almost perpetually, barely their dried ink and their application started. All this is done without any serious assessment of recent reforms being undertaken. In his speech to Congress in July 2017, the newly elected President of the Republic said: "We need time to think the law. Time to design, discuss and vote on it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u152	And yet, we are being subjected to an infernal cadence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u153	"It's also time to ensure the right conditions for its application. [...] That is the role of Parliament. Unfortunately, for this bill, there has never been any question of taking stock of the reforms, some of which are still recent. Thus, there is a problem of methodology relating to the nature of the reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u155	It is not certain that this constant movement is a sign of a clear will and a guarantee of real efficiency. This method problem also affects our own intervention. This bill is being considered, at the request of the Government, in accordance with the expedited procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u156	Yes, it's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u157	This declaration of urgency, called the accelerated procedure since 2008, allows the Government to shorten parliamentary discussion of a bill or a bill. While it had to remain exceptional, it became commonplace without its control, however possible, being effective. As part of the 2008 reform, as recognized by the Constitutional Council in 2012, there are no constitutional provisions requiring the Government to justify the initiation of the accelerated procedure. Under the current legislature, which began in June 2017, more than 50% of the texts are reviewed under this procedure. However, as the eminent Guy Carcassonne said, "to make good laws, we have not yet invented better than Parliament". In addition to this lack of consideration of the overall parliamentary time, there is a real disappointment, noted by the organisations of magistrates. With very few exceptions, and while our assembly is considering these two texts after the Senate, the only amendments adopted by the committee were additions by the Government to its own text, the deletion of amendments made by the Senate and pure corrections; Of the 1,000 amendments tabled in committee, more than 500 had been tabled by the Government or the majority. This is how a text comes before this House, which raises important substantive questions, both in civil and in criminal matters. In civil proceedings, one of the objectives is to simplify the distribution of disputes between the courts of first instance, which would have become unreadable for the litigants. In absolute terms, it seems desirable to lighten and simplify if this improves the situation of litigants and professionals, but in this case there is no indication that this will be the case. The bill is based, among other things, on three means: the abolition of the court of appeal, mandatory recourse to mediation and dematerialization. As it stands, it is marked by the search for a new procedural economy – the word "economy" referring to both the general meaning of reform and an economic model. I would like to say a few words about these three means. As the Defender of Rights notes, the reorganization of the territorial and material powers of the courts provided for in the two draft laws is a radical development, the effects of which must be measured on the users. However, no specific assessment of the needs of the latter and the means to be implemented has been undertaken. The draft law contains a provision to extend the obligation to attempt an amicable resolution prior to disputes brought before the High Court where the claim does not exceed an amount determined by order in the Council of State or when it relates to a neighbourhood conflict. Consumer credit claims will not be affected by this obligation of prior attempt at amicable resolution. The latter would be, at the choice of the parties, an attempt at conciliation, mediation or participatory procedure, without which the request would be inadmissible. Four exceptions are provided. All countries that are developing alternative dispute resolution have adopted legislation that encourages litigants to learn about mediation, not to use it. This is a common sense choice, since no one can be forced to accept conciliation and the success of such a measure requires, by definition, the support of all parties. Furthermore, if mediation becomes mandatory, the bill does not guarantee the preservation of the rights of the parties. Finally, amicable dispute resolution procedures should in no way constitute an obstacle to the right of the parties to access the judicial system. At the same time, the use of online mediation via the platforms mentioned in the bill must be accompanied by safeguards and meet common requirements in this regard. However, again, the guarantees adopted by the Committee on Laws appear to be in retreat from what our fellow citizens can hope for. Worse, the improvements proposed and adopted by our colleagues in the Senate have been spoiled by the majority. You have rejected the certification requirement. You have refused to prohibit such services from being exclusively the result of algorithm processing. You went back to the supervision of platforms offering on-line court referral support services, while senators, in particular, made it clear that these services could not carry out any act of assistance or representation without the assistance of a lawyer. However, there is a need for regulation of professionals here and elsewhere. Along with the development of mediation, the bill gives an important place to dematerialization. Thus, article 13, paragraph 2, provides: "The proceedings may, on the initiative of the parties, when they expressly agree, be conducted without a hearing before the court of main instance. In this case, it is exclusively written." This paragraph refers to all proceedings, regardless of the amount involved, while the draft organic law abolishes the court of jurisdiction. It seriously undermines the principle of oral debate, which could, for practical reasons, gradually disappear. I will not mention any other equally important issues, such as the experiment with a diversion of the revision of maintenance payments or the partial diversion of matrimonial property regimes. Many professionals and experts are concerned about increasing outsourcing, a decline in the guarantees regarding the qualification of professionals in the field of law and professional guarantees, and a recurring lack of resources, including for legal professionals, in particular for lawyers, whose role is to accompany litigants in their actions and procedures. In the long run, you risk removing from the courts the most vulnerable individuals, who should be given easier access to the judge. I now turn to the provisions adopted in criminal matters. There are many new developments, and here again there is a laudable objective of principle in itself, namely the simplification and strengthening of the effectiveness of the criminal procedure. Nevertheless, several provisions are problematic – I will not be able to stop at all. Article 26 of the text adopted by the Commission establishes an online complaint and provides for the establishment of a single digital file. The possibility for the victim to appear before the correctional court by means of electronic communication is a positive innovation, since this method of referral is provided as an additional possibility and not as an obligation. However, the provisions envisaged in article 420 (1) (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure are clearly incompatible with article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Indeed, if it is tempting to remove an admissibility period that can be perceived as a binding formalism, this period is made imperative by the need to put the defence in a position to respond to the constitution of a civil party. Article 30 I provides for a single authorization to serve as a judicial police officer, which would be finally issued at the time of entry into office. It would have the effect of removing from the judicial authority one of its main modalities for the supervision and supervision of the judicial police. During the preparatory work for the reform, the maintenance of a periodic renewal of the authorization of judicial police officers was considered essential. For his part, the Defender of Rights stated that the maintenance of judicial control over judicial police officers was "an essential guarantee of compliance with the ethical obligations of police and gendarmerie officers". In the same vein, the establishment of a national monitoring tool to enable the public prosecutor to ascertain the reality and timeliness of the authorizations would be necessary, but it was not planned. At the same time, in the area of wiretapping and geolocation, the bill aims to facilitate telephone interceptions in the context of preliminary or flagrance investigations and make them applicable to almost all crimes and offences, under the same conditions as interceptions carried out in the context of judicial information. The three-year prison threshold includes almost all ordinary offences. This extension raises the question of the proportionality of the measure, given the protection of human rights. In addition, in case of emergency, the prosecutor may directly authorize interceptions for 24 hours, which raises the question of the role of the prosecutor, who is still not considered, in the light of the criteria laid down by the European Court of Human Rights, to be an independent magistrate. Another breach of the existing law is that section 40 of the bill provides for the extension of correctional jurisdiction to a single judge to cover many offences previously tried in collegiate training, such as voluntary attacks on the integrity of the person or breaches of privacy. This considerable and unprecedented extension of the jurisdiction of single judges in criminal matters will have an impact on the quality of our justice. Everywhere, collegiality is a quality criterion for the examination of situations and the decisions to be taken; The adoption of a paragraph of article 40 could remove this important principle from our judicial system. Restrictions on the principle of collegiality should be strictly limited to cases with no complexity at first instance. Of course, we are opposed to the reasoning that too serious or too complex proceedings will be referred to the college, pursuant to article 398-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, we are concerned that such a procedure is and will remain exceptional, as the lack of resources and the objective of managing flows in a timely manner will prompt the courts to abandon this referral. Another innovation: the bill envisages the experimentation of a departmental criminal court, with the aim of experimenting with a departmental criminal court composed of five judges, two of whom may sit on a temporary basis, by which crimes punishable by 20 years' imprisonment or less may be tried at first instance. It is indicated that the cost of the criminal trial will not decrease; If no additional means are allocated to criminal justice, it is therefore the very reduction in trial time that may constitute an objective "benefit", with the risk that this will place on the right of accused and victims to be heard at a reasonable length. The creation of a departmental criminal court would result in almost all rapes -- 99.15 per cent based on 2014 and 2015 data -- being tried by a court that would be, in law and in fact, only a specialized chamber in the correctional court. At a time when some offences are being criminalized and criminalized, it seems paradoxical to exclude from the competent courts popular juries, an element of citizenship and of citizens' contribution to justice on their behalf. This would have merited further consideration of the conditions for such a choice. Some jurists even refer to the establishment of a court that may not comply with the Constitution. An amendment that has been adopted extends the use of the national automated DNA fingerprint file, without any reflection or discussion on the fundamental issues of the law that this raises. As we can see, the text, which was almost completely restored in its original version by the committee, raises essential legal questions, both for the people who are litigants and for the respect of principles to which we are all attached here, but which have so far not been given priority. Finally, the Law Commission removed the improvements made by senators without any real discussion and did not hear the observations and proposals supported by colleagues from other groups. On the civilian side alone, the Senate has done an important work, which can be described as constructive, to improve the text. It has thus abolished the extension of the attempt to amicable pre-emptive and mandatory resolution, strengthened the supervision of amicable resolution online services, extending it to assistance with referral and making it mandatory to certify services, abolished certain diversions and restored the conciliation phase in the litigation divorce proceedings. All these efforts and those of colleagues from minority or opposition groups have not weighed heavily on the imperatives of an administration that wishes to have a text adopted quickly, not because it responds in substance to the needs of litigants and the demands of professionals to improve the public service of justice, but because it follows an intrinsic logic of managing flows by minimizing the procedure, without having the necessary means to ensure quality justice. All these reasons lead me to ask, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, for the bill to be referred back to committee to be reworked. The meaning of such a request is sometimes lost by the opposition, who tables it to obtain additional speaking time, and by the majority who, without any other form of discussion, rejects it because it comes from the opposition or from minority MPs in number.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u158	It's lucid!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u159	As I said in the introduction, justice has seen a succession of reforms over the last twenty years. Choosing to carry out reforms that articulate between them can be judicious and courageous if the French are to be brought together on a demanding and fair project. The main laws are those which have been drawn up following a compromise with or within Parliament, which means that there is a need for exchanges so that a decision can be taken, which will, of course, be of a provisional nature, but which will resolve an issue and mark a step forward in relation to the needs identified. Madam Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen, refer this text to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take the time to improve it, which would favour this compromise. I wish that was possible – although I doubt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u160	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u161	I am, of course, against this motion for referral to committee. First of all, you refer to the reform of the justice system as a "permanent project". You would therefore like to refer the text back to committee so that we can continue work which has been under way for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u162	No, I said we had to take more time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u163	It takes time, you say? This text has been on the table for a year! The work of justice has been launched and we have received its restitution. The draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers in April 2018. We had all the time to study this text, which was then examined by the Senate. We, for our part, conducted lengthy hearings, which your group attended, and then there were thirty-three hours of examination in committee, with the constant presence of the minister, who provided us with very clear explanations, which we can thank her for. We have therefore devoted the necessary time to these debates, and I register falsely when you claim that we have erased the Senate's proposals and proposals from the back of our hands, without any real discussion. First, certain provisions introduced by the Senate were retained, including the provisions of Article 3 relating to online communication services and the prohibition of exclusively algorithmic processing, which you mentioned; We have retained others in order to strike a balance between the position of the Senate, which is often inoperative, and the pragmatic objective that we aim for through this text. Your group has tabled amendments in committee and in the sitting, although fewer than the Group of the European People's Party has done, but perhaps it is also because, two years ago, you defended a text whose objectives were the very ones that we want to amplify today, namely to make justice more accessible, more efficient and simpler, by providing for a simplification of divorce, diversion measures and the development of amicable dispute settlement. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion on this motion to refer the text back to committee, which I do not think is justified at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u164	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Jean Terlier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u165	Dear Mr Karamanli, we will find it very difficult to let you say that there has been no real discussion in committee. As the rapporteur pointed out, we spent thirty-three hours examining this text in committee – I would also like to thank your colleague, Mrs Cécile Untermaier, who was present at all the debates. Your group was therefore perfectly represented at this stage. You say that this bill would provide insufficient resources for justice. The amounts have already been mentioned, I will not go back to that: this is an additional EUR 1.6 billion up to 2022 and EUR 500 million for the digitisation of justice. You say that the bill will not solve the problem of justice that is too complex and too slow. However, the text is trying precisely at the civilian level to solve this problem. I would like to take as an example the act of single referral to the courts: the administrative merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance will allow justifiable persons not to be mistaken in bringing the matter before the competent court; There will be only one act of referral, which will make things significantly less complex. One could also mention the dematerialization of the small disputes of the daily: a person who can now be brought before the judge in a dematerialized manner, thus much faster and easier. Finally, the reform of the divorce procedure will also significantly reduce delays, which is of course in the interest of the litigant. [[Mr. Stéphane Mazars applauds]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u166	Mr Philippe Gosselin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u167	You will not be surprised if we put our steps in those of our colleagues: the motion for rejection may seem too important or excessive, but the questions it raised remain raised in this motion for referral to committee. Some of the proposals put forward by the Senate have been worked out calmly and shared by many groups – and not only by those who, in the majority, view them as a systematic opposition. President Philippe Bas had made, along with others, in early 2017, an excellent report on these issues and the programming text for justice, in the version adopted by the Senate, was recognized by all as exemplary. It would therefore have been perfectly possible to have these various elements converged in order to achieve much more consensual work, which, by the admission of all, would be in the interests of justice. [[Mr. Stéphane Mazars applauds]] Of course, I do not dispute the proper conduct of committee work, which we can all confirm. Mrs Garde des Sceaux and her services were very present, the rapporteurs played their part and we were all able to speak; Thirty-three hours, it's not nothing – I want to say it to answer a palmipede that appears on Wednesdays. In fact, it did not last until four hours, as some might have said; honesty, which is always my primary concern, prompts me to respond to what I consider to be a form of fraud. However, some points would have merited further study and consideration. Many questions arise about the departmental criminal court; You can't evacuate them with a back of your hand. The place of the French people, represented by the jurors, is not only symbolic, it is important. There are also outstanding issues with regard to the courts. All this, I repeat, should be considered in greater depth in committee. Otherwise, we'll do it here in a public session.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u168	The next speaker is Mr Erwan Balanant, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u169	As my colleagues have said, we have had thirty-three hours of calm debates in committee and everyone has acknowledged – you too, Mr Gosselin, I remember – that these debates were good. I also remember the adoption of some of your joint amendments with my colleague Laurence Vichnievsky.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u170	They were about the attached report!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u171	You, too, were here, Mr. Bernalicis. You've been able to debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u172	If you can say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u173	...and made proposals. For the Socialist and related group, Cécile Untermaier was present during all the debates. Beyond these thirty-five hours – forgiveness, these thirty-three hours,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u174	Interesting lapsus! Are we going to do overtime?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u175	...it is a long-term work that has been carried out for a long time by the services of the seal guard. The works of justice, which were presented to us more than a year ago and whose success was praised, form the basis and skeleton of this text. After these works, the guard of the seals and the chancery continued the consultations that it was important to conduct with all the actors. Of course, there are still differences, and that is normal, but we must now move forward, for justice and for citizens. It is time to reform this justice that needs it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, this bill provides concrete answers on this point. It is time to study them, and to adopt this text to ensure that our justice progresses, because its shortcomings do not date from yesterday, or from a year ago, but from thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u176	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u177	Madam Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen, through this motion for referral, and beyond the progress proposed by this text and which we recognize, our group wishes to alert you and express its reservations and concerns about a number of provisions, in particular with regard to respect for individual freedoms, the removal of the judge from the court, legal aid and the position of the victim in the case of violence. On the other hand, we doubt the realistic nature of the objectives set in the fight against prison overcrowding. We believe that this text should be further discussed, amended and improved in several points, and that is why we propose referral back to committee. However, we would raise these issues in court if our request for referral were to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u178	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u179	The IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote in favour of this motion for referral back to committee, essentially for a matter of form. This is a very important piece of legislation, which the Senate has substantially changed, not by systematic opposition, but to enrich it, and which was then further amended by our Law Commission. All this is normal. What is less normal is that we have only had a day and a half to draft amendments and propose further amendments before the examination in session!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u180	That's right! It was hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u181	For a text of this magnitude, this is not decent. We could still have had a little more time! Besides, it's not a first. How many times have we received the documents at the last minute – I have already denounced him and others in this House. Let's take the Social Security Financing Bill: an hour before the minister's hearing, we still didn't have the report! These working conditions are unworthy of a modern parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u183	That is why we will vote in favour of the motion for referral. I am afraid to preach in the desert because I have already said so several times, but this House deserves better than that, Madam President. It would be possible to improve the organization of the discussions. This may also fuel current exasperation and give the impression that parliamentarians are not doing their job; we are collectively responsible for it and we will all pay it together if we do not improve our functioning. That's the cry we wanted to make. You can't just say, "We heard you. Now, move, there's nothing to see! " It is imperative that we collectively improve our working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u184	Long live the constitutional reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u185	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u186	This reform of the justice system was launched a long time ago, along with the work of the courts. However, at each of its stages, it received only discontent from legal professionals: dissatisfaction with the quality of the consultation, dissatisfaction with the quality of the exchange, dissatisfaction with the outcome of the consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u187	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u188	It is so true, Mr. Balanant, that all the magistrates, legal professionals, lawyers, clerks, etc. were present a few meters from here to tell the national representation on November 15th. We spent a lot of time working on the text upstream, but when it was submitted to national representation, everything accelerated, making it extremely difficult to exercise our right of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u189	Extremely difficult!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u190	We have tabled about 150 amendments on the ordinary bill and the organic bill. We, together with my parliamentary group, would have wished to table a larger number of them, but we faced a material and human constraint: the text was made available to us on Tuesday at 20.00 p.m.; However, since the amendments were to be tabled before Thursday at seven o'clock, it was materially impossible for us to prepare them, to discuss them with the other parliamentary groups and with the Government and to table them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u191	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u192	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u193	This is proof of my discussions with my colleague Gosselin to ensure that an amendment is accepted by the Government. However, the deadlines are so short that we are forced to debate them in the sitting, only to obtain answers of the type: "The writing doesn't suit me", "We didn't have time to work on it", "Circulate, there's nothing to see! or "We'll see later." We are referred to the second reading, which causes a funnel phenomenon. So goes the law, so goes our assembly, to go as I go. In a great democracy like ours, that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u194	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u195	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u196	This is not the first time that the opposition has denounced the poor conditions for the exercise of the fundamental rights of parliamentarians. It must be noted that this discussion illustrates once again the lack of respect shown to parliamentarians, since they cannot exercise the fundamental right of amending or enriching a text, unless they are able to oppose it. I would like to support this motion to refer matters back to committee from a different angle. The opinion published by the Defender of Rights contains a number of criticisms, which have been echoed by several colleagues. Thus, the Defender of Rights considers that "the offer of amicable resolution of disputes online must be secured" and that "the extension of compulsory representation may affect the right of access to the judge if it is not accompanied by legal aid measures". Another criticism that should be discussed in committee and enriched by the text: "experimentalizing a diversion of the revision of the contribution to the maintenance and education of children through the application of scales [is] automation without guarantees of impartiality". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] According to the report, which does not emanate from the opposition – it is not a subjective view that is taken of the text – "the removal of the attempt to bring about compulsory judicial conciliation in divorce proceedings may undermine the preservation of the interests of the parties and especially of the children". Similarly, "the use of coercive measures for the education of the decisions of the JAF, the family judge, must remain subsidiary and proportionate" – and I make a large number of proposals, recommendations, remarks that could justify referral back to committee, so that, as our colleague has said, we can, if we do not agree on everything, reach a consensus on the essentials. It's not your choice, and it's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u197	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u198	A law of programming and reform, an organic law, provisional measures, experiments, figures, promises, commitments, dozens of regulatory measures to come, an accelerated procedure, a text amended by the Senate and rewritten by the majority in committee of laws, courts that change their names, redistributed powers, scattered throughout the territory: it is the simplification as you propose it to us today. We couldn't program without reform – these are your words. So you deliberately took the step to determine the means you would not give to justice before, in a second step, looking at how to no longer carry out this regal mission of rendering justice. There are hundreds of unfilled magistrates' posts, thousands of vacant clerks' posts: do you not think that it would have been preferable and more reasonable, at first, to fill them and to provide justice normally, in order to allow the system to function and demonstrate its effectiveness? Instead, you propose to reform on a provisional basis. Contrary to what you suggest, you are not proposing justice for the 21st century, but justice for 2019 to 2022. We might think it's happy; Unfortunately, some changes are irreversible, and their consequences are catastrophic. While the ambitions put forward gave hope for an ambitious programming law, we finally have a reform with disastrous consequences. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Program to reform or reform to program? The misleading title of the text that you submit to us hides in reality a reform that falls within the framework of a programming that is not one. After a budget arbitration in which justice has not been given the right to a city, you reform to try to enter into the small framework that has been left to you; a small and rapid programme to silence the prison administration, which can no longer do so and does not have the necessary resources to carry out its mission; A reform pompously referred to as "the reform of the justice system", while in reality it is a reform of the judgment and its accession to the rank of means of resolving disputes among others – to be absolutely avoided! Fortunately, our institutions protect us: when you want to remove a judge and his jurisdiction, you need an organic law. It is therefore also an organic bill. I imagine, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that you would gladly have passed such a text, which sheds light on the only objective of this reform, namely a redistribution of disputes and the inexorable disappearance of the courts of first instance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u199	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u200	Under the misleading title of "Provisions relating to the status of the judiciary", you have in fact written the obituary of the trial court, this court which costs so much in human and material means, this court close to everyone, so accessible and versatile that it absolutely had to be abolished. Because things you call do not exist, you can always promise never to close a trial court: this adopted text, they will all one day be condemned to disappear. The purpose of this organic bill is not, as you would suggest, to strengthen the organization of the courts, but rather to dismantle the courts of appeal. This text, for which the Constitution requires a separate review, is the result of a no less worrying legislative package. A reform made of renunciations, setbacks, experiments! The provisional and experimental nature of many measures should have led us to allow, observe and wait for the results, but this cannot be the case, because they are subjects that do not support approximation and experimentation. The French expected stability, particularly in the area of justice. Imagine for a moment that a police reform proposes to leave some parts of the national territory without police, on an experimental basis, like that, to see! That is exactly what you are proposing for justice, and that is what we do not want, because it is experiences with irreversible consequences, when they are led by those who do not want to see, who do not want to hear, driven by objectives that are alien to the goal to be achieved. The objective, as you said, is a faster justice – but a faster justice, it is not a justice rendered in haste, let alone an expeditious justice, resolving disputes by computer platforms, without control, without discretion, without fairness and, more seriously, without legitimacy. Faster justice, such as the judicial and professional demands of the law, and as the French want it, is not a dehumanized justice as you propose. It is a justice with the means of its operation, a justice with filled posts, a justice with the latest technical tools, modern, efficient, at the service of the know-how, the competence and the expertise of the magistrates. It is a human justice, which has the means of its functioning, and not this pseudo-justice, automated, dehumanized, aseptic, which you propose to us. Faster justice is not a victimless justice either. Obsession of the figure, concern for profitability should not lead to the eviction of the victim of the trial. However, this is what you are considering by allowing her absence, if the court is not certain that she was affected by the summons. Since when does the notion of certainty exist in the matter of judicial summons? What right does the victim have to be deprived of his or her criminal trial, which is often indispensable for his or her reconstruction? The speed as you conceive it is not justice, it is the reign of the number, it is the end of the just to the benefit of the result. You also want more effective justice. This efficiency, you see it as the industrial revolution of justice: you finally invent nothing by replacing Man with the machine. But more effective justice is not a mechanical justice, a justice without contact, let alone a justice that goes away from our fellow citizens. Effective justice is community justice, accessible justice, human justice, good and fair: good because done in the same way, for all, throughout the territory; fair because human. It is a justice of territory, of knowledge of the economic and social environment. The effectiveness you propose is not what justice needs. All the methods seem good in order to manage this impossible budgetary programming, but to think only of the means, we forget the objectives! You are suppressing the court of all, that of the petty litigation, which, for the majority of the litigants, is the litigation of their lives, the case that concerns them, the one that invades their thoughts day and night: expulsion, conflict with the neighbour, over-indebtedness. This is the litigation of Mr. and Mrs. All-the-world, that of the three hundred trial courts whose death sentence you have just signed. You remove their identity from them by removing their names. You will not give the heads of jurisdiction the means to keep them alive and they will have no alternative but to gradually close these less profitable branches. Effective justice is not cost-effective justice. You don't make money by doing justice, you win peace! In order to achieve peace, justice must be fair, justice understood and justice guaranteed the rights of the defence. Always in the interests of efficiency, you refuse to recognize the fundamental role of judges. Effectiveness is to achieve the goal pursued by all, it is to judge by explaining, it is to judge by allowing one to explain oneself, because an understood decision is an accepted decision – but also, in the name of sacrosanct budgetary efficiency, you seem not to want to hear it. You also want modern justice. Succombing the mermaids of fashion, making gameism with the power of Regal, which must by definition be timeless and stable in order to ensure social peace in France, is a matter of absolute unconsciousness. The modernity that professionals want is, once again, the means of their action. The modernity that the French want is a justice that works, that is able to process their demands: computers that work, connections to the internet operating, equipment in working order that allows them to respond to requests. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Modernity does not lie in the transmission of dispute resolution to private and commercial platforms. If alternative methods of settlement are methods to be taken into consideration in our modern society, they can only exist, before any referral to a court, as a means of settlement freely chosen by the citizen who wishes to have his or her dispute resolved, and not as the imposed transfer of the jurisdiction of the judge to a private, paid and unstandardized system of dispute management.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u202	The judge on whom a dispute is brought must decide the dispute. Allowing him, at any time, to refer the dispute in question to an alternative method of settlement is to divert the very mission of the judge. You want to turn the justiciable into a contract! Well, that's not admissible. The person who relies on the judge has neither the vocation nor the wish to see a third party propose to him a transaction which he has not requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u203	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u204	In trying to modernize, you're confusing judgment and decision, between justice and judgment. The transactional decision you propose is a negotiated decision, it is not a judgment. It will be a source of resentment because, as a result of a compromise, it will not have the legitimacy recognized in judgment, which, although relative, is the expression of republican authority, of justice, the guarantor of public peace. You speak of modern justice to designate judgments that are actually not. To the relativity of judgment, legitimized by the absolute character of justice, you want to substitute falsely modern transactions, illegitimate in essence. To propose no longer to do justice is not to do a work of modernity, you know as much as we do and we cannot accept it. To all this, you add experiments incompatible with the notion of uniformity of justice throughout the national territory. They are evidence of your inability to measure the economic consequences of the measures you are proposing, and therefore of the totally approximate nature of the programming bill. The accelerated procedure is not justified in any way with regard to judicial reform, unless it is once again considered that it is essential to apply prompt measures, all of which will have the effect of keeping the litigants away from the judge and discouraging any further litigation, with the sole aim of enabling the necessary savings and achieving untenable budgetary objectives. These material considerations, however, cannot justify the abolition of the trial courts, an inevitable result of the organic bill. The territorial and social consequences will be far too important for us to accept as a matter of urgency. You recalled that these texts gave rise to thirty-three hours of discussion in committee and several thousand amendments, which were discussed under special conditions. During these thirty-three hours, we received the amendments as we discussed them; While we started the discussion in plenary three and a half hours ago, we still do not have all the amendments that will be before us for discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u205	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u206	Yet we are talking about justice, one of the fundamental principles of which is respect for the adversarial principle, which involves giving everyone time to prepare these arguments, which was not allowed by the conditions in which we worked. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Through this organic bill, you are embarking on a reform that will obviously be irreversible. You must therefore refer it to the committee so that we can debate it much more at length.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u207	Long live the constitutional reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u208	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u209	It is requested on every bench: everyone wants to change things!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u210	What we're asking for is respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u211	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u212	To be frank, Mr Savignant, I asked myself by listening to you whether we were in the same place and whether we were talking about the same text, both reading and we, the majority bloc, make this text – as well as most parliamentarians in good faith – different from yours. You are talking about a "small" programming of justice, while the minister, with us, has given this text a budget power never before seen, and that at the beginning of the mandate, not at the end – follow my gaze. You also talk about posts that you would like to see created before you budget them: I have some difficulty in understanding how this would be technically possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u213	Yet there are many vacancies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u214	For me, you have to budget a job before you create it. Let's be serious! Don't blame the Government like that. You're talking about the "inexorable disappearance of the courts of jurisdiction": where did you find this? The repeated explanations of the Government and Parliament are very clear: the text does not provide for any abolition of jurisdiction. Nothing in its content allows you to reach this conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u215	That's not what the heads of the courts say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u216	You blame us for a step backwards while everything indicates that we are moving forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u217	To be on the move, you are! It's about knowing where!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u218	[[Smile]] It's a step backwards!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u219	You want a stable justice system: we agree. Nevertheless, the world is moving and justice, as we have widely demonstrated, must adapt to the behaviour of citizens, to the expectations of a changing French society. It would be a historical mistake not to do so. Finally, you say that the experiments proposed will be irreversible. Again, I have some difficulty, if only semantic, following you. By nature, an experiment is made to be evaluated. This is Parliament's fundamental role, and I will play this role as rapporteur for the implementation of the text. Any experiments which have proved to be positive will obviously be continued and extended; otherwise, it will be interrupted. You will have to take your part in this evaluation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So please stop with this kind of approach and reproach. They are not adapted to the text; They are not adapted to the political, collective will that is ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u220	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u221	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u222	If I may speak, I would like to express my astonishment to you, Mr. Savignat. You have attended almost all the meetings of the commission; If the tone that was then yours was not consensual, because that was not your point, your disagreement, when it was expressed, was about real objects: to this extent, it could be agreed. But you have just made manifest misdeeds! For my part, I think, as one of your colleagues has said, anything that is excessive is insignificant. You say that this is a budget text first and that it is only after that that the reform has been brought into a tight budgetary framework. It is a complete disregard for the will of the Government, or even somewhat disrespectful of what we have achieved with parliamentarians, and with yourself. I find this extremely curious. I'm not going to pick up all the misconceptions you've made, but let's take "this is the end of the right for the benefit of the result": it's absurd! What interests me, what interests the Government, is that justice is best done for the French; It's not that we save two jobs and three dollars! That's not our goal. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are not saving them, because our budget is increasing by 25%. I wish I had seen the same thing when you were in business, gentlemen of the Republican Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u223	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Stéphane Mazars, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u224	I am sorry, Mr Savignat, to have to adopt the same tone as the rapporteur and the guardian of the seals, of which I share the astonishment. While you had enriched the work of the commission with your many technical reflections, born from your knowledge of judicial practice, you are entering into a debate of a literary or philosophical nature on judgment, which is the relative, and justice, which is the absolute, according to the words of Victor Hugo. But we are here to vote for a piece of legislation, a law that will provide our fellow citizens with solutions to resolve their conflicts, a law that will allow victims access to justice. We're here to talk about a programming bill that will give additional resources to justice – finally! – which will allow France to be better ranked from this point of view at the international level. Yet, according to your pessimistic presentation, this text would sign the end of our jurisdictions, engage the privatisation of our judicial system and express total contempt for the institutions of our republic, preventing our fellow citizens' access to the judge. This tone surprises us, especially since it does not correspond at all to the words and attitude that were yours in committee. Throughout these debates, we will therefore endeavour, Mr. Savignant, to reassure you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u225	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u226	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... by proving to you our good intentions in terms of access for victims to better justice and the maintenance of territorial mesh – I told Mr. Jumel earlier. We will prove to you that for us, justice is absolute and that this text does not betray this vision at all, even if it does not correspond to the reading you are making of it at this moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u227	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u228	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] It is not because we are polite and courteous in committee, Mr Mazars, that we approve of everything you say. As for you, dear rapporteur, for whom I have a lot of affection, you know, you are not going to dictate to us what we must say! I do not see how the words of our colleague Antoine Savignat were disrespectful, Madam Keeper of the Seals, especially since I fully agree with the arguments which he brilliantly set out. To accuse him of being disrespectful, you did not have to read today's Le Monde, which headlines: "Nicole Belloubet makes a low profile for a great reform of the justice system [...] The text supposed to relieve the courts is far from the "judicial revolution" expected. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u229	If it's Le Monde who says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u230	You see, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that we are not very far from what Mr Savignat is telling us. So there's no reason to be angry! In the context of this very rapid procedure, too fast, as our colleague from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left pointed out, you note the abolition of the courts of procedure; not sites themselves – in any case, not at the moment – but courts as such, since they will be integrated into a larger entity. As a result, the defendant will inevitably be away from the judge. This will send a negative signal to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u231	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u232	I would add that we have experienced the same thing in France of the territories with the gendarmerie, which were first associated with each other and then merged, and we have ended up deleting a number of them. We know the music!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u233	It was your friends who did this!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u234	Under Nicolas Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u235	My dear colleague Rebeyrotte, you don't have to be upset!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u236	I don't get mad, I explain!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u237	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] There is a great risk that the same will apply to the courts. That is why we will vote on this excellent motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u238	The next speaker is Mr Erwan Balanant, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u239	These four successive motions have always surprised me during these three hours of debate. They could have shown a certain height of view on the theme that interests us, a real beautiful, important theme. They are in fact justified only by the exposure of your grievances...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u240	That's a little the goal...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u241	[[Caroline Abadie applauds]] ...and, it seems to me, the will, too, to save a little time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u242	We don't make allegiance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u243	We have been discussing this three hours and I note a certain difference in tone between the constructive debate that took place in committee – as colleagues have said – and the debate that is currently taking place in the House: now you are saying worse that hanging from the text would be all to throw away. Let me refer you to the committee's report, which states that you have congratulated the minister on certain decisions. Mrs Untermaier spoke of good proposals, as did Mr Gosselin, throughout the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u244	Yes, but that does not exhaust the question, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u245	We would grow up not to adopt postures when we speak in the Chamber, a symbol of national representation, a beating heart of democracy, which is more about such an important issue, which requires so much attention! Let us move forward, let us continue the debate; Perhaps the text is perfect on some points – you have tabled amendments, as we do – but it is time to go! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Finally, I have heard of an approximate fiscal trajectory. But for the first time, we have one. It's rare! For the first time, we have a functional framework, a specific budget that will allow us to plan and anticipate a number of things. It is time to move forward, it is time to reform this justice, which needs it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u246	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u247	I am not a supporter of motions for prior rejection and referral to committee; Having said that, I consider that Mr Savignat has said everything, except insignificant words. This is his vision of justice; It was fine and good for him to present it in these terms and for the debate to be put in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u248	That is the very principle of parliamentary discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u249	You need to know how to deliberate and hear positions that you or we do not necessarily share. In this case, the severity of what has been said about our colleague is not reassuring as to the future quality of our debates. As far as the procedure is concerned, if it cannot, in my view, justify a referral back to committee, we should take stock of what is not working without waiting for the constitutional review. We could have already changed things with you, but that was not the case. Some amendments have not yet been approved by the sitting department, even though we are sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u251	It is certain that the opposition has experienced many difficulties in properly drafting amendments in two or three days. I tell you this in the most diplomatic way, without aggression; It is a fact that we have already made during the previous quinquennium, which is again true and perhaps even more profound. In addition, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Savignant is right to mention the positions to be filled: 500 posts were vacant, 300 were filled thanks to you, that's true, but what about the 200 remaining ones? It seems to me to be a legitimate question to be asked about this holiday, when the magistrates regularly tell us that it would be necessary for these posts to be filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u252	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u253	Finally, we know very well that digital dematerialization does not work: bugs succeed bugs! It is therefore normal for us to question ourselves and to be concerned when we are told that tomorrow we will no longer experience difficulties when, for years, judges have been encountering them on a daily basis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is what I wanted to say following Mr Savignat's speech, which I thank for the frankness of his remarks. After all, we're here to hear everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u254	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u255	As we voted on the previous motion, we will vote on it. I too believe that our colleague raises real questions and that he has the right to do so. After all, as long as we have the right to defend motions in this House, we have the right to defend our point of view, and that is reassuring! I have already reported on the organization of our work. As Mr Cécile Untermaier has said, we are going to start discussing the texts and amendments that have not yet been approved. It's very special, though! This motion is likely not to be adopted. Let us start the debate, but let it be worthy of this name: let us lead it, majority and opposition, with all the necessary energy! We are talking about constitutional reform, but I am increasingly puzzled about its reality. In any event, as I have seen, it does not contain much that could improve the work of our Assembly. But hope, and we will see next year where we will be!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u256	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u257	The first point is that neither my colleague nor others in this House need to be reassured. We are not children who should be cajoled or who suffer from bad explanations. A number of disagreements exist between us and we must respect them – even if we find compromise points; But stop making us believe that we cannot read or understand the basis of your reform! Secondly, on the budget, what should we not hear? Yes, the effort is extraordinary, but – I can probably say it more freely than my colleagues in the Republican or Socialist groups – given what the previous ones were, you are only making up for a cruel delay in the Ministry of Justice and, in any event, this effort is not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u258	It's never enough for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u259	Of course, you are talking about budgetary constraints, but we could also talk about the EUR 40 billion that are put on the table this year to double the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, while a small billion less on this side and a small billion more for the Ministry of Justice would have been without consequence for it and profitable for it. That is, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the budget arbitrations that I would have tried to wrest from Minister Darmanin! In the end, add: how many more billions will your bill affect justice between 2019 and 2022 compared to today? There will be 3 billion euros. However, roughly half will be devoted to the construction of the 7,000 prison places – not counting their cost of operation – and 500 million for the website planned for dematerialisation and digitisation. There will therefore remain only a meagre billion, which will be reduced by inflation. In the end, yes, the reorganization of the jurisdictions that you advocate will force everyone to try, once again, to save money. However, the means that are put on the table should lead to a broad discussion of how to promote access to justice for the litigants, how to make the idea of justice grow in our country! But that is not what you do, you even do the opposite, and it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u260	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u261	[[Smile]] It's Monday night and I suggest you stay calm, otherwise things may be difficult! I understand that the anger of public opinion worries and weakens the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u262	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u263	To such an extent that you are dreaming of a modern democracy where the opposition would be put to a standstill, at your attention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u264	It looks a bit like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u265	... where critics would no longer have a vocation to express themselves, even politely, respectfully!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u266	To criticize, we trust you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u267	It must be said that we're used to criticism, Colonel Fabien's place!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u268	On the move... on the move, that's your motto! The imperative votes and mandates are your trademark! Playmobils who vote like one man, it's quite you, it's your way of life, constantly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u269	From a communist, it's pretty crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u270	Admit that the opposition, respectfully,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u271	Is that respectful?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u272	... quietly, expresses divergences, criticisms and may even consider that the budget is not up to what justice needs. It's called democracy! I hear a colleague voicing: "Really constitutional reform! " What does that mean? That you are eagerly waiting for your bad reform to ensure that Parliament is muzzled?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u273	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u274	To ensure that the opposition is weakened, that accelerated procedures are the alpha and the omega of the discussion of laws? Is that your project? I make a prognosis: the anger that swells, and not just that of the yellow vests, will swallow you like a wave against which you will not be able to do anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u275	What a cinema...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u276	You despise the constituted bodies, the intermediate bodies and Parliament, which is the expression of democracy. This is unacceptable, even if I say it with a smile and respect. As long as we're here, we'll exercise our rights as opponents, don't you mind, including this whole week!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u277	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1069.u278	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill; Further discussion of the draft organic law on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
