ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Sylvain Waserman and others in favour of associative involvement (No 848, 909).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u2	Sophie Mette, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u3	Madam President, the Minister for National Education, the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, meeting on 9 May, the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has adopted and enriched our bill on community involvement. Of course, I can only rejoice, because even if it is a small stone brought to a very large building, even if it is modest, it is a first tangible signal sent to the associations, who face multiple challenges. Across the country, 1.3 million associations contribute to the general interest. They create, for all, younger to older people, social ties, citizenship; They offer outreach services, especially to the most vulnerable. They allow everyone to express themselves in cultural or sporting activities. With the exception of the policies of the Republic of Senegal, the associative fabric thus contributes very widely to public policies and plays an indispensable role in the construction of society. However, the organisation of associations is weakened, both in their economic model and in the evolution of forms of volunteering or in their governance. In view of the societal challenges they address, it is our collective responsibility to support, support and support them through the implementation of an appropriate public policy. In this regard, the recognition of the skills acquired by volunteers seems to me to be an urgent issue. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to invite the Government to address without delay the promotion of mechanisms to enhance the skills acquired by volunteers as part of their voluntary commitments. To return to the text adopted by the committee, it is structured around two main lines designed to encourage associative engagement. First of all, Article 1 aims to encourage the taking of associative responsibility, taking into account the reality of the associative world and the strong constraints, particularly financial ones, on the leaders. Volunteering is as important a concern for associations as the fear of lack of funding. The renewal of voluntary associations is one of the major challenges facing the voluntary sector; It would even be the first identified by the associations. It must be said that the function of voluntary leader of an association, in addition to requiring a great deal of availability and a variety of skills, is likely to involve financial responsibility, even in the event of mere negligence. The consequences can be heavy: he may have to bear all or part of the debts personally, even though his assets are distinct from that of the association. In addition, it is currently under the judge's sole authority whether or not to take into account the voluntary nature in order to place less strict responsibility on volunteer leaders. This is a legal uncertainty which, of course, contributes to the crisis of renewal in the functions of voluntary associations. Moreover, there is no parallelism between the commercial code and the civil code, since the civil code provides that liability for misconduct is applied less strictly to the person whose mandate is free of charge than to the person who receives a salary. This is why Article 1 reduces the financial liability of voluntary associations in the event of mismanagement, by extending the exception of negligence provided for in Article L. 651-2 of the Commercial Code to the directors of associations. This would now refer to any legal person – which includes associations – and not only to corporations. It is also proposed to oblige judges to take into account the status of volunteer and to examine the means available to the leader to protect himself from financial risks. In the event of the judicial liquidation of associations, the aim is to mitigate the convictions of voluntary leaders for the liability action for insufficient assets. It is envisaged that "the court will assess the existence of a mismanagement with regard to the volunteer status of the leader and the lack of means at its disposal to protect the association against financial risks". This provision will apply to all associations not subject to corporate tax under the conditions laid down in Article 206a of the General Tax Code, i.e. those whose "non-profit activities remain significantly predominant and the amount of operating income received during the calendar year in respect of their gainful activities does not exceed EUR 61634. » The Commission has completed the text with a new Article 1e r bis, which reads: "The Government shall submit to Parliament, by 1 January 2019 at the latest, a report on the appropriateness of allocating the deposits and assets of the inactive accounts of the associations to a trust account for the benefit of the Fund for the Development of Association Life", the FDVA. This provision is based on the so-called "Eckert" Act of 13 June 2014 on inactive bank accounts and disinherited life insurance contracts. The Act defined the inactive accounts and required banks to search for the holders and publish annually the number and stock of inactive contracts maintained in their books. The banks must ensure the transfer of the outstanding amounts concerned to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, at the end of a period of two years following the death of the account holder, or ten years in other cases, depending on the beginning of the period of inactivity of the account. It is therefore a matter of changing the current arrangements, so that, at the end of the 30-year limitation period, the amounts previously shown in the inactive accounts of the associations are entered in a special trust account for the benefit of the FDVA. The fund estimates that EUR 100 million would thus be mobilizable. Fostering community involvement also involves encouraging young people to engage and educating them to engage in the school path. Article 2 pursues this objective. It aims to include awareness-raising of associations, as well as civic service, within the framework of the moral and civic education of college and high school students, in order to enhance volunteerism and associations. With this in mind, article 2 is intended to supplement article L. 312-15 of the Education Code, which will provide that "moral and civic education shall also raise the awareness of students in secondary schools and high schools of associative life and civic service provided for in Title Ia of Book I of the National Service Code". It is essential that young people be sensitized as soon as possible. It is necessary to encourage the pupils and high school students to awaken to a citizen consciousness, to stimulate in them the desire to contribute, in particular through their commitment to the world of associations, and to give substance to the values of the Republic which the school inculcates in them through civic education. If, for young people, civic service is the first mechanism of voluntary engagement associated with ideas of citizenship and solidarity, it is not the only way to engage. Raising young people's awareness of associative life is complementary to their desire for commitment. The Commission considered that, while awareness of the association life provided for in Article 2 of this bill was an excellent thing, it should not be reserved only for college and high school students, as was the case in the original wording. This is why she chose to supplement the article with a paragraph introducing an awareness of the associative life among the students of CM2. This provision takes account of the division of schooling into cycles and makes it possible to enrich the link between the CM2 and the sixth. Today, volunteering is a way to express one's citizenship by having the feeling of contributing to something that far exceeds the activity carried out. Promoting volunteerism at school would be a first step towards citizen engagement. Of the 13 to 18 million volunteers in France, two thirds are involved in associations. Often, they invent relevant and innovative responses to social and societal needs, as close as possible to our citizens. In a context of multiple transitions, their action and commitment are part of the long time needed for change. We must therefore seize every opportunity to help them meet the challenges they face today. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I hope that the committee's vote will be consolidated this morning at the sitting, and that you will give the associations a first signal, which, of course, is intended to call on others. I also hope that you will allow this bill to take its place in our legislative arsenal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u4	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u5	Madam President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the debate in the House that this bill offers us today. Its inclusion on the agenda, on the occasion of a parliamentary niche, is a new sign of MPs' commitment to the development of associative life. We have already had the opportunity to have discussions on how to strengthen associative life in France, an objective that we share. Consideration of this bill follows the unanimous adoption on 30 November last of the motion for a resolution on community involvement and its recognition, also tabled by the MODEM Group. This bill has a twofold objective: to encourage the taking of associative responsibility, taking into account the constraints, particularly financial ones, on voluntary associations – this is the object of Article 1; encouraging young people to become involved in associations – this is the subject of Article 2. First of all, with regard to the need to encourage the involvement of associations and, in particular, the voluntary journeys, I would like to point out that associations occupy an essential place in the collective life of our country and in the functioning of our model of society. This can be illustrated by well-known figures: France has 1.3 million associations; the associative world has 21 million members; Through its 12.9% of employers' associations, the voluntary sector accounts for 1.83 million jobs, or 9.8% of jobs in the private sector. The community sector is therefore a major social and economic player. Among the people who make the voluntary world live on a daily basis, alongside members and associative leaders, I would particularly like to acknowledge the commitment of the volunteers. Volunteers participate in the operation and facilitation of associations, without any financial contribution. They are 13 million in France to devote their time, their energy to strengthening the social link between the French, weaving solidarity between the territories and bringing ideas, sport, culture or simply their village to life, to which they are attached. The role of volunteer leader requires personal commitment and significant availability, as well as expertise in the areas of law and accounting. Being a volunteer leader is also a personal responsibility. Indeed, in the current state of law, the financial responsibility of the volunteer leader of an association is likely to be incurred if he or she has committed mismanagement. He may have to bear debts personally, including in the event of simple negligence, even though his assets are distinct from that of the association, that he performs this function without any financial compensation and that the association is of general interest. On all these issues, the case law is contradictory. This legal uncertainty is a source of concern in the voluntary sector, as it hinders the renewal of the governing bodies of the associations, even though the number of volunteers in France is constantly increasing. The Government therefore welcomes the legislative amendment proposed in section 1 of this bill. This article mitigates the financial responsibility of the voluntary association leader in the event of mismanagement, extending – which seems logical – the exception of negligence provided for in article L. 651-2 of the Commercial Code to the leaders of associations and mitigating the convictions of the volunteer leaders for the action in liability for insufficient assets. In short, this Article 1e r aims to improve the integration of the status of voluntary associations in judicial liquidation proceedings. It's an article I'll call pragmatic. Secondly, and even more importantly, young people must be encouraged to become involved in the voluntary sector. The second article of this bill proposes to include awareness-raising of associative life within the framework of moral and civic education. It is thus a useful complement to the provisions of article L. 312-15 of the Education Code, which provides, in its last paragraph, that high school students are encouraged to participate in a citizen project within an association of general interest. This Article 2 joins the recommendations made by the High Council on Associative Life in its report, Fostering Young People's Engagement in School, of November 2017, which recalled the need to value associative engagement from an early age. The international comparisons that I have been able to make reveal, in fact, that early engagement in the school life of the child proves to be a vector of citizenship and development. The Government, which I represent today, very much welcomes this proposal, which is part of the desire of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to bring formal and informal education policies into a single ministry. I have a duty to create this synergy between the stakes of the world of associations, the stakes of youth and those of education, which means in concrete terms that we should extend this idea by projects that will develop associative or proto-associative engagement in college and high school. This rapprochement illustrates the coherence of a ministerial portfolio built around two ideas: trust and emancipation. The goal of any successful education is the emancipation of the individual, the conquest of freedom through education, which requires confidence in oneself and society. It all starts at school but is also built in the extension of the school, especially through the associative life, the extracurricular life. The child's time is not cut into watertight compartments. It must be appreciated in its entirety and the commitment of the adolescent, the young person, is complementary to his school life. Associations are at the heart of a society of trust, commitment and mutual assistance that forms the basis of the presidential project. France is not a country of different people, a country of attendance. It is a political country that is fighting. It is a country where the altruists and the generous support the social bond. Your bill encourages this altruism. The willingness of our fellow citizens to commit themselves, particularly within associations, is a treasure: it illustrates, in effect, this confidence in the ability of collectives, individuals gathered together to overcome difficulties, to carry out their projects, to transform society in a constructive way. Associations are more than powerful instruments at the service of collective projects, they are also schools of democracy and citizenship. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and on a few benches of the LR group]] The association is at the heart of the Republic, of democracy, of education. Associations are therefore essential for all of us. I sincerely thank the MODEM Group and all Members for putting this bill on the agenda and I invite you to adopt it broadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u6	In the general debate, Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u7	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy and eager to tell you the commitment of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, which is also my own, to this text. We were all elected with our commitments, our convictions, our paths. Many of us did not necessarily have a long history in politics, but we were all committed citizens, especially in associative life. It is probably for this reason that, on 30 November, we unanimously voted for the declaration of attachment to associative life. With one voice, national representation has recognized the place of associative life in our society. It was an opportunity to draw lines of work. The first, which we are discussing today, is based on two elements, namely the legal responsibility of voluntary association presidents. Our first reaction was to question the usefulness of dealing with this issue and whether there were any problems to be solved. We can read on the site association.gouv.fr, which we all know, that in terms of cessation of payments, the judge can be very strict and not give any special favour to sometimes voluntary leaders. As co-chair of an important civic service association with 150 employees, I could have had to think about it by being confronted with the situation of one of our independent associations which had a deficit of 250,000 euros because it could not have secured the funding of a community. When I studied with a lawyer the possibility of taking this association back into the network, with its employees, its young people on civic service, but also its passive, she alerted me about the risks that I would incur. If the association network went bankrupt because of this takeover, the judge could hold me responsible for it on my personal money, despite seven years of voluntary engagement, without any bill of costs or claim for compensation. It was on my own property that the liability would have been met, because it would have been a mismanagement. At that time, I felt all the injustice of the situation. And it's up to us to change the regulations. When I started working on this project, I wrote to the thousands of associations in Strasbourg asking them to devote one day to this reflection. No less than 111 moved and it was a big day, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. In particular, I remember meeting the president of a football club in one of our neighbourhoods in Strasbourg. He takes care of 250 young people. Outside of Monday evening, which he keeps for himself, he devotes every other evening of the week, as well as Saturday and Sunday, to his association. You all have people like that in your ridings. People who, after having committed themselves to associative life for forty years, find themselves president, without having the legal or administrative background. This president, after an agreement with the community, was able to benefit from five assisted contracts. Two years later, however, he received a notification from the USSRAF claiming 13000 euros. He did not know that he had to declare his employees to the USSRAF. He made a mismanagement, that's right. Next month, he will pass before the judge, and the bailiff warned him that his vehicle could be seized to cover the liability. They are people whose daily commitment is admirable. To give you an idea, he washes the football jerseys at home to save his club the cost of electricity. These people, who invest every day, whom you are associated with in your ridings, on the ground, must not be exposed to disproportionate liability in the event of bankruptcy or default. For him, it will be too late, and we will try to help him otherwise, but for others, what we will vote today could be decisive. Even if few people are concerned, those who are concerned are very concerned. By working on this issue, we are conveying a message that citizen engagement, a volunteer, can help us build a society project. In this case, we are not just dealing with judicial cases, we are delivering a message in favour of this commitment. I am aware that we will not change the world. It is with humility that we submit this text to you, but also with determination, because, when it can be applied, the effects will be major. The second element of this text concerns our young people and the message of citizen engagement that we can send to them. Many of us think, on these benches, that our society needs a renewal of citizen engagement, because it represents a hope that our youth can and must bear. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It is therefore with modesty, but also a great desire, that we propose that you take this step, small but certain, in the right direction, to deliver a positive message to the world of associations, to our youth and to the voluntary leaders of the associations, to stress the importance of their role in society, and remind them that we rely on them, that we will accompany them on this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u8	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u9	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Commission, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today, as part of the MODEM Group's special day, we are considering a proposal for a law to encourage community involvement. Our group and I had already supported the motion for a resolution on community involvement and its recognition, which was discussed during the MODEM Group's reserved day last November. We have indicated our willingness to join in any parliamentary initiative aimed at improving the recognition and protection of the millions of volunteers who act on a daily basis in the service of others and of the general interest. Our group is convinced that associative engagement is one of the pillars of our democratic and social pact. Today, our country can rely on a dense and powerful network of thousands of associations, large and smaller. They are the manifestation of the spirit of sharing and altruism that animates our fellow citizens. Faced not only with the setbacks of the State, the disappearance of public services and the decline in sports and cultural facilities, but also with the elimination of assisted jobs and, as we must say, the parliamentary reserve, associations continue to play an essential role in the cohesion of both rural and urban areas on a daily basis. As questions arise about the need to create a universal national service, they already fulfil this role of creating a common good, common activity and common objective, without which life in society would not be possible. However, the reality of these associations which mesh and irrigate our territories is above all that of small structures. Today, the income of 90% of associations does not exceed the 50000 euros per year and that of 50% of them is less than 10000 euros per year. The smallest associations are the most numerous. It is also those who demand the greatest investment, both human and financial, from those who volunteer to spend part of their time on it. The management and management of an association requires extensive expertise – as has already been pointed out – in human resources management, accounting, law or taxation. According to a 2014 report, the renewal of associations' leaders is one of the most important difficulties in the world of associations and would even be as serious a concern as the need to find funding. The current legal framework provides insufficient protection for the leaders of associations. The financial responsibility of a volunteer leader of an association, as you pointed out, Minister, is likely to be incurred, even in the event of mere negligence. It thus incurs its responsibility if it has committed one or more mismanagements which have led to an insufficiency of assets. He may have to bear all or part of the debts personally, even though his assets are completely independent of that of the association. The President of the Association cannot in fact rely on the fact that it is of general interest to exonerate itself from its responsibility in the context of an action in addition to liabilities. As a result, voluntary engagement and self-giving to others are not encouraged. The Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016 has framed the mismanagement by excluding cases of mere negligence in the management of the company, without yet extending this exception of negligence to the associative leaders. The law stipulates that "in the event of simple negligence by the de jure or de facto manager in the management of the company, his liability for the insufficiency of assets cannot be incurred". This legal uncertainty is part of the crisis of the renewal of the associations' leaders, as managers do not necessarily have the required technical skills or staff in the capacity to manage the association financially. It is therefore essential to encourage and promote the involvement of associations, by securing the action of the leaders of associations, but also by encouraging young people to become more involved in them. That is why we welcome the guidance provided by this bill and the improvement of the legislative framework for voluntary associations. The arrangements provided for in Article 1 will reduce the financial liability of the non-profit organisation in the event of mismanagement. It will also allow for better consideration of volunteer status by the courts, in order to further protect community leaders. In order to further encourage associative engagement, I will propose, in the course of the discussion, the adoption of an amendment to introduce a system of compensation for working hours with a view to providing more flexibility and flexibility to employees who wish to take part in associative action. This bill is also intended to encourage young people to become involved in associative life by raising their awareness of the community during their schooling, particularly through civic education. In fact, the commitment of younger people has increased in recent years. Today, more than one in five young people volunteer in one or more associations. The commitment of young people from 18 to 25 years of age has increased in recent years by 19%. This trend should be welcomed, while young people are often mistakenly regarded as the most difficult to achieve. This is a beautiful signal for a generation that is all too often considered to be individualistic and refractory to commitment, while, on the contrary, it is characterized by its generosity. However, increasing the knowledge of these structures among younger people is essential. The mechanism provided for in Article 2 is therefore welcome. It will allow our children to discover the richness and great diversity of associations. It is possible, however, to go even further in this process. It seems to me to be absolutely fundamental to promote, in addition to these teachings dedicated in the pedagogical model, the individual experimentation of associative immersion within the associations themselves, their organization and their strong moments. Some professional vocations and aspirations are revealed only by direct experience and personal appropriation, through internships of discoveries in companies: the same applies to associative engagement. Giving every citizen, every high school student, every young person the opportunity to participate in the activities of an association of his or her choice, a choice dictated by his or her interests or by his or her knowledge networks, in a freely chosen job of his or her time, if only for one day, would therefore greatly contribute to the acceptance and commitment of our children and to the creation of vocations. We are confident that the associations will be very happy to welcome one or two high school students, a few hours or days, to introduce them to their world and to involve them in their activities as apprentice leaders. The status of director of an association must be rethought in order to help the latter and to give him the real means to commit himself, by enabling him to acquire skills if he lacks them or to arrange his working time if he is employed. These measures would be of great help to him on a daily basis. We also tabled an amendment, which is unfortunately not acceptable, to validate an additional quarter, in the calculation of pensions, for the members of an association, for ten years of exercising responsibilities within the office. However, when reviewing articles, we will stress the great social value of the work of voluntary associations, often to the detriment of their professional or family life, sometimes their health. It seems to us legitimate, in view of their sacrifices and their constant dedication to the service of others, to consider giving them a gratuity. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, MODEM and LaREM groups]] The amendments we are putting forward would be useful in enriching this text, of which we share the philosophy and spirit. Our group therefore welcomes the consideration of this bill, which contributes to a better recognition of the daily work of millions of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u10	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u11	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, a bill to support community involvement is always welcome. It comes under discussion after a first exchange we had in the Chamber on a proposal for a resolution from the MODEM Group dealing with the same subject on 30 November. The New Left Group regrets, however, the limited ambition of the text before us, as the content is not clearly up to the ambitions set out in the title and, above all, the expectations of the world of associations. The rapporteur herself has acknowledged this very honestly by stressing the modest scope of this bill, which deals with two specific topics: the financial responsibility that can be committed to a volunteer leader, and the awareness of commitment and associative life in the context of moral and civic education, in college and high school. The text was enriched by the adoption in committee of an amendment which I defended on behalf of the New Left Group. On 1 January 2019, the Government will submit a report on the appropriateness of assigning the deposits and assets of the associations' inactive accounts to the FDVA, following the model of the Eckert law of 13 June 2014 on inactive bank accounts and life insurance contracts in disinherence. The High Council for Associative Life estimates that EUR 100 million could potentially be mobilised through this fund to finance associations. We had already passed this provision under the Equality and Citizenship Act in 2017. However, the Constitutional Council censored this article for reasons of form, on the grounds that it was a legislative cavalier. Despite this progress, which I hope will be followed up with effect – I am referring not to the report, which the Government will, of course, hand over to us, since it will be an obligation for him, but concrete legislative follow-up that could be drawn from it – the text lacks ambition. At a time when a forum was published in Le Monde on 4 May, signed by many presidents of solidarity and disability associations, including Louis Gallois, in order to alert us to the deep and growing malaise of the associative world, which considers it not to be recognized as a major interlocutor, and after the excellent report by our colleagues in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Marie-George Buffet and Pierre-Alain Raphan, on the contracts assisted in the sports and cultural sector, which shows the inadequacy of the career paths skills, in particular for the medium-sized associations, one could have imagined a right of parliamentary continuation through a number of avenues of correction to build lasting and specific financial arrangements to support the employment of associations. With the skills employment routes, the average associations are hit with a triple penalty: they are facing the drastic and brutal reduction in the number of assisted contracts, from 460,000 in 2016 to 200000 in 2018, which will continue according to the Government's forecasts; They are less well funded – if they use skills-based career contracts, government subsidies will increase from 75%, or even 90%, to an average of 50%; They are subject to training, follow-up and mentoring obligations for much more stringent beneficiaries, most of whom have a deterrent effect. I would like to remind our colleagues that last February's review of the job skills pathways amounted to 932 nationally signed routes, compared to over 18,000 at the same time in 2017. In the Loire department, just over 200 contracts were signed in May, out of 2200 possible and budgeted for the entire year 2018. Thus, less than 10% of the envelope was consumed. As a reminder, the Loire had 5000 assisted contracts in 2016. Everyone can see in their territory that the job skills formula does not work on the ground; It will therefore be very quickly necessary to correct the harmful effects. For many sports clubs, these financial restrictions on aided contracts are in addition to the 30% decrease in the territorial share of the National Sports Development Centre – CNDS – for financing their operation, equipment or training of volunteers. Today, it must be noted that trust is damaged, especially with these medium-sized associations, whose activity is certainly based on a strong core of volunteers, but also, in many cases, on aided contracts and specific financial aid. Minister, support for associative life is a dead end to government policy. The working groups succeed the reports, but the necessary decisions are not on the agenda. Worse, the announcements since the beginning of the quinquennium are, most of the time, against the associations. With regard to Article 1, the rapporteur, we would have liked to have an impact study on the need for legislation. It would have been interesting to have had the number of actual convictions of voluntary voluntary leaders under the commitment of financial responsibility. If the commitment of financial responsibility is probably a hindrance for responsible volunteers, presidents or treasurers, is this a major hindrance? Today it would be better to strengthen, after evaluation, the existing incentive and recognition mechanisms for volunteering. I am thinking of the various mechanisms for valuing the commitment that we have adopted in the Equality and Citizenship Act or in other laws, such as valuing the gains of experience, especially in higher education. However, it appears that universities are slow to develop internal validation procedures for students. The movement should therefore be speeded up. I would also like to refer to voluntary leave, which gradually enters into force during 2018, and which now allows all employees to benefit from six days of leave per year, possibly paid if a company agreement has been signed to this effect. Where are we? How could information on this poorly known system be improved for the volunteers involved? Similarly, the Citizen Engagement Account, which has been in effect since 1 January 2017, allows all volunteers justifying 200 hours of engagement in their association to benefit from 20 hours of training. With regard to the funding of volunteer training by the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, I regret that, contrary to your initial commitments, Minister, parliamentarians do not sit on the territorial commissions responsible for allocating part of the former parliamentary reserve. This deficiency, which we can regret collectively, may be the subject of further interventions this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u12	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u13	There should also be further administrative simplification for responsible volunteers and members of associations, on whose shoulders all the workload and responsibilities lie. We didn't go far enough or fast enough, I recognize it. It would be interesting for our committee, as part of its monitoring work, to take stock of what has been done and what remains to be done with regard to the deployment of the single grant dossier, the dematerialisation of administrative procedures and the "tell us once" principle. Finally on article 2, contrary to the ideas received, the momentum of voluntary engagement in our country has not been denied in recent years: the number of volunteers has increased by 17% between 2010 and 2016, reaching even 35% among young people under thirty-five years of age. It is therefore necessary to act as soon as possible, from primary school, without waiting for secondary school or high school. That is the meaning of one of the amendments adopted in committee, the rapporteur. Rather than setting up a one-month universal national service, some of which would take place in boarding schools, at the age of sixteen or eighteen, i.e. very late, the New Left group is in favour of a citizen's journey from school to university, the civic service of which would be, for the most part, a key step. That is what our colleagues in the Defence Committee recommended in February. This civic journey has begun to be put in place. A circular dated 22 June 2016 provided, inter alia, that, at the graduation ceremonies of the national diplomas of the patent in schools, young students should be given a citizen's booklet outlining their civic and voluntary commitments. Unfortunately, Minister, you did not follow up on this circular in the fall of 2017. I hope you will tell us if you will do so next year, because this citizen's booklet is very important. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM, LR and GDR groups]] In our country, associative life is strong from the daily or more ad hoc commitment of 16 million volunteers in just over a million associations. We owe it to the law of 1 July 1901 on the contract of association, one of the main founding laws of the Republic. Associative engagement is a considerable asset, but it is also a specificity that we are envied everywhere. It must therefore be preserved and strengthened. That is why the New Left Group will vote for this text, despite the modest progress it contains and its obvious shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u14	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u15	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM Group is proposing a text on community involvement. The law of July 1901 created the conditions for a large citizen movement throughout France: men and women have joined forces and are still working together to carry out actions, debate, act together, celebrate an event, either formally or informally. But this great movement is now, more than ever, facing legislative, regulatory and financial difficulties, and I am moving on. Many of our fellow citizens are reluctant to commit themselves, for fear of finding themselves faced with difficulties and of their responsibility being engaged when they are in good faith. What is the face of the associative world in France? I will sum it up in three figures: 1.3 million registered groups for 1.5 million full-time equivalent employees and several million volunteers. This has already been said, but it is important to recall this when we see the importance of this method of organization in our society. Overseas countries, which face many difficulties in terms of employment, precariousness, poverty and social inclusion, find community involvement a lever of development for their population. The elimination of assisted jobs is in the process of challenging everything. Would there be as many champions in sport, as many artists, writers, musicians, singers and painters if the status of association did not exist? The answer is no – I am sure we all agree on this. In the fight against various problems affecting our society – precariousness, violence against women, sexism, homophobia, cruelty to animals – or for the preservation of biodiversity, the community world plays an extremely important role. Often, these associations perform missions that the State has abandoned and abandoned more and more. On this international day to combat homophobia, I would like to pay special tribute to the work of the associations involved in this fight, which are all too often despised. To those who commit themselves, I would like to send a warm and fraternal greeting: you save lives, your fight is right! The economy of the semi-market or non-market sector is also supported in the associative world. I am thinking in particular of the areas of personal aid, selective sorting and environmental protection. However, the La France insoumée group finds this bill particularly timid in the face of such an important subject. We could have made a big law on associative engagement, but it will be for later. In Article 1, you want to ensure that association leaders are no longer systematically held responsible for the liquidation of their association for insufficiency of assets, even when it was caused by their negligence. This provision already exists with respect to directors of companies. You want to extend this indulgence to any legal person, which will extend it not only to associations, but also to foundations. This is neither necessary nor relevant. Article 1992 of the Civil Code already provides for a reduction of this responsibility when the president of an association is a volunteer. If the scheme you propose could relieve some of the presidents of the association, your writing is a little too broad and would allow people who are really responsible for a liquidation to pass between the meshes of the net. We cannot support this proposal. We want clarification. In Article 2, you propose to include in civic education a module presenting associations in order to encourage young people to become involved in associative life. That's a nice idea. To date, the Education Code provides for a presentation of civic services; It seems appropriate that the associations should also be presented. Furthermore, since we are a force for proposals, we will propose three amendments to this text. The first is simply to clarify and slightly narrow the scope of your bill – I will come back to that during the discussion. The second amendment calls on the Government to submit a report and to make proposals in order to create a real voluntary status, the criteria of which would be different from those of a contract of employment. The third amendment supports the idea of valuing voluntary engagement, in particular through the allocation of retirement points. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be particularly vigilant on the slope of this text when we consider our amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, let me tell you that I have 20 years of presidency and involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u17	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u18	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the main purpose of the proposed legislation which the MODEM Group is submitting today for our consideration is to facilitate and encourage community involvement. I can only welcome this ambition, even if the text itself is somewhat lacking. You spoke, Madam rapporteur, of a "little stone". Associations are essential to the cohesion of our country. They are present on a daily basis to meet social and societal needs. They carry values that are those of mutual aid, transmission and emancipation. France has several million volunteers who commit themselves to day to day to bring their stone to this great building of sharing and solidarity that constitutes our community fabric. Yet, these associations are suffering more and more. They are suffering from increasingly uncertain funding, subject to the risks of the use of calls for projects. They suffer from competition between structures to respond to these calls for projects. They suffer from the lack of accompaniment to cope with ever greater administrative complexity – that has been said. But the most worrying thing is that they feel deconceived, as they told us forcefully during the hearings of the "flash" mission on the abolition of their aided contracts. Yet, in the face of a society that is increasingly affluent, where people find it difficult to meet, to exchange, to build together, it is essential to protect the very visible ties forged by the action of the volunteers of our country. As far as the bill is concerned, we are in favour of Article 1 e extending the exception of negligence in Article L. 652-1 of the Commercial Code to all legal persons. This section will encourage the taking of associative responsibilities and restore fairness with the de jure or de facto leader of a society that can already avail itself of it. Moreover, the absence of parallelism of the forms between the civil code and the commercial code is detrimental to associative engagement. If the responsibility of the person whose mandate is free is supposed to be applied less rigorously than that of the leader who receives a salary, in practice this is not the case: the mere carelessness of the leaders of associations is sufficient to incur their responsibility and prosecute them on their personal property. We can only support Article 2. It is indeed desirable that awareness of the functioning of associative life should be ensured from an early age. Already, in many schools, associations are developing, and it is desirable that the commitment of these young people is much more valued. But the world of associations needs and deserves measures that are otherwise more ambitious. I must stress the paradox between the will shown by this bill and the actions of the Government and the majority, which have not been such as to strengthen the world of associations. The majority voted for a €2.8 billion reduction in aided contracts, a measure decided by the Government without even warning the associations. The latter felt greatly devalued by the brutality of the announcement. Many contracts could not be extended, leading to dramatic situations. The absence of new mechanisms adapted to the employment of associations to compensate for these abolitions has led many associations to uncertainty as to their ability to carry out their tasks. It is therefore necessary to develop support funds for associations, which will enable them to create associative jobs to meet their needs. It is equally necessary to move towards a true status of the volunteer. Last but not least, Minister, the state's relationship with the associative world needs to be completely rethought, with a shock of financial security. It is necessary to go back to multi-annual grants, the only system that gives visibility to the structures. The associative model may be imaginative to reinvent itself in order to absorb the ever stronger budgetary constraints, but it cannot develop for any longer. Mr. Borloo's report contained a number of relevant proposals on which the Government could base itself, provided that accounting logic did not take precedence over the general interest. Finally, I would like to point out that the associations are not intended to compensate for the State's disengagement from public service. The State must no longer allow associations to carry out the tasks normally assigned to it. Helping associations also means strengthening public policies and the public service by unburdening them from missions that are not their social object. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the groups, MODEM, LaREM and LR]] The GDR Group will vote for this text, but we must be aware that associations no longer have time to settle for partial measures. They need, as a matter of urgency, an ambitious programme to ensure that the State finally stands up to the men and women who commit themselves to the service of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u19	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u20	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to speak again, and in your presence, Minister, on the subject of associative life, dear to myself and to our group The Republic on the move. On these benches, many of us come from the associative fabric and can promote an experience as a volunteer or as a leader, and therefore feel particularly involved when discussing the theme of associative engagement. With 16 million volunteers for 1.3 million associations and more than 700,000 new associations created each year, these are places of development, creativity, inventiveness and innovation where each individual can flourish, live his passion, bring others, in fact, find his place in our society. Nor do I forget that this rich associative fabric embodies wonderful places of socialization which, by bringing together individuals from all walks of life around a project, a cause or, simply, a common passion, create a social bond and thus fight against isolation. Whatever our political sensitivities, we all know the benefits of associative engagement and the important role that an association can play, but we also know the difficulties and obstacles that associations face. The text before us today seeks to secure the status of the volunteer leader in the event of misconduct or neglect, and to foster community involvement among young people. Section 1 encourages associative responsibility by reducing legal uncertainty about the responsibility of the volunteer leader. This function requires, as you know, considerable availability and requires a variety of managerial, legal, tax and communication skills. At present, the renewal of these voluntary leaders is one of the challenges facing the voluntary world. In the rule of law, and even though its assets are distinct from that of the association, the volunteer leader may be held liable for mismanagement or negligence. Only the judge has the power to assess the voluntary or non-voluntary nature of the leader's responsibility to mitigate the penalties provided by law. The commitment of financial responsibility of the volunteer leader can then have a serious impact on his or her personal life. In the proposed wording, the text also refers to the means available to the leader to carry out his or her work. Nevertheless, acts or omissions contrary to the interests of an organization cannot materially be assessed in the light of the average hypotheticals available to the leader. My group will therefore propose an amendment to rewrite Article 1, which would remove this cumulative condition, which refers to the means of retaining the only condition of volunteer status, which can be assessed differently by the judges. Article 2 aims to make our young people aware of the world of associations in order to promote the volunteerism and actions of associations with our students and high school students, and even with the students of the schools from the class of CM2. The inclusion of this awareness module will promote volunteerism in education, especially in moral and civic education, which is a subject of the French college and high school curriculum. It is an effective way to introduce and encourage associative engagement as well as civic service. It is this youth that will be our association fabric of tomorrow. So we need to rely on our children, who are recruits of choice because they demonstrate intelligence, inventiveness and strong motivation in their commitment. The title of this bill may seem very broad – too broad – with regard to the only two provisions that it wishes to include in the law, but speaking of associative engagement this morning on these benches is also a sign of our willingness to act concretely during the five years of this mandate. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, we are all aware of the need to reassure our associations and to effectively accompany associative life in our country. That is why we are waiting for the conclusions of the report commissioned by the Prime Minister last November, which will be delivered by the associations to the High Council for Association Life. The upcoming announcements in the coming weeks are eagerly awaited. Within our group, we have already identified five areas of work and want to propose very concrete, pragmatic and concerted measures with the voluntary world and in direct relation to the expectations of our territories and constituencies. We will have the power to propose on the way associations are financed and on the tax side, on the training of volunteers and associative employment, on the accelerators of associations and associative networking and, as here, on the status of the volunteer. Associative life and citizen engagement are essential subjects for our majority and we intend to bring them with strength and conviction throughout this quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So, because this text is in line with the sense that we want to give to associative life and citizen engagement, the moving Republic Group will support and vote with conviction on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u21	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u22	[[Smile]] Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not have the ambition to treat the future of associations in a comprehensive manner, but it is a sign, albeit a modest one, to awaken vocations and thus allow the renewal of voluntary leaders. This bill, tabled by Sylvain Waserman and the MODEM group, is therefore more a matter of clinic therapy than a revolution. In Alsace, as in most French regions, associations play an irreplaceable role in social cohesion. They allow the sharing, often intergenerationally, of common values such as respect, solidarity or self-giving. It is a matter of civic engagement, passions, emotions and sharing, which emerges from the age of compulsory schooling. In the digital age more than ever, associative life creates social ties, encounters and exchanges in areas as different as cultural or cult life, sports or artistic, health or charitable, patriotic or heritage. It is a real social brewing for an inclusive society where everyone can find their place. An association can even become a lifebuoy for people underprivileged or abused by life: the hope of better days can also arise in an association. The attractiveness of a municipality is measured by its artisanal, commercial or industrial fabric, the efficiency of its social structures or its landscape environment, but also by the diversity and density of its associative life. Associative dynamism is undeniably synonymous with quality of life, especially in the rural world. For the Government, this bill is timely to try to correct the collateral effects of the unfortunate decisions that have penalized associations over the past year. [["Yes, unfortunately! » on the benches of the LR group]] First, there was the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, which amounted to EUR 45 million paid directly to associations. In compensation, the 2018 Finance Act has allocated 25 million euros to the FDVA: not only is the account not there, but we still do not know how the resources of this fund are allocated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u23	They're bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u24	In committee, the Republican Group supported Régis Juanico's amendment on deposits and assets of inactive accounts. Using them to abound the FDVA seems to us a good idea. What do you think, minister, and what about the operation of this fund? The brutality of the decline in aided contracts, without any consultation, has also seriously disrupted the functioning of the associations. According to the Borello report, the aided contracts would amount to EUR 1 billion for associations. In view of the fact that public subsidies had already been drastically reduced as a result of the application of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – and the abolition of the clause of general competence of the departmental councils, the morale of certain associations was at the lowest, with real financial worries. Two permanent support schemes for associations were introduced by the 2018 Finance Act: the maintenance of the tax credit on taxes and wages in 2018 and 2019 and its replacement by a reduction in employers' contributions after 2019, but these measures only benefit associations with employees. Minister, your plan for associations, launched six months ago with the establishment of a week of engagement and the development of digital platforms to encourage associative engagement seems to be pating. The actual conclusions of the working groups are still not known. The associations are now weakened. They expect a real support strategy to change their economic model. Administrative, financial and fiscal harassment are also a hindrance to associative life. When a small sports association organizes a musical evening intended to pay the licence fees of young people, once it has paid the Society of Authors, Composers and Music Publishers – SACEM – and passed the Single Window of Casual Show – GUSO – there is not much profit in the caisse. As grants become increasingly scarce, some associations depend on donations encouraged by the state through tax credits. When we see that associations such as the League against Cancer, to name but one, pay considerable sums for basic research and assistance to the sick, we can only welcome the continued deductibility of the taxes on these donations. This bill is undoubtedly an encouragement to engage in associative life for two completely different audiences. On the one hand, it addresses volunteer leaders by reviewing the risks associated with their financial responsibility. It excludes mere cases of negligence if there is a lack of management. I thought that this Article 1 was really a step forward voted in committee and I admit that I am puzzled by the amendment voted under Rule 88 by the majority group, as if it were remorseful and wanted to empty this article of its substance. Indeed, in the event of a challenge for insufficient assets in the course of a judicial liquidation, the status of the leader as a volunteer and his possible lack of resources had to be taken into account by the court. I hope that the majority group will take into account Sylvain Waserman's plea in this regard. On the other hand, the bill is intended for college and high school students, as well as for students in CM2 after the amendment adopted in committee, who will benefit from an awareness of the life of association through a module inscribed in the framework of moral and civic education. This bill will therefore put a little more balm at the heart of the 13 million volunteers involved in at least one association – this number even seems to be increasing, despite the defeatist speeches about succession, heard here and there at general assemblies or demonstrations. The renewal of managers is undoubtedly a major concern today. As such, our young people need more models than criticism. So the message relayed by the teachers can be decisive. It should be recalled that the Equality and Citizenship Act provided for arrangements in the course of studies for students exercising associative responsibilities, as well as the possibility for minors aged 16 and over to join an association and to take on responsibilities there without prior parental authorization. It should also be noted that the proposals made in the text are in line with the 2014 Buffet Report, which called for the creation of "a coherent path of engagement throughout life". Finally, let us not forget that volunteering remains the pillar of the community. It is important to value the initiatives of volunteers and to express our gratitude and confidence to them, especially as they often develop missions of general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] The Republican Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u25	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u26	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, chairman of the committee, the bill that is being presented today has the merit of putting at the heart of our debates the crucial question of the role and future of our associations. I'm used to saying that associative life is one of the lungs in our communes. Associations are what enables us to come together, to bring dynamism, joy and moments of development. It's the pleasure of going to a cultural show with the family, the good memories of her children's last football tournament, the annual gathering of the ball contest that allows us to find the neighborhood's neighbours. It is also the security of being able to rely on solidarity, the means of defending a cause or raising funds for medical research on an orphan disease, the possibility of sending children to a holiday colony, and so many other things without which life would not be what it is. Associations are the indispensable linker of a society that divides and breaks up as the promise of republican equality in our territories recedes. Asphyxiated for several years by austerity policies, this lung struggles to breathe fully and serenely. However, the associations no longer end up adapting to the changes imposed from above. Everyone will be able to see that volunteers on the ground do not count their time to compensate for the decline in public support. Despite all these efforts, the fact is that volunteerism is in crisis. Beyond the figures, it is a reality that everyone must measure the gravity of. Have our fellow citizens, and especially the younger generations, become individualistic consumers? We don't believe that. Rather, we believe that the political choices that over the years have replaced the pleasure of engagement with coercion and risk have had a harmful impact on volunteerism. A drastic and violent reduction in aided contracts; end of the parliamentary reserve; drop in allocations to communities; absence of a State Secretariat for Associative Life; competition of structures through calls for projects; decrease in the budget appropriations of the mission "Sport, youth and associative life" to finance gifts to great fortunes: the list of harms to the health of associations is long! Of course, all this is not new, but the current majority must, in all honesty, take its heavy share of responsibility in the crisis affecting the community world. On three occasions since the beginning of the legislature, the associations of the Douaisis have met, at my invitation, to take stock of the future of the sector. I allow myself to give you some enriching testimonials, between anxiety, anger and proposals: "We are abandoned", "Our budgets decrease every year, it is no longer possible to hold", "First, we were withdrawn 1000 euros, then 2000, now 5000: if we were to be killed, we would not take it otherwise", "If tomorrow I stop, it is the end of the association", "I am a volunteer to carry out projects, not to spend my time looking for money and filling out files. These few quotations reflect the profound uneasiness of the actors who energize the social life of our communes. At the same time, we have put in place legislative workshops in this sector to gather the views of the main stakeholders. The proposals that come out agree with some of the recommendations of the commission of inquiry led by Alain Bocquet but also with the "flash mission" led by my colleague Marie-George Buffet. In the face of an increasingly time-consuming commitment, a measure of common sense is called for: to encourage holidays dedicated to community leaders. This would be a just return of society, which is so enriched by the disinterested action of the community leaders. It is not normal to hear that community leaders need to set days of RTT – a reduction in working time – to administer their structure. The other emergency measure that is emerging is securing the funding of associations. In this perspective, the return to a sustainable subsidy logic, through multi-annual funding agreements, mentioned by my colleague Marie-George Buffet, is of vital importance. These proposals have been in existence for several years and are being expressed more and more forcefully. It is no longer possible to leave them at the bottom of a drawer. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this clearly: associations need money! While the funds allocated to associations have fallen further in the 2018 budget, it has been costed by the president of the Collectif des associations citoyens that they would need from 800 million to 1 billion euros to get the head out of the water. Eight hundred million is the cost of the exit tax that the President proposes to remove in 2019 to make a new gift to the rich ultras – a matter of political choice, which will have to be assumed when the time comes! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] The text before us today is commendable, but it cannot solve the crisis in the world of associations. Let us ask ourselves about this strategy of the authors of the text, who wish to extinguish a fire which they themselves helped to light last summer by voting on the budget and in particular the reduction of the aided contracts. Policy calls for clarity and coherence. It is urgent to match words and deeds by triggering the Marshall plan that the community sector so much needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u27	Mr Patrick Vignal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u28	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am, like you, convinced that the world of associations is essential for our democracy. I am also convinced that the weakening of the social bond, the lack of interest of the French in public action, the abandonment felt by our young people require us, women and politicians, to renew our vision of society. The world of associations meets ever-increasing social needs. It promotes the commitment of all according to the different needs and interests of the French. The development of the community world is one of the prerequisites for this vital citizen revolution in our country. It is made up of initiatives throughout the country and is a real lever of citizen engagement. In 2014, associative engagement was chosen as a "major national cause". France has 13 million volunteers, of whom 11 million are in the voluntary sector; Every year almost 700,000 associations are created. Unfortunately, the existing administrative and normative oversight forces them to a great extent. Let's help the associative world to emancipate itself! This will involve teaching support and legal emancipation. The administration must offer to the community a house of associations, a resource and information centre and a local accompaniment mechanism. I stressed him as draftsman of the 2017 finance bill: the state is perceived as an excessive producer of standards to the detriment of the voluntary world, which often has neither the staff nor the time to integrate them. I therefore believe it is essential to pool the resources of associations, be they human, material or financial – and they need additional financial resources. Associations, often of modest size, are established in a territory with communal or even departmental influence. Sharing resources according to the interests, locations or people available would allow the association to better devote itself to its main project. This mutualisation can take different forms depending on the degree of integration possible and desired: agreement or partnership contract, in order to share employees, premises, purchasing services or means of travel; creation of a new body having an associative form; possibility of merging certain associations. Of course, there are interesting possibilities which are still too little known to community leaders. Let us strengthen mutualization, which involves meetings between associations and a strengthening of their knowledge of existing legal arrangements by their officials. I therefore come back to my initial point: the state must accompany the voluntary world in order to offer it a possible legal, material and financial emancipation. This bill encourages and welcomes the adoption of associative responsibility by limiting the cases of convictions of volunteer leaders. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Raising our students' awareness of associative life is very useful. Let us continue to develop and value this commitment through civic service, citizen reserve, VAE – validation of experience –, training certificates and recognition of student volunteerism. To this end, the "Youth and Associative Life" programme, whose decree is expected to be published shortly, is expected to abound the Fund for the Development of Associative Life by EUR 25 million. This fund will support associations, ensuring transparency, consultation and identification of needs as close as possible to our territories. We look forward to him in order to continue to value the community engagement with our fellow citizens and to participate with them in this civic revolution dear to our President. We owe it to the millions of unselfish, dedicated volunteers, sometimes to the detriment of their personal and professional lives, who are engaged on a daily basis. We also owe it to all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u29	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u30	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when globalisation is breaking down territories and in a context of growing individualism, the voluntary sector remains a major player in the creation of social ties. In particular, it allows a young person to find a sports or cultural club, a person with a disability and his or her family to be supported in their efforts, a senior to have access to training in modern communication tools or to help a person in great social distress. When public services are absent, especially in peri-urban areas or in rural communes, associations are still there. The associations, their volunteers, embody in the most beautiful way national solidarity. Donating without waiting in return is the spirit of associative commitment. In saying these words, I want to embody them with names: I am thinking of Dominique Hannier – "Dynamite", his nickname in my village –, super-volunteer, always ready to give a hand for the barbecue on the day of the banquet of 14 July or to prepare the party room for the animations of the Telethon. I am thinking of Sandrine Didier, president of the association "HOP 'Autism 02", who is conducting a daily fight against administrations or some conservatives to facilitate the lives of parents and their children with invasive developmental disorders. From Dominica, from Sandrine, we know millions of them in our country, in our constituencies, at the head of associations, each risking at times against binding standards. But those who invest can find themselves with a sword of Damocles above their heads. You remember it very well with these associative leaders who commit their financial responsibility for the structure in which they are involved. Volunteers are already taking on their personal time, their energy; there is no need to impose additional criminal and financial pressure on them. This aspect of associative engagement, we have addressed too little during the last debates, and yet it is essential if we are to understand the reluctance of some to engage. The bill you are putting forward to further protect the leaders of associations is certainly in the right direction, even if it could have been more ambitious. Volunteering suffers from a double crisis. A financial crisis, first of all, since the subsidies, which represent a large part of the budget of the associations, have been greatly reduced by decisions such as the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, which you MODEM Members voted for. Although the Fund for the Development of Associative Life has been abounded by €25 million, this does not compensate for the loss for the associations, especially for the smaller ones, which depend heavily on government support. It could also include the abolition of aided contracts, so useful for structures such as food banks which, in a department such as the Aisne department, saw the number of these contacts divided by three to carry out their missions effectively. Colleagues, let us not confuse two types of association: those of village or neighbourhood, composed exclusively of dedicated volunteers, and those well organized as large companies, with dozens of employees trained to set up grants and financing dossiers. The second crisis, then, is commitment, which we see every day on the ground. In order to cope with it, you propose to present the world of associations to the students. Good idea, but too little worked out, because the theoretical module as you present it remains unclear: you do not detail the modalities or the implementation of it. Would it not be more interesting to organize immersion days in the associative world rather than to talk about it in a classroom? It is by confronting the reality of things that we become aware of the problems that arise today. As commitment becomes more and more punctual, the presence of students in the field would be more likely to affect them and create long-term vocations at home. Beyond the information you offer to the general public, there is a reflection to be made on the feasibility of associative engagement. For young people, it is enough to have the desire to act and to show some organization. But when it's active, it gets complicated. We must not deceive ourselves, between professional activity, family life and the various activities, the involvement of associations, as it now works, is hard to seduce. In order to facilitate the engagement of employees, the working hours of employees should be adjusted with the agreement of their employer and with due regard for working time. A bill I introduced in the previous legislature provided for the granting of status to active voluntary associations, which would have provided them with pension rights through the acquisition of additional quarters. This measure did not call into question the non-profit nature of community involvement, but made it possible to recognize the public interest in the work of volunteers. In fact, they replace public services in many areas, particularly in the area of disability. Making an effort for volunteers who donate their time would be a way to deal with the lack of commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As co-chair, along with Bertrand Sorre, of the study group on associative life and volunteerism, I recognize the progress of this bill and will obviously vote for it. Nevertheless, the French community sector deserves better than small adjustments, which will not be able to cope with the crisis of volunteerism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u31	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u32	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself in almost all of your statements, in which you stressed the need to make the necessary adjustments to this famous 1901 law, which went around the world. I shall vote for this text. I understand, minister, that you want to listen to the National Assembly on various issues that are consubstantial to the modern state. I will make a few suggestions from my modest experience. Like most of you, I have had the tremendous opportunity to create and chair several associations in my life, which have given rise to dozens of jobs. As soon as they were big enough, I left the presidency. This has prevented me from experiencing one of the main difficulties that can be encountered, namely, problems of money. With this text, you are aiming precisely, and I thank you for that, to reinforce the idea that a president can have of his responsibility. Associations can take on a variety of fields: communal, intercommunal, national, European and even global. I thus preside over the Association of the World's Mountain Populations, which is present on the five continents. Our association struggles to earn lasting income from its activity and to find sponsors. They find it difficult to get involved when they know that their action will affect a few distant people in South America or the Himalayas. And when they engage, they are sometimes a little embarrassed because their action on the ground is likely to disturb. This may be the case, for example, of a large water company, which is responsible for building a lake in one of the countries in which I intervene to bring about eco-development. There is a financial problem, Minister, that we were still able to resolve a few years ago – and I do not mean a majority. Since then, we have been unable to close budgets. Let me suggest that we need to strengthen these types of associations and give them greater responsibilities. Unless the President of the Republic agrees to touch the NOTRE law, we will see the end of the communes. Therefore, I don't see anyone else that the 1901 law associations can – excuse me for being a little visionary! – managing these immense territories. They are in a position to do so. In fact, today we see the terrible decline in the powers of the mayor and municipal councillors, which we discourage from preparing a list for the coming municipalities. Or, as they say at home, they'll be casual lists. We will have to pray to heaven that they will hold at least until election day; Then we'll see. A very large number of communes, therefore, will disappear. It will also take associations to manage cantons and perhaps even some suburbs. As an example, I was shocked to see a prefect and a sub-prefect strongly suggest this week to some 30 mayors to go to a meeting imposed on one of your colleagues who, every day, wonders if he will remain in the Government. If they did not go, they were threatened with no further grants during their term of office. This prefect and this sub-prefect have nothing to do with it; They would have held a whole different language at another time. I therefore feel it necessary to reflect on the establishment of a new type of association, which takes the place left vacant by the State. In this area, he decided that France no longer existed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u33	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u34	Madam President, Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with 13 million volunteers and 1.3 million associations, the voluntary sector is essential to the cohesion of our society. Associations are at the heart of a society of trust and mutual assistance. Engagement in an association, whether cultural, sporting, educational or humanitarian, is a factor of development for the French and, above all, of collective development. The associations participate fully in the animation and attractiveness of our territories. They play a fundamental role in the fight against social inequalities, the preservation of the environment, the defence of rights or economic development, to name but a few areas of intervention. Creating social ties, they are valuable relays for the State in several fields of public action. This is why it is essential to give them the keys necessary to carry out their actions and to implement their projects. That is the whole objective of the action we are going to take. The bill that we are considering today will clarify certain points. It encourages the assumption of responsibility by volunteer leaders by protecting them more in the event of mismanagement. It also reinforces awareness of associative life from the CM2, as well as in colleges and high schools, to lay the foundations of a society of engagement. While these measures are important, they represent only a first step in the policy that we want to take for associative life. Several measures have already demonstrated our political will. We have increased appropriations for the voluntary sector by 10% compared to the 2017 budget. We have allocated more credits to civic service, a mechanism that has been very successful. The Fund for the Development of Associative Life will receive an additional €25 million. This fund is intended to support associations, especially the most fragile and small ones, by providing responses to their needs as closely as possible. The Government will soon detail the major plan of action for associative life, on which it has been working for several months in cooperation with professionals in the sector. This is a subject which I am very much interested in and which I had already mentioned during the consideration of the motion for a resolution tabled by the MODEM Group in October. I carry it all year round in my constituency, where I often meet with associations to understand their issues. We all know examples of volunteer actions that we want to support in the name of a collective commitment. Associations need financial and material resources. They are confronted with the changes in our society and must be accompanied in their evolution. In this context, the houses of the associations are an interesting lever, since they allow to provide administrative but also material support to the local associations. They also encourage community employment by providing support to volunteer leaders and networking. These association houses deserve to be carried on our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have also been working for several months in the working group dedicated to associative life, in order to propose concrete measures. We are determined to move forward on the three axes identified by the Government. We want to do everything possible to develop a renewed policy of support and support for associations, support their activities of social utility and enable a better exploitation of volunteerism. To this end, I work in collaboration with the Jeune Chambre économique française, whose ambition is to foster citizen engagement and the professional integration of young people. It carries an interesting citizen CV initiative to showcase volunteer engagement experiences. It is now our responsibility to do everything we can to encourage the implementation of this type of initiative and to facilitate voluntary engagement. That is why the La République en marche group will vote today in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u35	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u36	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, the rapporteur, we are talking about community involvement. What is commitment? It is love, the gift of one's time at the service of a cause, a cultural, sports discipline, or assistance to others and citizens. For what purpose? Development and emancipation, as has been repeatedly recalled. The role of associations is to unite us around values, projects, and to find the Republic in the first sense of the term: res publica, the collective spirit. This is why a form of French genius has been identified in the associative system. It is a French art, and it should be recognized as such. Volunteers, professionals, and leaders who live in the fabric of associations are faced with obstacles. As has been pointed out, the funding system is very complex, almost unreadable. In order to obtain funds, it is necessary to apply to a town hall, sometimes to omnisport clubs, to agglomerations, communities of communes, regions and the State, sometimes represented by seven or eight ministries. This necessarily makes the system inaccessible. As we pointed out with Marie-George Buffet in our report on the reduction of assisted jobs in cultural and sports associations, our role should be to bring about real simplification by creating a one-stop shop, which allows us to have all the information on training and financing, to connect associations with each other to share administrative and projects, to create a single fund instead of funds distributed over eight ministries. This would allow us to have support for voluntary employment – not assisted jobs – to give these projects more power and to support community associations, in neighbourhoods and rural areas, in order to facilitate access to culture, education and sport. This would, in our view, justify a state secretariat for associative life, which would be an institutional benchmark for these millions of volunteers and associations. This would also make it easier for us to apply for European funds, which we do not use enough; The best would be the Poles. It is up to us, French, to look for the hundreds of millions that would allow, in addition to Mr Juanico's proposals, to support our associations for the formation and development of joint projects. The State has taken a number of actions since the beginning of the year: the round tables, the tax credit on the tax on wages, which benefits associations, the free jobs, the French Impact, the reform of the governance of the federations which is expected to be effective in January 2019 and the Fund for the development of the associative life, which was voted last November. The bill before us is important, but at the moment it is only a grain of sand on the paradise beach that must be built for our community fabric.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u37	[[Smile]] It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u38	We must propose and demonstrate to France that we too can join forces to carry out a major systemic project and go further in the proposals we made this morning. Thus, artificial intelligence at the service of the human, mentioned by Cédric Villani, could serve, in the daily life of all volunteers, to alleviate their small administrative and financial hassles and to allocate more time to the donation to the other. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the NG and GDR groups]] We will always go in the direction of supporting associations. All the action of the Government and the majority has one goal: to put passion back at the heart of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u39	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u40	I will reply briefly and, if possible, synthetically to all the speakers, starting with what has just been said: indeed, putting passion back at the heart of the nation seems to me to be an excellent motto which, moreover, seems to me to illustrate what we have just experienced this morning. This is a very positive note because, by listening to you, I was thinking of other assemblies, other parliaments, other countries, and I was thinking that it would not be everywhere else that such unanimity would prevail on such principles. I think it is to be welcomed: we see on every bench a commitment to what was explicit and even initiated by the 1901 law – which, in a way, is the result of the French genius – which crystallized the essential: the spirit of commitment, the spirit of gift, the spirit of solidarity, the spirit of patriotism on a national or other scale. It is not for nothing that this law is now considered to have constitutional value; it is not for nothing that we constantly refer to it and that, in the end, it has passed into common language. We must welcome such moments! The speakers have put forward many common points, both by welcoming the principles, what is happening, this bill and by noting a number of shortcomings and needs – even on this last point, I think we will all agree on the understanding that there may be some detailed disagreements: the most important is what unites us, what I want to return to quickly. First of all, when we welcome the state of associative life in France, we actually welcome a vision shared by society as a whole on this issue. I do not go back to the figures that have already been given, but they must encourage us to be optimistic. Yes, there are ever more volunteers, although some are reluctant to take on leadership roles for the reasons that have been said. The desire to engage in volunteering is still very strong and we are going to increase it further – I also note a very broad consensus on the issues raised in section 2 of the bill. As Minister of National Education, I will obviously be very attentive not only to his letter but to his spirit and I have the feeling that you will all support me. Mr Juanico referred to the issue of the civic libretto. That it was not issued in 2017 can be explained by the rather recent nature of this system, which will be revisited in the light of the dynamism of civic engagement that we want and that we must moreover link to the future project of universal service. In other words, it is necessary to work to an "upstream" effect for engagement during this period of life which corresponds to the end of schooling, about the age of 16-18, so that, from the college, civic engagement translates or writes through a document. Rather than juxtaposing the devices, we need to have an overall view of these issues. Article 1e r and its issues have been an opportunity for many of you to highlight the difficulties faced by associations. Of course, there are, and they are not, a year old, and we must have the honesty to recognize it. We must also have the honesty to say that some difficulties are more recent. So the transition from aided contracts to other arrangements has sometimes been a difficulty for associations, I readily admit, but it must not obscure everything that has been positive for a year, including financial ones – I have already had the opportunity to say so in this House, but I would like to remind you that it will not be a truth to repeat the opposite. Financial efforts have been made at the national level for associations and, today, prospects are being established. Perhaps they are insufficient and will certainly have to be supplemented by other legal and financial arrangements, but let us not hide what has been done or what is in perspective. Indeed, all the tax schemes in favour of associations, in the draft finance law for 2018, represent 2.7 billion euros. In 2019, the long-term reduction in employers' contributions to the voluntary sector will represent 1.4 billion. It will see, it will be considerable – it is also one of the characteristics of this Government to sometimes place itself in medium- and long-term perspectives, to build the future, to sow seeds. When the time comes, we will see what will happen, but on these issues, we must not put ourselves in a vicious circle of distrust: yes, of course, this Government – you hear it by my voice – actually supports the community world and will do it ever more. This will also be the case with the FDVA, as I have been asked some questions about it. The Order-in-Council, to be signed by three ministers, will be issued either at the end of the week or at the beginning of next week. Its content corresponds to what we have said here: it is a matter of distributing fairly on a local level the funds that once belonged to the parliamentary reserve, in a necessarily different spirit, since this was the intention of the Government and this Assembly as early as last year. Local elected representatives, who account for half of those who sit, will be very strongly associated. The interests of rural areas must also be kept in mind – I recalled the nature of the distribution mechanism that exists in questions to the Government; It guarantees, for half, something equivalent for all departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u41	Without the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u42	With local elected officials and without parliamentarians for both legal reasons – which it would be a bit long to explain – but also for reasons of principle since the transition from one system to another has certainly allowed to give weight to local elected officials but also to change logic in relation to what the parliamentary reserve was.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u43	That's very good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u44	I will not go back to all the discussions that have taken place in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To conclude: your interventions open up very important perspectives. Even the authors of the bill have the modesty and the strength to consider this a step in a more global construction, as has been said and repeated – and we will agree. This bill is very interesting and that is why you have all said so favorably. Its two articles open up horizons but also, since our November discussion, a new perspective in order to have a complete vision of a strategy for associations. As you know, youth and associative life are part of my ministerial responsibilities. Associative life is the responsibility of several ministries, if only because of the areas concerned, but this overall strategy goes by asserting itself through the financial commitments that I have just recalled, through this political vision widely shared by all of us and, finally, through an organisational vision at the service of the territories which I believe is absolutely essential and which we will naturally support over the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u45	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u46	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u47	This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, proposes a reformulation. Indeed, I wonder about the need to include all legal persons in the provision. The original text of article L. 651-2 of the Commercial Code provides that "a mere negligence of the officer de jure or de facto in the management of his company" does not incur his liability "for insufficiency of assets". Replace "society" with "corporation" in this article seems to us to be too broad a wording. In order for the future provision to be more in line with the terms of this bill in favour of associative engagement, we propose instead to add to the last sentence, after the word "society", the words "or association law 1901". Thus, we will limit exceptions to the implementation of the responsibility of the presidents of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u49	The committee rejected this amendment. The proposed wording makes it possible to restore overall consistency to Article L.651-2 of the Commercial Code, the first sentence of which already uses the term "legal person". This allows the exclusion of corporate directors from liability in the event of mere negligence to be extended to the directors of associations which did not fall within the scope of the scheme. The leaders of other legal entities – for example, foundations, particularly recognized as being of public utility – could also be involved. Finally, the objective pursued is consistent with that which led to the introduction of this limitation of liability for companies by the Law of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u51	I understand the meaning of this amendment and I agree with it, but the bill only applies to associations and not to foundations, mutuals or other bodies. Unfavorable opinion on the form because in order to restrict the scope of the measure it would be necessary to refer specifically to associations governed by the law of 1 July 1901 on the contract of association or by the civil code applicable to the departments of Bas-Rhin, Haut-Rhin and Moselle. For this reason, please withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u52	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u53	Just a clarification, beyond the reply of the rapporteur and the minister, to which I fully subscribe. However, this amendment has the merit of showing that, in the end, the CEO is better protected than the volunteer president of an association – that's what you said earlier, minister. It is eloquent: a provision of the Commercial Code is used to better protect voluntary presidents of associations. This is all the more proof of the need to act and to do so pragmatically. [[Smile]] Last point. You rightly stress that not all associations fall within the scope of the 1901 law since, I would like to remind you, the local law of Alsace-Moselle had specified the status of associations one year before it! I'm not saying that local law has been ahead of national law but, at last, sometimes...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u54	Do you maintain your amendment, Mr. Member?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u56	I call Mr Sorre to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u57	The purpose of this amendment is to simplify the wording of Article 1, i.e. to delete the end of paragraph 3 after the word "leader". To date, only simple negligence could relieve a leader of his or her responsibility despite his or her inaction. However, judges sometimes take into account the status of the volunteer, as a possible source of negligence specific to a non-professional, to enable him or her to discharge his or her responsibility more easily. It seems useful to codify this point in the case law. However, in addition to being a voluntary association, the bill refers to the means available to the leader to carry out his or her activities. However, acts or omissions contrary to the interests of an organization cannot be assessed materially in the light of these hypothetical means. It therefore seems more appropriate not to impose this cumulative condition and to remain as a volunteer, which the judge, in our view, will appreciate differently and more favorably.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u59	In addition to being a volunteer of the leader, the text refers to the means available to the leader to carry out his or her work when the court considers the existence of a mismanagement. The criteria are therefore cumulative. But the mere mention of the leader's volunteer status would seem to be a more operational and objective criterion for magistrates and would also offer maximum guarantees to the voluntary leader. That is why I am issuing a favourable opinion on this amendment, which has been accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u61	The bill, in addition to being a volunteer of the leader, refers to the means available to him to carry out his work. However, acts or omissions contrary to the interests of an organization cannot be assessed materially in the light of the supposed effective means available to its head. Judges may not examine in concrete terms the reasons for the acts or commissions. Judicial decisions thus do not refer to means, as each body and individual has different means. The proposal for a law is intended to give extraordinary discretion to the judges, who will have to assess the inconclusive fault, taking into account the exact means available to the volunteer in question. To mention these means would lead to a subjective assessment of the fault, which is a source of insecurity, as it would leave too much room for appreciation. It therefore seems appropriate not to impose a cumulative condition of insufficient resources to stick to the sole condition of volunteer status. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u62	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u63	I would like to say a word about this amendment which has been accepted under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. If, in this Article 1, the parallelism of the forms between the Commercial Code in its action in full liability and the Civil Code is not debated, I find it important, however, to mention that this amendment seeks to delete. I understand the legal arguments that have just been put forward by the minister, but there are jurisprudences that indicate that volunteer status cannot completely exempt leaders from their responsibilities for insufficient assets. However, it seems to me that, while it was important to mitigate the sentences handed down in this capacity against voluntary leaders, it was only in the case of a judicial liquidation of the association. In this regard, I believe that the original wording of the text was preferable. I am therefore not in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u64	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u65	It is true that association presidents often have too few means at their disposal to assess the real financial and cash situation of their association. It's a fact. But the amendment drew our attention to the fact that this mention might complicate the action of the judge because of its binding nature. In the end, in my personal capacity, I have therefore agreed to the solution that he proposes, which seems to me to give the judge greater latitude. The initial drafting could have had a counterproductive effect in relation to the objective we are pursuing. In this sense, I think this is a good amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u66	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u67	With this amendment, we call for a report on the implementation of a status of volunteers. This report will seek to achieve a clear dissociation between the conventions that bind volunteers and the criteria of a contract of employment, and will analyse the relevance of the implementation of new rights for volunteers. Let me give an example to illustrate my point. On 20 December 2017, the Social Chamber of the Court of Cassation reclassified a voluntary agreement as an employment contract, on the grounds that the person concerned had to perform tasks unilaterally defined by the association, to be satisfied with two days' rest per week, one Saturday and one Sunday per month, six holidays and five weeks' leave per year and that he had to avoid being absent during the attendance hours without having been previously and expressly authorized to do so. The status of volunteers regularly raises questions, both from the point of view of its dissociation with paid employment, and in terms of the rights available to volunteers. Thus, a wide-ranging reflection must be able to engage in the implementation of a real status, protecting people who are committed to the common good and allowing associations to use volunteerism in an easier and less risky way. A report would be a good start to moving forward on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u68	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u69	The representatives of the associations we interviewed told us that they were not in favour of defining a particular status for volunteers, especially since there is a risk of requalification into a contract of employment, which would create an additional difficulty. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u70	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u71	The amendment is interesting. The question of the appropriateness of defining the status of the volunteer has been a matter of debate for several years. However, the idea of establishing a volunteer status does not gather a converging and favourable opinion within the community movement, as it may seem contradictory to the very nature of volunteerism, which is a gift of free and free time. From a practical point of view, the wide variety of forms of volunteering would make it difficult to define such a status. On the other hand, the public authorities have regularly taken measures giving more rights to volunteers – this is still the case today. Finally, government departments are already working with the Labour Inspectorate to identify volunteer mission cards at major sporting or cultural events. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u72	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u73	The amendment by Mr Adrien Quatennens raises good questions. With regard to the opportunity to request a new report from the Government, I am in a very poor position to give lessons, since I myself have obtained a report from the Government on inactive accounts, and I hope that we can make concrete progress on this issue in the context of a forthcoming legislative vehicle. In substance, that is to say, on the question of the appropriateness of defining a status of volunteerism, my personal position, which I believe is shared by many colleagues and leaders of the voluntary movement, is that defining a status of volunteer may kill volunteerism. Pierre-Alain Raphan recalled it in a rather poetic way earlier: volunteering is a gift of self, a free gift. We need to put in place mechanisms for valuing and recognizing commitment and volunteerism so that it doesn't cost the volunteer who is committed, which would be a big deal. We referred earlier to the citizen engagement account and volunteer leave. Why not consider, subsequently, the possibility of benefiting from additional retirement quarters as a voluntary activity? We must explore all these avenues and simplify the voluntary commitment in administrative and legal terms, but I do not believe that a statute is necessary. On the other hand, it seems to me to be really important to work on the question of the frontier between volunteering and wage-earning, and the questions asked by our colleague Adrien Quatennens are important from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u74	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u75	As a follow-up to Mr Juanico's speech, and in connection with what the Minister has just announced, I would like to say that we are indeed quite sensitive to the proposal made by our colleague Adrien Quatennens. Even if we are going to vote against this amendment, I think it is drawing up ways of working on the status of the volunteer that we need to explore together, because we need to go much further in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u76	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u77	It is obvious that we will have to work on this subject, for the good reason that volunteering is, by definition, a free commitment, as the Minister and Régis Juanico have pointed out very well. But in the example I gave you, it was this very freedom that was called into question. It seems to us that the definition of a statute is one of the avenues to be considered, hence our request for a report. In any case, the question of volunteerism, its place and the conditions under which it is exercised must be the subject of real reflection, because the freedom that underpins it is sometimes undermined. The submission of a report could be the first step in this work that you too call your wishes. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u78	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u79	This amendment also seeks to request a report on the state of associative engagement in France. We recommend that this report bring together experts from the voluntary sector, local and regional authorities and the State. He will have to consider the relevance of allowing employees to devote themselves, on their professional time, to the voluntary activity of their choice, through the allocation of a voluntary time credit to any employee. Finally, it will consider allowing volunteers to obtain retirement points, as well as adequate medical coverage related to their activities within the association. I would point out that this measure was recommended in a report of our assembly on April 15, 2015, entitled "Unlocking the commitment of the French and reshaping the civic bond". The Equality and Citizenship Act made it possible to take a first step, with a new right of discharge for some volunteers. We believe that this provision should be extended to all. The report requested would allow us to see more clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u82	My colleague, even if your proposal is interesting, as your colleague has already made, the committee has rejected this amendment. Apart from the fact that it goes far beyond the scope of the bill, I would like to remind you once again that, for the voluntary sector, volunteerism must be based on voluntary commitment and free of charge, which excludes any consideration. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u84	With this amendment, you are asking for a report on the advisability of creating a time credit for employees or health insurance. I would like to point out that the leave of voluntary leaders – because it is the busiest ones – was introduced in the Labour Code by the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship. In addition, health insurance is already possible: in order to take account of the situation of volunteers, Article L. 743-2 of the Social Security Code allows associations of general interest to take out voluntary insurance for the benefit of their volunteers, covering the risks of occupational accidents and diseases arising in the course of their activities. For these two reasons, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u85	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u86	I would like to point out to our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon that, on the many issues raised by his amendment, there are already many reports, some of them of parliamentary origin. Our former colleague, Alain Bocquet, and Françoise Dumas submitted a report a little more than three years ago which gives a very precise account of the difficulties of the community world. The High Council for Associative Life and the voluntary world itself have also produced many works. With regard to the specific issue of voluntary leave, which the Minister has just mentioned, we obtained in 2014 under Benoît Hamon's law on the social and solidarity economy, that the Government gives us a report on the subject. We have never received it, but you, dear colleague, will be able to ask the present government, which should be able to find it in its archives. In any case, we have been able to make progress on this issue within the framework of the Equality and Citizenship Act, with voluntary employment leave. As I said earlier, it would be a good thing, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, to examine how this measure has actually been implemented, to ensure that volunteers have been informed of it and, above all, that they can dispose of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u87	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u88	I just want to point out that last November, the Prime Minister ordered a report from the associations. This report, which is expected to be submitted to HCVA in the near future, will give us a very precise state of affairs and answer your questions. It will provide a basis for work and will undoubtedly enable the Government to make announcements which we look forward to and which I am sure will meet the expectations of the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u89	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u90	Again, it is a question of the associative involvement of the assets. As I said earlier in the gallery, associations are struggling to recruit people in work for a variety of reasons: working time, family life, etc. There are, therefore, significant age differences between young people and "always young" pensioners in the associative world. With this amendment, I therefore ask the Government to submit to Parliament a report on actions that could encourage the engagement of assets. Our colleague Juanico referred to the provisions on voluntary leave contained in the Equality and Citizenship Act, two thirds of which were rejected by the Constitutional Council. My proposal goes much further, since it is a matter of considering the possibilities of adjusting working time without penalising it, in consultation with employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u92	Unfavorable. I would remind you once again that the HCVA has before it all the bills and decrees concerning associations, which may themselves refer them, under certain conditions, to any matter of interest to them as a whole. The HCVA also produces quality reports on the world of associations. Many of the amendments go far beyond the scope of the bill; With regard to requests for reports, they would benefit from being addressed to the bodies specifically established for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u94	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u95	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u96	Article L. 312-15 of the Education Code will soon provide that moral and civic education will raise awareness of civic service among secondary and secondary school students. To the extent that associations are at the heart of our country's challenges, it is important that this education also includes an awareness of associative life, in order to value volunteerism and associations with our young fellow citizens. This is done with article 2 of this bill, which amends the Education Code by including in it awareness of associative life as well as civic service, within the framework of the moral and civic education of the pupils of CM2, college and high school. The associative fabric remains too unknown for adolescents and especially for students, and it is essential that teachers inspire the desire of younger people to take an interest in it, at a time when France has no less than 13 million volunteers. From experience, we know that raising awareness in schools or universities usually leads young people to become more involved. Youth is an important pool of recruits of choice, who demonstrate motivation and want to develop their skills – including relational ones – in the defence of a cause. Thus, it is essential to enable them to gain access to the community through their school education, starting in the fourth grade, then in college, high school and university. While these young people are, for a large part of them, registered in various sports, artistic or leisure associations, it is important in our view that they be able to grasp the architecture and functioning of these neighbourhood structures in order to nurture their curiosity, interest and ultimately encourage their commitment. Immersion in a local association during the third stage could also be an interesting avenue to dig. Most teachers recognize the value of encouraging young people to engage in an association as citizens; It is therefore necessary to establish and stimulate the desire to act of the students as early as the fourth grade. The presentation of the associative world and of the associative life as a whole will allow an opening to the external environment of the students. Article 2 is therefore in the right direction and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u97	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u98	My colleague Stéphane Testé has just said very well what I was about to say about Article 2. We can therefore avoid my intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u99	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u100	In order to ensure that awareness of associative life provided for in article 2 of this bill is made in the most useful and didactic way possible for pupils, this amendment proposes that the Ministry of Education should publish a booklet for the educational community, allowing it to become familiar with the community and the links that can be created between associations and schools. In this way, teachers will be equipped to raise students' awareness of associative life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u102	As I said during the examination of the text in committee, I am in favour of anything that can encourage young people to become involved in the voluntary sector. The publication, by the Ministry of National Education, of a booklet for the educational community, familiarizing it with the community and the links that can be created between associations and schools, would make it possible to raise students' awareness of associative life in the most useful and didactic way possible. The committee has therefore accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u104	This amendment, of which I share the spirit, arouses my full interest. Little reservation, however: I am not sure that its content falls within the realm of the law. I therefore give a favourable opinion tinged with wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u105	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u106	I would like to understand the articulation between what Stéphane Testé proposes and the booklet which, together with Régis Juanico, has been mentioned as useful for the years to come. Will the two things be combined?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u107	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u108	These are two different things. The booklet referred to in this amendment is an evolving text, by definition, to be revised. The Ministry of National Education can be asked to publish such a document regularly and to make a reference to it; This is in line with the objective of section 2 of this bill. As for the end-of-third booklet, it would be more of a certificate that would devote a journey. All this is obviously connected; But not everything falls within the scope of the law, which is why my answer is quite favourable on the substance of the citizenship booklet. We need to adopt a systemic view of the problem in order to avoid juxtaposing the right ideas which, when combined, might not form a very clear set. In spirit, therefore, I will be faithful to all these proposals, but there must be flexibility in the ministry to arrange them in a coherent, clear and feasible manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u109	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u110	This bill seeks, in a very commendable way, to raise awareness among young people of community involvement, particularly in schools. The amendment I am proposing provides them with a real experience, at least half a day, with an association that interests them, in order to become familiar with the issues inherent in the maintenance and functioning of an association. This half-day would be worth several hours of lessons and would be a very effective complement to the work done in the classroom; All the teachers will say so, and I'm sure you'll agree with me. You will no doubt – and I understand you – answer me by referring to article L. 312-15 of the Education Code, but my amendment goes further by integrating into civic education this time of immersion in association, as is done for the discovery of the professional world, in the fourth or third. It could be a half-day, and I am sure that the associations would be open to this reception which could also value them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u113	Everything that can encourage young people to become involved in the community world is, in my view, in the right direction; However, the Education Code already provides that in the context of moral and civic education, students and high school students are encouraged to participate in a citizen project within an association of general interest. Moreover, it is not certain that all associations are able to accommodate young people within them; for small associations, in small towns, this can be complicated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u115	Your amendment proposes that high school students participate, during the school year, in a half-day immersion in an association of their choice. Of course, I agree with the aim of making young people aware of the world of associations by means of practical experience. Article 33 of the Equality and Citizenship Act provides that students and high school students must be encouraged to participate in a citizen project within an association of general interest, in the context of civic and moral education. The same law also allowed minors to establish and run an association without prior authorization from the age of sixteen: it is now referred to as a pre-majority association. But the school's mission is to make the young person's commitment an individual and voluntary approach, which the mandatory nature of this amendment may weaken. Moreover, the duration of the internship you offer – half a day – is too short to really familiarize high school students with the functioning of an association. This course could also represent, as the rapporteur has just noted, an important logistical constraint for certain associations, particularly the smaller ones. The inspiration is good, of course, and the idea needs to be discussed; This path can be explored during the discussions on the future universal national service and its upstream implications, which I mentioned earlier. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment, which, however, arouses my full interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u116	Madam Member, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u117	I keep it and I point out that half a day is indeed the minimum duration!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u118	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u119	The amendment aims to allow access to civic service for Algerian nationals legally residing in France, under the same conditions as foreigners governed by the Code on the Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the Right of Asylum, CESEDA. This would reduce unequal access to civic service, strengthening national cohesion; It would also allow as many young people as possible to engage and participate in the common interest in the respect and defence of the values of the Republic. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Yannick Blanc, President of the Civic Service Agency and the association Adéquation Fleury-Mérogis, who alerted me to this very important point. I hope that my proposal will be welcomed with the greatest benevolence by national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u121	Mr President, the committee has accepted this amendment. Even if I consider that its link with the text is quite tenuous, it aims to remedy an injustice by allowing access to civic service for Algerian nationals legally residing in France, under the same conditions as foreigners governed by CESEDA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u123	This amendment effectively corrects a material error in the Equality and Citizenship Act, which curiously excluded Algerian nationals from the scheme. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u124	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u125	I am fortunate to represent the National Assembly at the Civic Service Agency: this is a very interesting mission. At the last meeting of the Strategic Committee, as we discussed international issues, representatives of the voluntary sector raised this issue: they see it as an injustice to those people who cannot claim civic service. I therefore think that the world of associations would be happy if, by adopting this amendment, we were able to resolve the difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u126	We come to Amendment No 5, which is before me by the Group of the European People's Party, a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Remi Delatte has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u127	We should all support this amendment because it would strengthen social and societal cohesion. It aims to restore the exemption from financial guarantee granted to actors who organise collective receptions of minors – ACM. This exemption is currently provided for by law, but will be challenged as from 1 July 2015 by the transposition of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 known as the "Travel Directive". The actors who provide these ACMs are non-profit public education associations; They allow more than 1.2 million young people to go on holiday each year, for leisure time. I believe that each of us recognizes that these organizations play an essential role in popular education. It is all the more important that 3 million young people, adolescents, cannot go on vacation. These actors organize educational, educational and playful activities, which are – as you said a moment ago, Minister – useful for the individual construction, the emancipation, the socialization of our young people. Yesterday, during the current affairs session of the Government, you were quite reassuring on this subject. For my part, I believe that it is important to include this exemption from financial guarantee in the legislation: on the eve of the holidays, it would make it possible to reassure many families, many of the agencies that take care of minors. This would help above all to preserve these associative structures whose finances are often very fragile and would send a positive message to our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u129	The committee has rejected this amendment, which is largely outside the scope of this text. Moreover, according to a reply from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to a parliamentary question, "the inability to maintain the old derogation was confirmed by the European Commission during the workshops to transpose" the Travel Directive. Work is under way to find legal solutions to overcome the impasse. It is also necessary to reassure the organizers of the ACMs who would choose to play the game of the directive. Several agencies hosting minors have already registered, and there are solutions to ensure that the cost of registration and financial guarantee is not prohibitive. In addition, non-profit associations and organizations retain the possibility of sheltering themselves behind the guarantee of a registered federation or union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u131	Mr President, I fully understand the concerns expressed by your amendment regarding the transposition of the Travel Directive. As you said, I had the opportunity to address this issue here on Tuesday morning, during the oral question-and-answer session without debate, and Wednesday afternoon, during the question-and-answer session of the Government. You have rightly described my comments on this as "reassuring". The aim of the Travel Directive is to ensure a high level of protection for travellers: as such, it is very beneficial. At the end of 2017, as part of the transposition of this directive, we were led to remove associations organising collective receptions of minors from the list of bodies excluded from the registration obligation, thus obliging them to justify a sufficient financial guarantee and to take out insurance. However, this does not mean that all the organizers of ACMs, which do not all fall within the scope of this directive, are included in the scope of registration. This does not apply to approved associations, such as youth and popular education associations, the sports sector or supplementary educational associations in public education, which organise MCAs in the national territory. These associations, which fulfil a mission of general educational and sporting interest, contribute to the strengthening of the social link and promote access to holidays and leisure activities for all children, in particular the 3 million who are not lucky enough to go on holiday. In addition, legal persons governed by public law, including local authorities, who also act in the general interest for educational or sporting purposes, are also, for the same reasons as recognised associations, outside the scope of the Directive. Third, ACMs without accommodation – leisure receptions, youth receptions, scouting receptions without accommodation – do not fall within the scope of this Directive either, since their operating period covers less than 24 hours and they do not include overnight stays. Finally, associations and non-profit organizations belonging to a federation or a declared union which guarantee them are not required to comply with the conditions of registration, provided that they are registered. I think I've provided you with the necessary answers. In view of this, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment; In the absence of a withdrawal, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u132	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u133	I am surprised and disappointed: when I listened to you yesterday, I thought you had opened a path that we could have taken together. Of course, there are derogations: you have recalled them. But this does not prevent many organizations, which do not benefit from this derogation, from facing new difficulties. It's really a shame, especially on the eve of the holidays. Madam rapporteur, I do not believe that this amendment is out of the question. On the contrary, this is an opportunity for us to catch up, to take account of something that had escaped us at the time of transposition. In order to do so, we must, in full transparency, incorporate this provision into this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u134	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u135	I agree with Mr Delatte on one point: it is essential to include this derogation in the marble, because it would make it possible to reassure these structures as to their sustainability. I welcome the vigilance of Members sitting on all benches with regard to the transposition of the Travel Directive. However, it seems to me that this amendment would be more appropriate in the context of the ratification of the order transposing this directive. I'm one of those who raised the problem. It's about supporting associations that support our rural, coastal and mountain areas – it's true that this last category is not represented in my constituency. But to do the right thing, it is necessary to put this provision in the marble of the ratification law: that is how we can break the nail. For my part, I was reassured by the detailed elements that the minister gave us yesterday, which he repeated today. I will join your proposal in a second phase, Mr. Delatte, in considering the bill to ratify the Order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u136	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u137	This amendment gives Members of the La République Group an opportunity to affirm their support for the ACMs, which allow many children from very disadvantaged families who do not usually go on holiday to enjoy the summer period as well. It is important to strengthen these ACMs, regardless of the structures that organize them. Of course, we share the questions raised about the Travel Directive, but the Minister gave us all the necessary guarantees by speaking on this subject yesterday in questions to the Government and this morning in relation to this amendment, concerning the protection granted to collective reception of minors. We will therefore vote against this amendment, while at the same time taking care of the difficulties that the Travel Directive could bring to the ACMs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u138	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u139	If I understand what has just been said, all the lights are green: let's go, let's put these protective provisions of the ACM into the law right now! You are telling us, Minister, that our fears in this regard are not justified, but we could take this step as a precaution today. Popular education associations working in this field have been subject to many obstacles in recent years. Popular education itself has been severely restricted by the commercialization of the sector. It is therefore necessary to send a strong signal in favour of women and men who are engaged in this field, who support popular education. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] We will vote in favour of this amendment, because we believe that we could already include this protection in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u140	I put Amendment No. 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u141	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u142	For professionally active community leaders, the organization of their time schedule is usually a matter of the combatant's career path. This amendment aims to encourage associative involvement, in order to avoid blocking those who have the will to put themselves at the service of others by cumulating this activity with a daily employee. To this end, it tends to allow these employees to organise with their employer a system whereby certain working hours are regularly or occasionally freed up by catching up on their working time. It is therefore not, I insist, a system of reduction but of compensation of hours: there is no harm to the employer. This proposal differs from the leave already provided for in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u144	The committee rejected this amendment on the grounds that the Labour Code already provides for a specific leave of absence, the voluntary leader's leave of absence from association.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u145	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u146	In the list of reasons for discouraging the vocations of volunteer leaders, there is the question of skills. The purpose of this amendment is to allow community leaders, with the agreement of the local executive and if this does not result in additional costs for the community concerned, to attend the training sessions planned for the territorial public service officers of the communities to which the association relates, within one session per year and per person.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u147	On the following amendment, No 18, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u148	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u149	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 11?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u150	The committee rejected this amendment. It comes from a good intention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u151	Like all our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u152	... but care must be taken to ensure that the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities is respected, which means that they should not be subject to constraints which they have not previously assumed, in particular additional financial constraints.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u153	But the amendment makes it clear that "if this does not result in additional costs for the community concerned"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u154	Please let the rapporteur speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u155	I'm almost done, Madam President, I just have to say: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u157	-Favourable, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u158	I would like to please you, Madam Member, but the training of public and private law personnel of local and regional authorities is essentially provided by the National Centre for Territorial Civil Service (CNFPT); These trainings give rise to the payment of a compulsory contribution from the local authorities to the CNFPT. The participation of association leaders in these trainings would therefore not be without financial implications for the communities. Moreover, the content of these technical trainings is not always adapted to volunteers: for example, public accounting, public procurement. Sometimes, therefore, these trainings are too sectoral. Finally, it seems to me that your amendment ignores the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. I therefore ask you to withdraw it, failing which the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u159	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u160	I don't think we're talking exactly about the same training. I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u161	I have before me an amendment No 18, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 19. I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u162	The commitment to associative life often represents heavy sacrifices in the professional and personal life of men and women volunteers, who dedicate themselves daily to the service of their fellow citizens – we are all witnessing this in our respective constituencies. This commitment, however useful it may be, is not taken into account in the opening of pension rights. While every taxpayer who makes a donation to a recognized public utility association benefits from a tax advantage, those of our fellow citizens who invest daily in associations of general interest and who assume often heavy responsibilities, do not get any benefit – other than their own satisfaction in serving a just cause of course. The idea of granting a gratuity to association leaders through the allocation of additional retirement points has been mentioned for several years. The bill that I introduced in the previous Parliament was in that direction. It had been examined in a public sitting as part of an IDU niche, but had, unfortunately, been referred back to committee. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is appropriate today to take up this subject again and finally to give the leaders of associations the recognition they deserve. This is the purpose of this amendment, which seeks, failing to include the operative part of the law today as proposed in the original amendment declared inadmissible, to request a report from the Government "in order to assess the appropriateness of validating an additional quarter, in the calculation of pensions, to the members of a non-profit association, a declared or recognized association of public utility or an association of general interest, for ten years of exercise of responsibilities within the office".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u165	The committee has rejected this amendment because I would like to point out that the High Council for Association Life is the most relevant body for the production of reports on the subject and that, moreover, voluntary work in the voluntary sector must be based on voluntary commitment and freedom, which excludes any direct consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u167	I would add to what the rapporteur has just said that this idea, which is interesting in itself and attractive, has already been expertised, since important inter-ministerial work has been carried out to find out what would be the cost of such a measure: from the first year of application, its cost was estimated at at least 400 million euros, and on the basis of a rather restrictive assumption – the purchase of quarters for the most regular volunteers, i.e. committing more than fifty hours per month for more than ten years. I share, of course, the honourable Member's desire to value the commitment of volunteers, but the path you are proposing seems to be extremely costly for public finances. That is why the Government is giving an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u168	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u169	It's not about paying for volunteer work, so it wouldn't be. It is only a gesture of gratitude to those who take on responsibilities as president, treasurer or secretary in an association, because, as several colleagues said during the general discussion, it is difficult to renew the members of the offices. They are often the same as we find in our villages from one association to another. I believe that a time will come when this commitment will have to be recognised in a very concrete way, under pain of having a real crisis of this human resource, yet so extraordinary since it makes our territories, especially our rural territories, attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u171	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u172	The IUD, Action and Independent Group supports this amendment, and I call on my other colleagues to do the same. I would remind you that this is only a report. Mr Minister, what is EUR 400 million a year in terms of the role played by all the associations in our territories and the savings in public expenditure that this represents in terms of welcoming young people, for animation in the field of sport and in the field of culture, for the defence of heritage, and I shall pass it on? I don't think it's huge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u173	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LR group]] I don't even think it's very high. It would therefore be worthwhile to re-examine the issue from a new perspective. I understand the rapporteur's argument that it would be up to the High Council to make this report, but there is nothing to prevent the Government from ordering it, and then handing the fruit of this work to Parliament itself. There is nothing to prevent this from happening in the amendment tabled here. The reasons put forward by the rapporteur and by the minister are not justified and must, however, lead us to vote on this amendment in order to see, when reading the report, whether to go further or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u175	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Sorre, and then the minister, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u176	The La République group is listening to the arguments of our colleagues at the IDU, but the idea of integrating a financial concept into associative investment would, in our view, distort the voluntary commitment since, by definition, when you are a volunteer, you carry out your activity without waiting for remuneration. We will not vote for this amendment, which goes against what we consider to be volunteering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u177	You've never been president of an association!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u178	Everyone's vision!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u179	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u180	I would like to extend what Bertrand Sorre has said: one can also think of all the perverse effects that might result from such an idea. And perhaps I wasn't precise enough just now, so I would like to reiterate very clearly that the figure of 400 million euros had been reached on the basis of a really minimal assumption, since only the purchase of quarters for the most regular volunteers was envisaged, those who have been committing more than fifty hours a month for more than ten years. It would therefore in fact be much more, and very quickly, than 400 million euros. In any case, since the expert work requested for the report has already been done, I do not think it is necessary to do so again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u181	Mr Julien Dive, in support of Subamendment No 19, to Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u182	I would point out that it is not a question of charging an additional cost since the amendment requires a report, and I obviously agree with the comments made by Yannick Favennec Becot and Laure de La Raudière. It is indeed necessary to study this question because we all have people in our villages or in our cities who invest in everyday life, thus sometimes filling the surplus of free time due to a work accident. It is not to give money, to take a financial measure, to recognize the value of the commitment that is theirs by granting validated quarters for retirement. In the same spirit as Yannick Favennec Becot, I had tabled in the last legislature a bill that would allow for additional quarters from five years of associative responsibilities. I am consistent with myself in this fallback sub-amendment by asking for a report too, for the reasons just set out by my two colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u183	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u184	The committee did not consider this sub-amendment, but I could repeat the same arguments as before. As a matter of personal concern, the opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u186	For consistency and a fortiori, the same opinion of course as for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u187	I put to the vote Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u188	We have completed the discussion of the articles. On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u189	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Bertrand Sorre, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on many benches of the MODEM group]] I welcome the content of this morning's debates: it has shown the commitment of all groups to associative life and to the desire to secure associative engagement in the face of the difficulties encountered by some of the leaders who have taken care to invest in it. I also welcome the shared desire to raise awareness of associative investment from an early age, especially as we often have young people attending our debates in the fora, and this is a strong signal in this regard. This proposal for a law introduced by MODEM should be unanimous. We have before us good prospects of working together to promote and support associative life in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u191	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u192	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] The GDR Group will vote on this bill. [[Same movements]] As I explained, her two articles constitute an additional small stone, "a step forward", in the words of the rapporteur, for the associative world. But I really want to draw the Minister's attention and the national representative's attention to the fact that the voluntary world today, after the various blows it has taken over the last few years, needs a great law to address the various problems it faces. I would really like to come back to the question of sustainable subsidies. The call for projects procedure competes with large associations – for example in popular education – and diverts certain associations from their missions when, in order to try to receive grants, they adapt these missions to the content of the call for projects. The result is a perversion of the associative world. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us really commit ourselves today to working on a great framework law for associative life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u193	Mr Frédéric Reiss, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u194	In my turn, I would like to recall how much we, too, support associative life in our country and how important it is to us, knowing that it often allows citizens, whatever they may be, to express themselves through its prism, and above all to create, as many have emphasized, the social bond. I hope that the debate on the amendment tabled by our colleague, Rémi Delatte, will make it possible to reassure holiday and leisure organizers and families, and above all to ensure that these forms of collective reception of minors are maintained. It is true, Mr Minister, that the deadline of 1 July has caused a great deal of concern for the social and solidarity economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u195	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u196	[[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] However, the rejection of this amendment will not call into question our vote in favour of this bill, which remains a strong signal for associations even though it obviously calls for further provisions in the future to develop the association life that our country needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u198	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u199	I want to take this opportunity to welcome the work done by our colleagues in developing this bill because, even if it is only a short step forward, it will have allowed us all, on every bench, to highlight the points of improvement that are expected to promote associative life. It is clear that we cannot simply praise the commitment without creating the real conditions: we have in fact clearly identified the various points and themes on which work remains to be done. The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this bill and welcome the work done, even if the points raised should allow us to continue the process further. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As has been suggested in our discussions, why not take advantage of the work done to present a more comprehensive proposal that could take the form of a framework bill on the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u200	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u201	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to say a big thank you to all our colleagues for the quality of the work and the joint reflection on this topic: we are sending a beautiful message on the involvement of national representation alongside the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u202	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u203	On revenge!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u204	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u205	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u206	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Patrick Mignola and others to create a similar right for publishers of online news services (No. 849, 910).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u207	Mr Mignola, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u208	Madam President, Madam Minister of Culture, ladies and gentlemen, on September 2, 2006, François Bayrou carried out a founding act: in the face of Claire Chazal, on TF1, he asked the country about the threats posed by the powers of money to the media. This alert has since printed the consciences and crossed all currents of thought. That is why the Democratic Movement is carrying today, in this House, the bill that I have the honour to defend on its behalf. Because the press is again in danger: its economic balance is destabilized by the dissemination of its articles on platforms, search engines and on the channels of access providers. These, the "news media", the GAFAMs – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft – capture 90% of digital advertising investments. However, the press is unable to offset the drop in paper revenues with digital revenues. We are talking about 3.5 billion euros, of which only Google and Facebook recover 2.5 billion: the power of the container has erased the value of the content. Who would have thought that one day the pipeline would be more expensive than water, the pipeline than oil, and that the vehicle would be more important than the passengers it carries? How did this happen? Through the technological power of the GAFAM, all products, services and information are made available to the public in real time, to the point of severely depreciating the value of the distributed elements. For too long, this development did not appeal to the consumer or to the legislator, who were also sceptical. But we finally discover that to sell food, we need working farmers; that, in order to distribute manufactured goods, it is necessary for workers to rise up in the morning; and that the dissemination of information requires publishers, agencies and journalists. The opportunity to read the press free of charge from social networks does not mean that it has no value: quality information does not arise by spontaneous generation. We therefore propose that you create a new economic right, said neighbouring right, to allow publishers and agencies to dialogue and negotiate with the "infomediars" a fair remuneration for their investments. For, like Frankenstein, who shakes his barriers and overflows his creator, the GAFAMs have shaken the financial and democratic value chain: it is therefore for the legislator to react. And fast. I know you can all do yours, on all benches, this responsibility and this urgency. Some critics will tell us that we must let it happen, that the Internet is the very space of freedom and that nothing must be done that restricts it. Let us tell them that it is only the freedom of some to increase wealth. These justify their model by absconic concepts on the new frontiers between the private and public spheres, or by the ambition to become the world's largest media, but never to pay journalists. Others, first of all the GAFAMs themselves, say: "Gos for regulation", but as late as possible, after a long national, European and, why not, global negotiation. Five more minutes, five more days, what do I say, five more years of sales permanently lost for the press and the media! One attitude is to bow down to the expected benefits of the digital transition and to postpone any regulation – in front of efficiency and positive anticipations, docility through self-censorship. Of course, Google and Facebook have become indispensable to our lives: from teenagers to seniors, no one can imagine a day without a connection. In rural areas, 4G must be brought. For children, the Internet ban is more threatening than Father Fouettard. Wi-Fi, on the other hand, has become an essential product. It is true that the digital revolution opens up a world of progress: access to information, education, increased intelligence, unknown worlds. The journey around my Xavier de Maistre room is no longer only interior. This world can accompany a democratic revitalization that benefits better trained and better informed citizens, since the online publishing of the press has made it possible to double the readership: the Web is Gutenberg and Jules Ferry combined. It can also be synonymous with economic renewal: digital revolutionizes trades, reduces penitabilities, allows telework, invents social and physical mobility. He reconciled Fordism as Keynesianism with Nicolas Hulot. But, ladies and gentlemen, we know that every power carries within it the seeds of its omnipotence. We must therefore stand firm on the principles: in democracy, all power must be balanced by counter-powers. I therefore appeal to our individual and collective responsibility not to see that the benefits nor to look away from the drifts. We must hurry: we can sin by action, by omission, but also by procrastination. But no one knows that the wealth of the GAFAM thrives on irresponsibility to which a legal and democratic framework must be opposed. They not only sell products or services: they also sell our profiles, an activity whose aim is to optimize advertising targeting, but which sometimes drifts to the electoral manipulations of Cambridge Analytica. Thanks to a game of cups between national taxes, they escape tax, and we work to subject them to it, since we go so far as to consider negotiating with them the amount of their tax! They ignore their criminal responsibility for the dissemination of false information: robots censor the great works of humanity but tolerate its low maneuvers. They destabilize the press, in a form of exploitation of the man who writes by the man who turns the algorithms. But who can afford not to consent to tax, to despise the rule of law, to mock the economic balance of the press and therefore freedom of expression? Who can afford to wait for the very foundations of a democratic society? The Government, the Minister, has taken stock of these issues. It acts at European level, as at national level, to force the GAFAMs to pay their taxes in the countries where they make their profits. He is also proposing a bill to combat false information – fake news – which we will have to debate in a few days, without waiting for European legislation. In Parliament, we could act today in favour of the democratic pillar of the press. We could vote for a French faith that fully supports the draft European directive presented by the Commission and MEP Axel Voss. Everyone knows that since September 2016 it has struggled to succeed and that it is in danger: in the course of contradictory and slow discussions, the duration of neighbouring rights should be reduced from twenty years to one year. Discussions are bogged down on the technical definition of content, while confusion is maintained between hypertext links and excerpts. I would like to draw everyone's attention to these points: if the neighbouring right is reduced to one year, a negotiation will still be in progress when the next one begins. And if it does not apply to excerpts, we will have retained the principle, but not the content. Europe therefore needs our support: that is why this proposal for a law takes the terms of the directive back into their original integrity. If it were still too late to be adopted, or if it was devoid of its meaning, we could thus provide the French press with new means of protection. National legislation would not be incongruous. I say this for those who have the reflex – understandable – to do nothing that weakens Europe when it takes care of something. But whatever fate you reserve for this bill, our collective word can only help the Union succeed. Nor would national legislation be ineffective. In Germany or Spain, national laws were circumvented by Google, as they granted neighbouring rights without providing for their application, notably through collective management. A press title, however powerful it may be, cannot stand alone in the face of a Google that has the weapon of mass destruction that is de-referenced. Our bill has learned from this: it provides for collective management. For the first time, the vast majority of publishers and agencies are ready to participate. [[Laurent Garcia and Constance Le Grip applaud]] If, by chance, and thanks to the work of the French representative, the European directive could be adopted before the end of the year, let us accept it inugurate! By voting today on this bill at first reading, we could come back in November at second reading to translate it into national law. If it is true that there is an urgent need and if Europe is doing it quickly and well, we would have taken a step forward. We would now tell the GAFAM that democracy is not an option under general terms and conditions of sale. We would tell journalists that we know they are indispensable for democracy. To all of us we could say that in Parliament we are beating consciences, that the legislative power is the power to make laws and that we can be loyal and admired of the power of the GAFAM without being docile – for if any power corrupts, absolute power absolutely corrupts. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, a referral to committee has been announced. Without vaticining, we assume him some chance of success. Indeed, if we join on the goals, we sometimes differ on how to achieve them. Be assured that the Democrats, here and now, tomorrow and in committee, always and for the country, will persevere in their commitment to freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u209	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u210	Madam President, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, France is the country of copyright. It is here that this right was born, here it has been enriched, for more than two hundred years, with the greatest fervour, the greatest inventiveness. It is the foundation of our cultural model, its richness and its diversity. We are the custodians. We are responsible for the future we give him. However, this future is written in a world fundamentally different from the one in which copyright was created. As you pointed out, rapporteur: digital transformation poses new challenges. It upset the press sector, which had to make its revolution. A number of actors did not survive. However, many have shown remarkable adaptability, investing, developing new media, building innovative business models: advertising, subscriptions, etc. What we are seeing today is that despite all these efforts, the sector continues to face difficulties. The growth of digital revenues did not compensate for the collapse of paper publishing. The main reason for this is that the value created by press publishers is massively diverted and destroyed by other actors. This is the subject of the text that brings us together today. Press publishers are victims of unfair practices by platforms, search engines and content aggregators, who reuse their content without paying for it. According to a study by Kurt Salmon, publishers capture only 13% of the total value created by the previous day's French market and content aggregators on the Internet. For their part, the new actors benefit from advertising revenues and they siphon some of the readers of the traditional press, offering free content that is usually paid for on the original sites. This situation is indisputable from a competitive point of view. It is also inadmissible on a philosophical level; in France, we defend the right holders, the creators of content. It is unacceptable that actors who merely convey the content are massively better paid than those who manufacture it. On the other hand, this situation is not viable. By eating wool on the backs of press publishers, it is the rest of the ecosystem that platforms weaken; It is also journalists and kiosquiers who are put at risk and, ultimately, the conditions of pluralism, the conditions of our democracy. It is imperative that we create a mechanism that ensures a better sharing of value for the benefit of press publishers. This mechanism is the neighboring right. You have explained this perfectly, Mr rapporteur: it will allow publishers to receive remuneration for each re-use of their content. I defend this principle with as much conviction and determination as you do. Its creation is a necessity. However, I believe that we must wait before adopting a text in France. I'll tell you why. The neighbouring right must first be built at European level. France cannot impose rules alone on global digital giants. Isolated initiatives are not effective: we have had proof of this in our neighbours. I am thinking of Spain, where a neighbouring right was introduced for the benefit of press publishers three years ago now; However, no remuneration has been paid to date. Some content aggregators, including Google News, have simply closed their service in Spain. I would also like to cite the example of Germany, where a neighbouring right was created in 2013; Google refused to negotiate the return of a percentage of its turnover. Publishers have filed complaints of abuse of dominant position. The German competition authority has decided not to initiate proceedings for lack of "sufficient suspicion". Many German publishers have eventually granted Google a free license. This shows that the only effective level of protection in the face of transnational giants is Europe. Platforms may be able to bypass a national market of a few tens of millions of users, but they will not be able to afford to bypass the entire European market, with its 700 million potential users. Platforms will comply with European rules if we are able to achieve a united front. This is what is happening today: the principle of the recognition of neighbouring rights has been established in the context of the revision of the Copyright Directive. This consecration will change the rules of value sharing. Important debates have taken place in European bodies for several months. I fought. France has done a decisive work of conviction, which has paid off: the principle is now acquired. The timetable is accelerating, as the Directive is an essential element of the Commission's proposed Digital Single Market. The Council of the European Union and the European Parliament will adopt a position in the coming weeks, and discussions are intense. At present, negotiations are still focused on sensitive issues concerning the scope of the neighbouring law. One of them, which is important, concerns the short extracts: France defends the widest possible scope, hence the inclusion of short extracts. In the coming weeks, the priority will be to maintain intense diplomatic activity in Brussels and Strasbourg, so that the final version of the text is most favourable to France's interests. You can count on my unwavering mobilization. I met again this month with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Andrus Ansip, as well as with the Commissioner for Digital Economy and Society, Mariya Gabriel. France forms a clear line with the European Commission, which, since the beginning of the discussions, supports the establishment of a neighbouring right. France also forms an axis with many Member States, including Germany; This axis is a powerful bargaining lever. I am also working with the French MEPs, as well as the rapporteur for the text, Axel Voss, to mobilise Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our parliamentary allies for their unwavering commitment to creating a neighbouring right for press publishers. In addition, I exchange very regularly with my counterparts on this issue; I will see them next Wednesday, 23 May, in Brussels, on the sidelines of a Council of European Ministers of Culture. The calendar is very tight. A Committee of Permanent Representatives – COREPER – will be held two days later, on 25 May. On 20 and 21 June, the European Parliament will vote on the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will make it possible to engage the trialogues. I said: you can count on my total mobilization for this last straight line. However, we need all the forces of conviction. I have appealed to French press publishers to mobilize with their European interlocutors. I appeal to you, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today: I invite you to join my efforts to convince all those who still need to do so, particularly in the European Parliament. We share the same objectives, Mr rapporteur. You have been demonstrating a decisive commitment to this issue since the beginning. Today, European discussions are well advanced, but our fight still requires a major lobbying effort with the Member States, because the lobby of opponents of neighbouring law is very powerful. Let's face it together! Each of you can play a valuable role in removing the last doubts of our partners. We can work on coordinated initiatives. In particular, I would like to say that my ministry will be fully prepared to accompany a delegation of Members in the coming weeks to defend French positions in European bodies, in particular in Parliament. We can also count on the mobilization of press publishers, which I salute. You can count on our full support if such an initiative emerges. I repeat: we are in the last straight line. The discussions that have been under way for almost two years on this text will be concluded by the end of the year. It is in this particular context that the Government does not support the adoption of legislation at the national level in the meantime. Such an initiative would pose a serious risk to the good progress of the discussions at this stage of the negotiation, by bringing water to the mill of Member States which do not want the issue of neighbouring law to be dealt with at European level. We cannot afford to take such a risk, given the stakes for the press. I would also like to counter the idea that the adoption of a national text today would save time compared to the European solution. Indeed, such a text would not enter into force for several months, since the procedures require that a national text be notified to the European Commission, once it has been adopted, and then to wait a period of three months. The drafting of this bill also presents a number of legal difficulties and imprecisions which have not yet been resolved and which would pose problems for its implementation. My services are at your disposal to work there as quickly as possible, in connection with the press sector. Finally, if a text were adopted today at the level of France, it would in any case be rewritten at the time of transposition of the European Directive, in order to take account of the final provisions. All in all, you will have understood, Mr. Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Government unequivocally supports the bill on the substance: we are fighting for the creation of a neighbouring right for press publishers. On the other hand, we are against the adoption of a text at national level in the current tempo, given that European discussions are about to be concluded and that the most effective stage for the construction of such a right is the European level. On the other hand, with regard to neighbouring law, a proposal for a law could be the right vehicle for a very rapid transposition of the directive in France. We have an obligation to produce results on this issue, and this is being done first in Brussels. The creation of neighbouring law is part of a global movement to empower digital platforms that we lead on all fronts: I am thinking of false news, or the financing of creation, through the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. I therefore appeal once again for your support for the European discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u211	You got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are taking a decisive step for the press sector and for the sustainability of the French cultural model.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u213	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1215.u214	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of Mr. Patrick Mignola's proposal for a law and several of his colleagues to create a neighbouring right for publishers of online news services; Discussion of Mr Philippe Berta's proposal for a law on improving disability compensation; Discussion of the bill of Messrs. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, Philippe Berta and several of their colleagues regarding the random designation of personal protection committees. The meeting is adjourned.
