ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law and the proposal for an organic law by Mr Richard Ferrand and others on the fight against the manipulation of information (No. 1219 corrected, 1269, 1289; No. 1218, 1268).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the joint general discussion. Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u3	Madam President, the Minister for Culture, the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we finally have the happiness of building ourselves. Thus, the two bills that are re-tabled before this House are the result of a fact that we are many to share on these benches: we are faced, to a much greater extent than before, with the circulation of what is commonly accepted to be called "false information", alias "infox". This false information, by its number and importance, undermines the serenity of the democratic debate that must normally take place in our regimes. Discussion and controversy are the driving forces of our democracies, but for this reason must be based on a framework and on issues that cannot be called into question: verified information, the truth of the facts and the identification of the object. Apart from these conditions of exercise, it is vain to hope that reason prevails; Unfortunately, we have examples of this every day. The La République en Marche group, by placing these two bills on the agenda, wanted to seize this difficult modern subject and try to find a legal repressive framework. Our debates were lively and sometimes heated, as we understood that the line was difficult to find in order not to violate the freedoms that are the mark of our republic. I believe, however, that the text from the first reading was successful – certainly imperfectly, but it did not have the ambition to settle everything! It posed clear barriers to the dissemination of this false information and intended to develop critical thinking in the younger generation, in my view the most convincing response in the long term. Each of the proposed provisions responds to specific needs. Thus, the refusal by the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel to negotiate will enable us to respond to the serious risks of breaching our fundamental principles. Similarly, we will have better control over requests for agreements, and the APF may refuse to sign an agreement if the applicant is under the influence of a foreign state whose clear will would be to influence the proper conduct of an election. Sanctions could even go as far as the temporary suspension of a contracted service during the election period, in accordance with the procedures laid down in our law, and this suspension could be decided unilaterally by the CSA if the dissemination and influence of the service affected the fundamental interests of the nation. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement also welcomes the measures introducing a duty of cooperation for online platform operators. This is an essential element of this bill, which will result in rapid results. Indeed, their obligation to include a device enabling their users to report content that may be false information, disturb public order or alter the sincerity of a vote will be an important step in this cooperation. It should be remembered that these same operators will also have to act on the transparency of algorithms, on the promotion of content considered reliable, on the fight against false accounts, and on media and information education. If we add the obligation for them to appoint a legal representative in France, we see that the mechanisms introduced by these bills are likely to regulate a system in the same way as we act on our internal audiovisual. Finally, we welcome the contributions introduced at first reading concerning the strengthening of media and information education in the context of moral and civic education. Our group believes that it is on this ground that long-term work must be undertaken to sharpen the critical mindset of young people, often the ones most directly affected by the false information that circulates, for a very large part, on social networks. It is indeed at school that many can be made, as well as by an investment by everyone on the subject. That is why our teachers must also be trained in techniques for detecting false information and be prepared to pass on to their students the means to identify what is good information or bad information. All these measures will be supported by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. We regret that the Senate did not consider it appropriate to study this text that responds to a real subject of today. It is essential that we can move forward and find ways to be more active than we were in the past. We understand the reservations that these texts may give rise to, but we believe that modus vivendi will allow us to take a first step which, if necessary, will have to be assessed and adjusted in the future. In any event, the status quo was not satisfactory. I believe that this attitude is widely shared among the majority. Nor should we neglect the fact that this problem arises in other European states, which also question the best answers to be given. We will, of course, be vigilant in monitoring the provisions, and we will be able to make the most of the various experiences that have been carried out by our neighbours in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the text we have reached is a step, but it seems to us at this stage to be balanced between control and enforcement measures on the one hand and educational measures on the other. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u4	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u5	The two bills before us today have a laudable ambition: to combat the manipulation of information. They intend to respond to an imperative: to protect our democratic societies from the attempts to destabilize them. The events in the United States, Great Britain, or France during the last election campaign have demonstrated the need for rapid action in order to guard against attempts by foreign entities to influence them, whose sole aim is to undermine the foundations of our open societies. We strongly stressed this during the discussions at first reading: the IDU, Action and Independent Group shares the concerns of the Republic on the March and the Government in the face of the danger posed by the proliferation of false information. If the great law of 1881 on freedom of the press already referred to false news, our predecessors, in parliamentary debates, had rightly made very little mention of the articles punishing this crime, at most they had pointed out that in the event of publication at the beginning of the day of clearly false information, an evening newspaper would be in charge of publishing a denial; Since the speed of the flow of information was then limited by the means of communication of the time, the resulting damage was relatively small and, in any event, it was possible to circumscribe it and to take all the measures necessary. What is being debated today is no longer really the false nature of information, but its speed of circulation and the impossibility of having any influence on its dissemination, because of the multiplication of media and relays in its transmission, as well as the concerted and calibrated nature of such manipulation campaigns, which openly target our democratic elections and spread false rumours with a view to influencing the result: by instilling the subtle poison of doubt and distrust, they not only undermine our democratic institutions but also attempt to discredit journalistic work. The diagnosis behind these bills is therefore the right one and you are right to underline the unprecedented nature of this threat. If we share your analysis, however, we have reservations about the device you are proposing. First, we have some formal objections. We certainly understand the will to rely on national representation, the direct embodiment of the will of the people and the most legitimate body to legislate on a subject of such gravity. The choice to go through two bills, one organic and the other ordinary, therefore made a logic that we share. However, it has had the effect of depriving national representation of an impact assessment in due form, and we regret it. The quality of our debates at first reading would have been only better, and we might have avoided controversies that would have become useless. The opinion of the Council of State, rightly requested by the President of the National Assembly – and we thank him for that – certainly made it possible to clarify things. We are also shared on the device you are proposing. We welcome the measures provided for in Title II, which are aimed at further arming the Higher Audiovisual Council. In a world where information is an economic but also geopolitical and cultural issue, it is essential to be able to counter threats and attempts to destabilize media under foreign influence. We are also in favour of the rapporteur's addition of measures to improve media education, since we are convinced that media and information education on this subject, more than any other, is fundamental – which you have often mentioned, Madam Minister. The fight against fake news and conspiracy theories requires pedagogy. It is essential to raise awareness and educate, especially young people, about the detection of false information. In fact, new generations, born in a world that is essentially digitalized and bent by this digital environment, often see new technologies only as advantages, and are also the most assiduous on social networks, which are often their sole source of information. This is why digital education in schools is absolutely essential. I also have no doubt that the presentation of your report on this subject tomorrow in the Committee on Cultural Affairs will, Mr rapporteur, dear chairman of the committee, be an opportunity for a fruitful debate. On the other hand, the provisions of Title I, particularly the new reference which the text seeks to introduce, carry questions which are not removed. Without entering into a debate on the notion of false information, we are alerting to the risk of censorship: whereas the judge for interim measures is by definition the judge of evidence, it will be very difficult for him to rule on the manifestly false nature of an information within the very short time limit of the forty-eight hours allotted. And how can we ensure the effectiveness of this procedure when we know that content will, with a simple click, be shared millions of times in a few hours? It will therefore have an impact long before the judge is referred, which in no way will be able to erase its effects. In this respect, concerted action at European level had our preference. We also welcome the signing on 26 September, at the initiative of the European Commission, of a code of good practice against online misinformation with major players in the digital and advertising sector. The definition of false information adopted in this code, i.e. any information which can be verified to be false and intended to be misleading, seems to us to be more operational. It has the merit of clarity and pragmatism, offering a sharp contrast to the imprecision of the definition contained in Article 1, which does not include the concept of intentionality, which is fundamental. Moreover, the European approach is more based on a logic of platform accountability. This is a subject on which we must move, as they are not just hosting companies, their role being more and more similar to that of a publisher. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Our group, while acknowledging the interest and relevance of many of the provisions contained in these bills, is, however, addressing their consideration with reservations because of the unwarranted nature of the interim procedure that you intend to apply. But I have no doubt that you will provide some clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u6	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u7	The false information, once disseminated under the cloak, is now circulating freely. They are on social networks, but they are also found in the columns of some online titles that share the virtues of the press. The latest campaign for the 2017 presidential election did not lack false information. If the candidate Emmanuel Macron has been attacked on several occasions, all the candidates have been attacked, so much so that one is entitled to question the effects of these attacks. Who can attest that they have distorted its result? Which candidate can say that he was more penalized than another by false information? That's where our thinking should have started. Can we just say that fake news distorts the democratic game on the sole ground that it is viral and massive? Thus, you invite us to legislate on a subject to which you are giving effect. As our colleague Constance Le Grip mentioned, three CNRS researchers – the National Centre for Scientific Research – published a study last month that should inform us. They analysed 60 million messages published in the nine months leading up to the presidential election. These researchers consider that the number of fake news among the latter does not constitute a tsunami and significantly relativize its scope. Why? Because they recorded 179 fake news during the presidential campaign, which were only shared 4900 times. In other words, out of the 60 million messages published, the proportion of tweets with a false link was only 0.0081 per cent. A drop of water! For information, the Décodex, set up by the daily Le Monde, has refuted each of these 179 fake news. However, it has only been shared 1275 times: this is a topic that should challenge us, because if blocking the broadcast of a fake news is one thing, almost illusory in any case, responding to it more easily in order to enlighten our fellow citizens is another, certainly more effective. It is therefore a pity that your text is not more interested in it and is content with insufficient means. But this is not the only notable fact of this study. In reality, this false information remains essentially shared by activists, i.e. by persons affiliated with a candidate. Users who are not clearly in a political camp account for only 18% of the 4900 shares. In other words, Fake news navigates between initiates, the vast majority of whom are aware to circulate false information: this should lead us to relativize a phenomenon, to which some want to give, to justify this text, a phenomenal magnitude. You submit to us a very defensive text, while the opportunity was given to you to be effectively offensive by fighting false information at the root, that is, by favouring education, the qualification of information and the strengthening of the press at the expense of those who dishonor it by their practices. It appears that this bill is first and foremost the result of a reaction, that of the candidate who became president. Now, in law, acting is one thing, and reacting is another. In the present case, the President therefore responded by ordering the legislator. In doing so, he chose, through the proposed legislation, a process of elaboration that saves an impact assessment, while it seemed to be necessary, on a subject of this nature, the work of CNRS researchers is the best proof of this. Above all, most of the provisions of this bill will clearly prove unnecessary. Indeed, in its opinion, the Conseil d'État recalls that "French law already contains several provisions aimed, in substance, at combating the dissemination of false information". Thus, the Freedom of the Press Act of 29 July 1881 contains very clear provisions which have also been made applicable to online communication services. Article 27 of the same law thus punishes the spread of false news. The electoral code, for its part, punishes the dissemination of false news. It is for these reasons that many journalists, lawyers, professors and other referents – whom you have even sometimes, Mr. Rapporteur, interviewed – contest the need to legislate, in particular to create a new procedure for referenda for election periods. In this respect, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to dwell on what gives this text a dangerous character. First of all, it is up to the person who invokes the existence of false information to prove it: but, in many cases, this demonstration is very difficult to make, if not impossible, when it comes to establishing negative facts. At a time when almost all our fellow citizens are convinced that national politicians hold offshore bank accounts, one may wonder what the reaction of the public will be to a rejected summons. This is also what the founder of the Highlighters, Vincent Crown, denounces: for him, there is even a risk of instrumentalizing the judge's orders. Indeed, if the judge for interim measures announces that he cannot clearly state that an information is false, this does not mean that it is true, but his broadcasters could then boast of a renunciation of the decision to reinforce their false information. In other words, in some circumstances, doubt may be less pernicious than a court that is unable to pronounce itself. On the other hand, how can we prevent a candidate from attacking information on the grounds that it is false and thus putting pressure on its authors – even when it comes to journalists – yet in good faith, a threat or pressure? Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the press needs to be strengthened and protected. At a time when it is being bullied in some countries and stigmatized in others, including by leaders of great nations, let us avoid, when it comes to freedom of expression, looking at political decision with distrust. Unfortunately, that is how this text is perceived. Finally, what is quite new is to require a judge to assess a priori an electoral impact. If distinguishing the true from the false is already not easy, appreciating a rate of credulity is, apart from a few obvious cases, a challenge. Finally, what about Article 5, which confers new powers on the CSA vis-à-vis foreign media, on certain exorbitant sides? This will allow the latter to suspend, until the end of voting, broadcasts whose impact it will also have to assess on a poll that has not yet taken place. But, as Alexandre Pouchard, deputy head of the Décoders at the newspaper Le Monde pointed out: "Forbidden certain channels a priori because they could participate in a company of destabilization of the institutions, they are very vague and dangerous formulations. Some media, including Le Monde, are banned in China on this kind of argument." In this way, what may appear today as a harmless text can prove to be a formidable weapon for those who would make ill-intentioned use of it tomorrow. Finally, what about the initiators of this false information? Have we ever seen politicians, in or outside the election period, knowingly deceive our fellow citizens by relaying information that they knew was false or exaggerated? Should I remind you of the recent example of the Fakenews about Jean-Michel Blanquer, accused, as Najat Vallaud-Belkacem had been before him, of wanting to make Arabic teaching compulsory at school? Do I have to remind you that this fakenews was relayed here on a topical issue and that the one who is today Minister of Economy and Finance had used it when he was a candidate for the Republican primary, affirming that it would lead to communalism? Therefore, a fake news can only be sanctioned when it is supposed to distort an election. Outside of the election period, it would be quite secondary. But how can we not imagine that the fake news I just mentioned seriously harmed the parliamentary candidate Najat Vallaud-Belkacem? Thus, it is clear that your bill navigates between hesitation and willingness to act. It revolves around the subject, sometimes clumsily grasps it and presents, even after the initial version has been largely repeated, many inconsistencies. Therefore, we reaffirm that it is unnecessary or even dangerous. It ignores the objectives it has tried to set itself, ignores the reality of the phenomenon, poses risks to our fundamental freedoms, creates litigation and would have deserved another method to govern its elaboration. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and related group will not be able to approve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u8	All right! And happy birthday!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u9	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u10	I heard Mrs Nyssen announce the creation of a ministerial mission for the establishment of an ethics council. I welcome this, but it is a ministerial mission. In a study published by Reuters, Nic Newman and Richard Fletcher show that two out of three French and French people do not have confidence in the news media. Robert Arthur Pinker, a retired British sociologist and press regulator, said: "Press councils are used to protect press freedom and to protect the public from the excesses of this freedom." The report entitled "Self-regulation of information: how to embody ethics? The former Minister Aurélie Filippetti, who was handed over by magistrate Marie Sirinelli, noted that the majority of the actors concerned seem to be in favour – or at least are not opposed – of the creation of such a body. Finally, even UNESCO – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – and the Council of Europe are pushing for the creation of a council. France calls for a media ethics council. We hope that the Government will take strong steps to establish an operational body. Access to sincere, independent and honest information is indeed a sine qua non for the exercise of popular sovereignty. This ministerial mission must aim to regulate our media system democratically and effectively. Injunctions, then, if necessary, sanctions, must have a deterrent effect, thus interrupting any drift and guaranteeing the good information of the public. France has already tried to regulate the media. The Bloche Act of 14 November 2016 aimed at strengthening the freedom, independence and pluralism of the media provided for radio and television to set up ethics committees. The latter were thus created within it by each media, and are therefore controlled by the media itself. It has been found that this operation is absolutely inoperative in practice. We found this at France Télévisions, where an ethics committee on the honesty, independence and pluralism of information and programmes was founded as a result of this law. However, some broadcasts, such as L'Emission politique du 30 novembre, strongly contradicted the ethical, honest and independent demands of this regulatory body. In this case, the five members of this committee, Francis Balle, Christine Chanet, Michèle Cotta, Sophie Jehel and Denis Rapone, did not live up to the mission entrusted to them. The question of the true independence of this body can therefore be raised. We therefore expect the Government to take steps to create a democratic and functional tool to guarantee the independence, sincerity and honesty of the information that the French and French receive. This tool is the media ethics board, which will have to be composed of representatives of journalists, including freelancers and precarious people, as well as representatives of media users. It will have to ensure its representativeness – to prevent the 90% of the media that are held by nine billionaires from being overrepresented – and to guarantee its political and financial independence. Its decisions, which are intended to be effective and objective, will therefore not be those of major groups or political activists. This council must demand that Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights be respected: "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom to receive or impart information or ideas without interference by public authorities and regardless of frontiers. [...]" Finally, it will have to draw on the experiences of other countries that have created comparable forums. Take the example of the Quebec press council. The context for the creation of the Council in 1973 echoes the situation we are experiencing today: a high concentration of the media, a lack of confidence in the media, and the Government's willingness to regulate the sector. I met with the Chairman of the board of journalistic ethics of Belgium, Jean-Jacques Jespers, during the summer AMFiS of France unsuspected: he demonstrated to us the virtues of this democratic tool in which the state does not interfere, contrary to what the proposal that is before us provides. I would point out that Belgium is ranked by Reporters Without Borders in ninth place for press freedom, while France is only ranked thirty-ninth. Jean Jaurès advocated extensive and accurate information, with the aim of giving all and all, as well as all free intelligences, the means to understand and judge the events of the world themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u11	Beyond an education in discernment, we believe that a media ethics board would be more responsive to these requirements, rather, Mr. Rapporteur, than your bill that unnecessarily censors. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So, in the light of what I have just developed, and following the announcement by the Minister of the creation of such a commission, in which we would like to participate, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote against this bill and establish, rather, an effective media ethics board. The Group of the European People's Party will table a proposal for a law to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u12	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u13	Let me begin by expressing the most sincere regret of the Republic in the face of the attitude of our fellow senators, whose members were unable to examine the texts in substance as a result of the adoption of two preliminary questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u14	That's their right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u15	At a time when our fellow citizens expect a collective surge from their representatives in order to carry out the transformations that our country needs more than ever, this opposition a priori seems particularly damaging to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u16	They're not vital texts either!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u17	The fight against false information, against the manipulation of information, has become necessary in view of the many abuses that have occurred during recent electoral campaigns, especially in our country. Technologies have evolved; It is therefore up to the national representative to act. Many European countries have already done so: for example in the United Kingdom, where Parliament has set up a committee of inquiry, or in Germany, where Parliament has legislated, or in Italy, where the authorities have created a platform for reporting false news. The great law of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press, which already referred to false news, appears, at the time of digitalization and of the multiplicity of modes of dissemination of information, to be inadequate. What is different today is the danger associated with the virtuality of the Internet and social networks; It is the unprecedented changes in digital technologies, in particular the rise of digital platforms, that make information circulate at high speed V. In order to adapt our legislation to this context of permanent information, the two texts we are discussing today in new reading aim at several objectives. On the one hand, it is necessary to strengthen regulation, which is essential to ensure pluralism and honesty of information, particularly during the electoral period, and, on the other hand, to develop media education, through the formation of a critical mindset with regard to information disseminated on the Internet. First of all, I would like to reassure you on one point: far from being a censoring tool, the mechanism established by these bills tends to better protect fundamental freedoms, in the first ranks of which freedom of expression and the protection of journalists' sources. It is on the contrary by letting false news spread that we attack the profession. In addition, several speakers before me have indicated that safeguards have been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, these are effective texts that we are looking at tonight. They are effective, because they target, not the production of false information, which would be vain, but their spread, which is the nerve of war. They are effective, because they target not the authors of the content, who are very often anonymous, but those who broadcast them and who benefit from them, that is mainly digital platforms, which at the moment do not play fully the game of democracy. I would also like to welcome the addition by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, of which I am a member, of measures aimed at improving media education. I thank our rapporteur, Bruno Studer, for his work on the subject. We are convinced that media and information education is fundamental in this area more than anything else. The fight against false news requires pedagogy. It is essential to raise awareness and educate young people about the detection of false information. The younger generations are the most connected to social networks, the most active, but also the most sensitive. Several studies have shown this: 15-34 year olds who have received media and information literacy courses are more likely to check information. This is why the introduction of digital education in schools is essential. Developing the critical minds of young people is the only way to fight the spread of false news on a sustainable basis. Through this bill, information, image and media education will be strengthened in all school curricula. This will be accompanied by a doubling of the dedicated budget, as announced by the Minister of Culture. The public audiovisual industry also played the game, launching a platform for decrypting false information on Franceinfo's website on 6 June, which is a common platform for the public audiovisual service as a whole. The aim of this bill is to amplify this movement. In the first reading, the La République en marche group introduced new articles in the Education Code, thus complementing the objectives of the Ministry of Culture in this field, in liaison with the Ministry of National Education, in particular with the Centre for Media and Information Education of the Canopé network. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Colleagues, the formula "Adapting our country to the world of tomorrow" will never have had as much meaning as with these bills. Yes, false information is a threat to our democracies. The Republic on the move will therefore strongly support these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u18	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u19	The texts before us are symptomatic of the situation we are experiencing. These are the texts of a jupiterian power, of a living near-god who was, in the countryside, confronted with certain accusations, just or unjust, which he visibly did not bear and, in any case, he did not overcome. However, we do not legislate to settle accounts, to repair what narcissistic injury, to draw from his personal little case a theory on freedom of opinion for an entire country. Freedom of expression, which is clearly affected by the proposed mechanism, is so essential that it is worth the risk of abuse. We don't remove knives because some murderers use them! Freedom of expression is an achievement for our societies; It is even one of the values of our civilization. The fight for freedom of opinion and expression was long and difficult. It was necessary to make a long way before imposing, in pain, the principle, which it was then necessary to make live daily, always with difficulty. Today, everything seems to be a pretext for the exercise. This, you will tell me, is an inevitable temptation for the powers in place, especially in times of social networks that bypass information monopolies. The so-called "new world" looks terribly like the old one. Already, everyone sees it, our freedoms are receding. Politically correct acts as real intellectual terrorism. It strikes against certain words; He decrees heretics certain ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u20	[[Smile]] It's "I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u21	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Like a string of lead, has come to establish itself in our country, as in many Western countries, a thought police whose media are the red guards. This police is exercised not on the basis of arguments or reasoning, but through irrevocable, unsurpassable moral convictions, as if certain subjects were subject to theological truth. I add, to all censors who often usurp Voltaire's sponsorship, that freedom of expression is designed not to express official ideas – which, in any dictatorship, are allowed – but to express non-conforming ideas, ideas or information that can raise debate, ideas that can sometimes even shock. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM, SOC and GDR groups]] When Mr Macron says that French culture does not exist, I am shocked by that. Yet, it does not come to my mind to want to ban it. On the contrary, I like to contradict by argument this false statement objectively, politically inept and humanly insulting for the French. In the case of Eric Zemmour, what is shocking is less the words expressed, even if they were in a provocative way – they are a matter of controversy –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u22	No, they're a crime!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u23	...that the claim to forbid this essayist from speaking. Freedom is worth the risk of a shocking word, it is worth the risk of a debate, it is worth the risk of the confrontation of ideas. The promoters of this piece of legislation, which I continue to regard as deeply liberticide, answer us that it is a matter of sanctioning, not an idea, but a "false news". A "false information" is what, on the basis of the same fact, often falls within the scope of a diverging analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u24	No, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u25	Everyone knows that a "false news" is often wrong only in the eyes of those it bothers, in the eyes of the established interests it disturbs. You will object that, in the case of false evidence, you must be able to act very quickly during an election campaign. I hear that argument, as long as someone's honour is called into question. Why, in this case, do not ease and speed up the management of defamation proceedings rather than alter a judicial ban on so-called "false news" in a broad way? In fact, you rely on the deterrent effect of these texts and you introduce a ban by self-censorship. You rely on their repressive aspect, organizing the material ruin and damage to the reputation of those who risk the exercise of their freedom. Will you also ask the magistrates to determine the political truth? Again, you are committed to a dictatorship of judges, dangerous in the light of public freedoms. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] More broadly, these texts are in addition to the powerful liberticide temptations that seem to inhabit this power. The temptation to oppose any open debate an answer that would be moral – for example, if you defend the nation, we do not argue with you: you are a "lepers", a "offender", or even a "mad". The second temptation is totalitarian temptation, which manifests itself in an increasingly concentrated power, less and less shared, a power that wants to limit the opposition's right of amendment, a power that persecutes the main opposition movement by unjustly depriving it of its means of existence, including by unjustified blocking of its bank accounts, a power that believes it can solve the question of freedom through the dictatorship of one thought – its own.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u26	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u27	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u28	False news has always existed. The rumors, the noises that run, we all know them; None of this is new. However, they are now more than ever a threat to our democracies. The British referendum on Brexit, the Catalan referendum, the American presidential election are a non-exhaustive list of recent examples of disturbed campaigns and elections. The French legal framework for prosecuting and punishing the spread of false information has existed since the Freedom of the Press Act of 1881. However, ladies and gentlemen, which of us would dare say that it still protects the candidates and their supporters today? Did the presidential campaign go without confusion? Was it the same during your election campaigns? Definitely! – At least, that is the opinion of our honourable senators, who did not wish to enrich the texts and who, rather than debate, preferred to adopt motions to oppose the question in advance of the two bills. While these do not relate to the crime of false news, which is already criminally punished, nor to the concept and qualification of "false news", which has existed in French law since the Freedom of the Press Act of 1881, but are aimed only at modernizing the current legal framework in order to combat massive and deliberate campaigns for the dissemination and spread of false information that can alter the normal course of the electoral process, some prefer to put a handkerchief on this media and digital phenomenon. The two bills, however, aim to adapt our right to the new forms of communication, so to take into account the change in scale introduced by the new modes of dissemination. Although several provisions included in the Press Freedom Act of 1881, article 6 of the Act of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy and the Electoral Code are aimed at combating the dissemination of false information, the current legal framework is insufficient. If the provisions I have just mentioned show that the fight against false information is an old and recurring concern of the legislator, the answers that have been given remain scattered, none taking the measure of the new logics and vectors of dissemination. By focusing on new communication tools, such as social networks, and on new dissemination modalities, such as sponsored media, which, through deliberate strategies, sometimes developed abroad, seek to influence electoral elections, it is this new dimension that our two legislative proposals focus on. It is against the massive and extremely rapid dissemination of false information via digital tools that we must protect ourselves. Our discussions have made it possible to strike a balance through a mechanism that manages to reconcile the need to combat the mass and deliberate dissemination of false information with the preservation of the constitutional principles of freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The two texts, which are the result of a debate which has been widely tried in committee and in the Chamber, have now been concluded. First, they are based on the desire to provide a narrow definition of "false information". In this connection, I would like to commend the substantive work of our rapporteur, with which everyone has been involved. Today, "false information" is defined as "an inaccurate or misleading allegation or imputation of a fact." Such a definition responds to the recommendations of the Council of State, which warned us of the flexibility of interpretation that the original text would have allowed. The fight against false information shall be limited only to cases where it is established that the dissemination of such information is a matter of bad faith. These texts also have the will to put an end to any possible objective disturbance during the electoral period. This is, not just any disorder, but a disorder that aims to destabilize, to vitiate discernment, a disorder deliberately sought by the manipulation of false information, with the intention of altering the sincerity of the election. The two bills do not in any way call into question freedom of the press. They do not modify the 1881 Act and do not in any way affect freedom of expression or the protection of journalists' sources. Because they entrust the proceedings to the judge for interim measures, they also satisfy the urgent need to stop the disorder, hence the dissemination of false information. Because they reserve the treatment of disputes to the magistrates of the 17th Correctional Chamber of the Paris High Court, which specializes in press offences, they guarantee both exclusive competence and impartiality. Because, in order to obtain the cessation of the dissemination of false news, the news concerned will have to be, cumulatively, manifestly false, widely disseminated and artificially disseminated, these bills do not call into question constitutional freedoms or freedom of the press. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Indeed, if to stop the dissemination of information aimed at diverting opinion, victuring and altering discernment and to force dissemination platforms to be transparent is to gag, censor or control, then we make a mistake. For us, on the contrary, to put an end to the dissemination of information which is intended to disturb public order or to divert opinion, and to impose an obligation to communicate on the originators of the dissemination, this is to protect. And today, we want to protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u29	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u30	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to say to our unregistered colleague that I love the nation, and that I do not need to speak out to defend it. In the name of this, I will speak to you about two texts that I believe are useful to the interests of our country, to the interests of the nation. So here we are, in a new reading, looking at these two texts on fake news, which we had before us before the summer. They echo an increasing concern in our society, and they extend that expressed on 3 January 2018 by the President of the Republic on the occasion of his wishes to the press: to fight against mass disinformation campaigns aimed at disrupting the electoral process. They respond to a clear need for transparency, with citizens having to be informed about who is doing what and who is behind content, as the counterfeiting of information is a major threat to democracy. This applies to many other areas beyond electoral debates alone, but it is particularly acute when it comes to a specific deadline, which commits the destiny of a country for the years to come. No one can repeat the story, of course, but in this respect everyone will have in mind the year 2016. What we live in day-to-day is very colourful. In this regard, my analysis will be somewhat different from that of President Mélenchon with regard to the American electoral system. The willingness to manipulate information is not new. False information is not a plague of our times; But today, the actors, the gallery and the audience are no longer the same. The Internet and social networks have redistributed the maps. There are influence strategies that can go through Twitter: we tweet and retweet without identifying the source. The diffusion can be massive, instantaneous and artificially induced. Once initiated, the process no longer has an author, and this, among other things, differentiates it from the phenomena covered by the 1881 law. I am therefore convinced that misinformation is one of the main challenges of our time. That is why we wanted to legislate. Moreover, we are not alone, since intensive legislative work is under way at European level. The bill, which I believe is in the public interest, is first and foremost intended to protect the sacred time of voting in a democracy. But, thanks to the work of our Assembly, its scope has been extended to protect citizens and to give those who will become so the tools of informed use of the profusion of information that already constitute their environment. Since we are in a new reading, it is useful to look at our first debates and what followed them. Pretensively liberticide, the fruit of "a moment that George Orwell would have loved to prophesy," according to the title of a daily, it was, at the same time, considered ineffective and simply cosmetic, sometimes by those who denounced the danger. Since then, fake news continues to feed our news. At the very least, our debates will have served to ensure that particular attention is paid to these rumours and false truths of authority, generating anxiety, prejudice and resentment. I have no longer heard that these two texts are the Trojan horses of a dictatorship on the move, and I look forward to not hearing any more such comments tonight – at least for the moment. However, the debate on the defence of freedom of expression is still, in essence, legitimate. At this stage, the mechanism we are proposing consists of three blocks. The first concerns election periods, of which I have stressed the sensitivity. The intervention of the judge for interim measures, a judge of the obvious, is neither annoyed nor exaggerated. It is not annoyed, because this judge can stop the dissemination of manifestly false and unexceeded information, because his independence and his discernment make him, precisely, the judge of the evidence. On this point, we fed our reflection on our previous debates, and wanted to better frame the intervention of this magistrate by clarifying the definition of "false information". I think we will also have to look at the issue of appeal, which is also of great importance. Another element of this first block is to give the citizen crucial information, the information that lies behind advertisements that do not necessarily say their name. It is clear that the identification of the sender of a message makes it possible to assess its credibility. This transparency is essential for democratic exercise. In addition, we wanted to add an educational dimension to this bill. There is a need for education on the apprehension of the media and social networks in civic education that our children receive. This dimension is fundamental: democracy is the decision-making place of citizens enlightened by diverse and pluralistic information, which they will consider with discernment. In the face of the profusion of data which he himself can disseminate, the citizen is even more involved in the information which he receives and relays. Finally, we wanted to touch the heart of the system. What creates fake news is the very functioning of the platforms, which derives from their economic model. Digitalization allows a massive and almost instant dissemination of a message or data. It is this speed and volume that allow platforms to value the advertising screens that come to us when we surf the Internet. This model can be recognized, but platforms must face their obligations and responsibilities. This is also the whole purpose of Title IIa. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The bill has evolved dramatically in our debates, although it has been difficult. If we regret that the Senate did not want to bring its stone to it, it is useful and will allow us to move forward on the path I referred to.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u31	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u32	I thank all Members for their contributions: those of the majority who have given me their support, and those who have expressed their criticism or misunderstanding. I'll answer it synthetically. I'll start with a few words about the method. It cannot be argued that the text suffers from a lack of consultation between the professionals concerned, whether journalists, representatives of written or audiovisual media, digital platforms or experts from civil society: all have been heard in the context of the numerous consultations conducted by my services and myself, as well as the cycle of hearings conducted by the rapporteurs. Nor has this text been prepared in haste, and it has been the subject of extensive and extensive technical work. I would remind you that the Council of State, seized, has validated all its guidelines while proposing clarifications and technical clarifications, most of which have been taken up by the National Assembly. On the other hand, we cannot simply appeal, in a somewhat incantatory way, to a global European response. Of course, I share the objectives expressed in this area: as you know, I am the first to bring the major debates to the European Union; But when it procrastinates and makes the choice of purely voluntary self-regulation instead of legislative intervention, it is legitimate, given the urgency and seriousness of the issues, for national representation to address the issue. I'm coming to the bottom. The summons is a problem for some of you, who consider it unnecessary and dangerous. I reject these criticisms, which seem to me to be quite contradictory. The injunction is useful because our right today offers no protection other than a posteriori punishment of the authors. What we need in an election period is a quick response to stem the spread of clearly false information when it is part of a deliberate and orchestrated manipulation campaign. This injunction shall in no way affect freedom of expression or the right to information. Otherwise, the Conseil d'Etat would not have failed to answer for it. The criteria governing the intervention of the judge of interim measures are precise and demanding. I would point out that the reference, limited to election periods, will only concern information that is manifestly false, artificially and massively disseminated, and which is likely to deceive the electorate. And it will be up to the applicant to prove that these criteria are met. The work of the trial judge will therefore focus on the evidence of information that is manifestly false and disseminated via viral dissemination technologies. In conclusion, I would like to point out that some provisions aim to introduce more transparency and cooperation in the operation of digital platforms. These provisions, I believe, could bring us all together, at a time when there is a case for greater regulation of these platforms. The transparency of the content sponsored during the electoral period is based on a principle of common sense which, I repeat, could bring us together. The duty of cooperation of the platforms, on the other hand, is the only effective remedy, with two pitfalls that we all want to avoid. The first, which many have pointed out, would be the total passivity towards these platforms, which could hide behind their mere hosting status in order to avoid dealing with the flow of deliberately misleading information, from which they also derive, let us recall, a commercial profit. The second would be pure self-regulation, which has often been mentioned in relation to Europe: it would allow the same platforms to set themselves up as arbitrators of the true and the false. Thus, they would decide on their own, according to discretionary and opaque rules, how information should be filtered and prioritized. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If we add particular attention to media education, I am convinced of the need for these two texts for our democracy. They represent a considerable step forward in the face of the dangers posed today by the manipulation of information at the time of digitalisation and viral propagation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u33	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u34	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u35	The majority, it is true, is no longer at a paradox. But still! Ladies and gentlemen, you want to fight false information, and you want to create one with this text. You insist, despite the Senate's rejection, on creating an inefficient, inefficient and dangerous system. Inabouti, it is clearly so because no evaluation of the existing arrangements has been carried out. It is also ineffective in the absence of a unified European framework which alone will allow us to weigh against the giants of the net. Finally, it is dangerous because the proposed censorship – since it is one – is disproportionate in terms of the protections it intends to provide. In the absence of a sufficiently precise definition, it exposes, as regards its interpretation, to the risk of arbitrariness of the judge, thus to case law without clarity. This explains the talkative nature of the text: what irony for a text that wants to silence, and whose implementation will cause more problems than it will solve! Why, then, do you insist on continuing this communication exercise? If the aim sought – to prevent anything that could harm the sincerity of a vote – can be commendable, should we not, therefore, also legislate on false promises? The promises of a new world and an exemplary Republic announced in this case, in view of the repeated resignations and other Benalla cases, would deserve just as special treatment of our assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But was it, at the end of the day, a false news or a false new promise? I can't say. The new mechanism has no other purpose but to echo a presidential announcement that is being made very quickly, too quickly, and that is wasting us crazy time, which would nevertheless be very useful to other major issues for our country. The Republican Group will therefore vote against Article 1, and against the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u36	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u37	We share the diagnosis made by the President of the Republic in his wishes to the press and are all acutely aware of the danger posed to our old democracies by information manipulation campaigns in the digital age. But we are very reserved for the new interim procedure provided for in Article 1. That is why, when I was a Member of the LaREM Group, I abstained on this text, in my personal capacity, at first reading. The definition of false information, as we know, has not been achieved. We also know that the malicious nature of information cannot be established solely by the means of dissemination, whether artificial, automated or massive. What material capacity and legitimacy does the judge have to define, in a very short period of time, the inaccurate or misleading nature of information? You have all recalled, the judge of the interim order is the judge of the obvious, and that is the whole problem. To the extent that this judge will not have the means to decide on complex situations in such a short time, the mechanism could even prove counterproductive in that it can strengthen not only the publicity given to the "false information" which is to be obtained by de-referenced, but also the likelihood that it is to be given. In the context of an electoral campaign, the judge's decision not to pronounce himself may indeed be instrumentalised and, paradoxically, alter the sincerity of the election much more. The UDI, Agir and Independent Group wanted to defend an amendment to introduce a re-visit clause, but unfortunately it was not admissible. We would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, if you could nevertheless commit yourself to submitting to Parliament, at the end of the next European elections, an information report on the application of the interim procedure. This would make it possible to draw all lessons from the application of the new mechanism and to remove the doubts it raises, both as regards possible infringements of freedom of expression and as regards its possible inefficient or counterproductive nature. To opt for an experiment would, it seems to us, be in the interests of all. In our view, it is not too late to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u38	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u39	The emergence of social networks has disrupted access to information. A priori, however, this is a good thing which has an unfortunate corollary: we are witnessing the appearance of sometimes false, often uncontrolled, information whose sole aim is to blur the truth or, sometimes, to orient the vote of voters politically. In the same way, we are witnessing the induced emergence of a feeling of insecurity, anti-parliamentarianism or communalism. There are drifts, that's for sure. It is therefore important to ensure that the information is accurate. This is true of the sincerity and, at the limit, of the stability of democracy. Still, it would be appropriate to define precisely the scope of what defines false news. It's not easy. The border is narrow between the guilty dissemination of false information and freedom of expression, which is one of the foundations of democracy. This is the difficulty of these texts and this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u40	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u41	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for an opinion, our strongest disagreement concerns Article 1. To combat false information, you define it as "inaccurate or misleading allegations or imputations of a fact that alters the sincerity of the upcoming election..." But all this is extremely difficult to establish, many speakers said before me. Since the beginning of our exchanges you have put forward the argument of the last presidential election during which we would have seen the effects of the false news, but let us be concrete. On the occasion of this election, a candidate, one of my political opponents, I want to name him, François Fillon, was at the top of the polls. He underwent a press campaign claiming that he had hired his wife as a parliamentary assistant and that this was a fictional job. Eighteen months after this election campaign, justice has still not ruled on this issue. I say that many voters have changed their vote, influenced by this repeated statement by many media.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u42	What a lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u43	Eighteen months later, nothing is established, so how can one imagine that a judge can make a decision in forty-eight hours? Of course, I have heard Mrs Naïma Moutchou explain to us that it will be possible to appeal, but such a short period of time will in no way determine whether this is a manipulation of information that would have the result of questioning the sincerity of the vote. Rightfully, candidate Fillon could consider it wrong that the person he hired, who happens to be his wife, had a fictitious job, and had done real work, and felt that he was facing an absolutely detestable press campaign. So what you're proposing doesn't work out. In the case I have just mentioned – I will stop appointing the candidate in question – this opens up the possibility of removing from the press the right to write that there was room for questioning the reality of the work of a parliamentary assistant. We would either ban everyone from asserting this, or... You can see that the definition you are giving is so vague that you are planning a legislative apparatus that, at choice, will be totally powerless – it will not solve the problem of false news – or will give the legislator tomorrow the opportunity to silence the press and prevent it from carrying out its indispensable investigation and investigation work. That is why this Article 1 must be abandoned. The definition you give is far too broad. What is a manipulation of information? Can we say in October 2018 that the candidate I mentioned, who was extremely well placed in the polls and seemed able to win the presidential election, was manipulated by the information? Was there any questioning of the sincerity of the vote? These are serious issues. It seems that you do not tackle the reality of what has had a profound impact on the presidential election. It was not a few confidential sites that had an influence on the vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u44	We've got to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u45	Let's be reasonable! Article 1 should be deleted. I will introduce an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u46	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 8 and 28, to delete it. I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u47	I just defended him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u48	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u49	I said it at first reading and last week in committee, my basic disagreement is based on the principle underlying the bill that you arrogate the right to decide what the truth is, and what the truth is not. The Senate in its almost unanimous rejection of your bill, the argument has been repeated, but have you wondered why there are so many French journalists who oppose this bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u50	Not when we explain it to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u51	The National Union of Journalists, the SNJ, expressed its opposition as soon as the project was published. In March, he said, "This text threatens freedom of expression and freedom to inform," adding, "it can also become a means of obstructing the work of professional journalists. That's all! Madam Minister, if I sum up, you told us in the introduction: prevention is better than cure. You talked about irreparable damage. Of course, all this is true, in many areas, but it is no longer true in terms of freedom of expression. How can I tell you my sideration? Jean Terlier cited several examples earlier, such as the Brexit or the independence of Catalonia, claiming that the results of these elections had been distorted or at least tainted by information that would alter their sincerity. Why? Simply because the result didn't suit you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u52	Two minutes, two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u53	You regularly exceed your speaking time. I'll finish it...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u54	Quickly, please, Congresswoman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u55	The claim that the earth is round has long been considered false information; It seems to me that this deserves reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u56	I call Mrs Naïma Moutchou, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u57	These amendments aimed at abolishing the intervention of the judge for interim measures were rejected last summer and then last week in committee. I propose, for consistency, to reject them today. Perhaps my answer will be a little long, and I apologize for that, because it concerns all the amendments relating to the abolition of the intervention of the judge for interim measures. I note with satisfaction that, since the first reading, criticism of the text has evolved: no one is now considering challenging the scale of the phenomenon of false information. Everyone agrees that this is a major concern, and that is so much better. Then I want to say why the legislator has to intervene. To influence or disrupt an election is not new, but what is new is the power of certain tools, especially since we know that the companies in the new technology sector have not taken full advantage of the problem. Today, destabilizing democracy is not very expensive. I take the figures quoted by my colleague Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade. It costs 2600 euros to buy 300,000 followers on Twitter, 5000 euros to buy the comments we want, 40,000 euros to launch a vast propaganda operation on all networks. We know that we are increasingly permeable to this kind of false information. We saw them at work in 2017, during the presidential election in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u58	Give us an example! Be precise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u59	We are at a point where public debate must be protected, especially during an electoral period. I'm not saying it's easy. On the contrary, I say that if it is necessary, it is not without risk, at the outset. Except that we have weighed what we have done: we have taken every precaution with regard to respect for public freedoms. For example, when I am asked how to distinguish between what is true and what is false, I reply that we have chosen the judge of interim relief, that of evidence, of what is manifestly false or not. It makes a difference! When asked how to distinguish between what is manipulated and what is authentic, I reply that the mechanical and massive nature of the diffusion will make it possible to make the distinction. When I am told that it is a question of censorship to the detriment of journalists, and that these are bills against the press, I obviously answer "no! " We have stated in the text that there is no false information that can be pursued if there is no deliberate intention to influence a vote, in other words, a desire to harm. It's a protection for the media. When I'm asked how the trial judge will rule in forty-eight hours...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u60	We must conclude, Madam rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u61	I am replying to all the amendments, Madam President. I'm not going to say anything next. It's the office of the judge for interim measures, it's his daily life. It even statues sometimes in just a few hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u62	You do not have two minutes per amendment, Madam rapporteur. We have to finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u63	When I am told that the law already contains all the necessary provisions, I answer that this is not true. You have cited a series of cases that are counter-examples. I am not saying that the trial judge will answer all the situations – Mr Corbière, you have cited a specific case – but there are situations in which he will be perfectly useful: he will play his full role. I take a somewhat caricatural example so that everyone feels concerned: let us imagine a false information broadcast during an election campaign consisting of explaining that a candidate wants to regularize 100,000 undocumented. That would not be false news, because it would be broadcast massively and we would not be able to detect the first broadcast. This is not defamatory because, objectively, the regularization of undocumented persons does not constitute an infringement of honour and consideration. On the other hand, this is a false information that could subjectively influence the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u64	Madam rapporteur, I ask you to really conclude! Without that, I'm going to have to turn off your microphone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u65	I conclude, Madam President. You see, all the guarantees have been taken with an independent judge, protecting public freedoms, and full freedom for journalists...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u66	You no longer have the floor, Madam draftsman. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u67	I will try to be quick with regard to two amendments which I am obviously totally unfavorable, which aim to remove two essential tools from the bill: the obligation of transparency of the sponsored content of the platforms, and the judicial summons. The obligation of transparency of sponsored content will allow the Internet user to better understand why, and at the initiative of whom, it is exposed to information content. This will enable the citizen to exercise his or her critical meaning. Far from restricting freedom of expression, this obligation does, on the contrary, offer a new guarantee that is part of the movement to strengthen readers' information. The summons will enable the judicial judge, the guardian of freedoms, to order the withdrawal of false information intended to alter the electoral process. The conditions for the judge's intervention are very precisely regulated: only information which is manifestly false and which is deliberately, artificially or automatedly and massively disseminated is concerned. It is therefore the orchestrated campaigns of misinformation that are targeted, and there is no infringement of freedom of expression, nor of freedom of opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u68	What about press freedom?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u69	More generally, I would point out that the text does not create any new prohibitions. The dissemination of false information is long prohibited and criminalized when it disturbs public peace or alters the sincerity of an election. That will remain the case. The aim of this text is only to improve compliance with existing rules by adapting them to the new realities characterized by the growing weight of social networks, the virality of information, and the development of sponsorship.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u70	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u71	Madam rapporteur, I come back to some of your arguments. You are telling us that these amendments must be rejected because similar amendments have already been rejected before, at the sitting, at the first reading, or in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u72	I only talked about consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u73	You say nothing has changed since then, but you haven't. The strong action of the Senate to shed light on the reality of this text, and you yourself have come back to the definition of false news. If it is not generally applicable, it is also so in the case of interim measures. Then you tell us that no one today challenges the existence of false news. But no one has ever contested their existence...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u74	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u75	... especially since this Government has been doing this a lot. Two examples: the purchasing power of the French has increased – well, it would be interesting to look at the issue! Secondly, remember the Prime Minister who, here before us, declared that the Minister of the Interior Gérard Collomb was fully in his task.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u76	The bill deals with election periods...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u77	We're laughing again! Last example, you yourself, the minister, when you said at the moment: "I conclude. It was also a beautiful fake new! The situation will become problematic when you increasingly engage in this kind of act and approach an election, as will soon be the case with the European elections. This will give rise to endless discussions. The Council of State has said: existing laws already punish false information, regardless of the medium of its dissemination. This text is therefore ineffective – the provisions already exist –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u78	I gave you an example.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u79	... and simply tends to asepticate the debates. In addition, it will have no effect on all broadcasts from abroad. Finally, it will lead to drifts when it will allow some well-thinking people to channel the debate in the direction of power they want to keep.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u80	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u81	I'll be brief. This article refers only to digital platforms, therefore, legal persons, to whom prison sentences cannot, of course, be applied. We also know that they often have significant financial resources. It would therefore seem quite conceivable for me to raise the amount of the fine to EUR 100 000 in order to compensate for the symbolic penalty of one year's imprisonment and to make this penalty more effective, therefore more deterrent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u83	Unfavorable opinion. Of course, the sanction of a platform, therefore of a legal person, does not entail imprisonment. It was not useful to exclude it expressly in the text. The quantum used here is consistent with that applicable, for example, for the prohibition of advertising in favour of a candidate in an election. Therefore, there is no disproportion or breach at the sentencing level. I would add that the limits on penalties for legal persons are five times higher, in accordance with the provisions of the ordinary law of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u84	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u85	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u86	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u87	Madam rapporteur, you agree that the penalty is not applicable and we will obviously not be able to send Facebook or Sputnik France to prison, but you are also making it clear that the penalty is maintained. Is that it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u88	I said that there was no need to exclude it expressly and that the ceilings were fivefold.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u89	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u90	It's about pointing to a contradiction: why the transparency obligation of the platforms you're asking for – after all, why not? – Should it be limited to election periods? Public opinion, the opinion of the citizens, is not only forged in those moments. The electoral moment, often, is the culmination of a reflection. Limiting such a democratic requirement gives the unpleasant impression that, when positions are at stake, the law would be somewhat different from what it is outside of the election period. For our part, we ask that this obligation of transparency on the platforms be permanent so as not to give the impression that a caste – as I say – would self-protect itself the time of an election, considering that more firm measures would then be required but not in other periods. I repeat: public opinion is forged during permanent debates – that is at least what we want – and not only in the limited moment when information is concentrated, until often saturation. That is the meaning of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u92	Unfavorable opinion. I think I'll give you the same answer as at first reading. We had considered the generalisation of this obligation on all platforms, but we have ruled out this possibility because I do not see what basis it would be possible to link such a general obligation with the e-commerce directive, i.e. with freedom to trade, and with the freedom to provide services. We therefore limited it to the election period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u93	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u94	You wish to extend the information obligations of the platforms but only when the promotion of information relates to a debate of general interest. This concept seems very vague to us. I said earlier: we would like to accompany you in the need for transparency, but why would such an obligation apply only to a debate of general interest? I continue with what I said earlier: there are moments, even private ones, when many people, whether or not they are actors in public life, are questioned in these platforms or would like to be assured that the data they have published are not being used against them. The concept of public interest is far too broad. The aim of this amendment is to give it a much less vague definition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u96	Unfavorable opinion for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u98	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u99	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u100	It is paradoxical to have been accused of any phagocyter, of being liberticides, and now to judge that we are in "the general extension of the field of struggle"! It can make you smile! Finally, a large part of these issues will be addressed in Article 8a through forms that I believe are much more appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u101	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u102	We almost agreed when you failed to propose a rule of transparency as to the amounts of certain remunerations. Two things, however, prevent me from joining your proposal. You set a remuneration threshold, set by regulation, from which the obligation of transparency will take effect. In other words, you want transparency for only some, and you keep this vagueness, which is dear to you, as for those who will be concerned. To believe that this bill allows us to circumvent the rules that it is trying to create! It is clear that such a rule will make it possible to circumvent the entire system. Many fictitious intermediaries can be used to pay many remunerations, specifically located just below the threshold set so that this activity remains non-public. If the majority really wanted to change things, it would have proposed an obligation of transparency on the remuneration received in exchange for the dissemination of information. However, we are far from the point of view. I therefore propose to remove the barriers to full knowledge of these remunerations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u104	Unfavorable opinion, in line with what I had the opportunity to say: concern for proportionality, in the end, to make it more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u105	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 12 and 16. Amendment No 12 is being defended. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u106	The paragraphs concerning the interim procedure should be deleted. We've already talked a lot about it. The rapporteur has often repeated: "No, no, no! "That's not true!" or "That's not true! » without ever convincing me...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u107	I don't think I'll ever make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u108	... as to the scope, effectiveness and even practicability of this device. I don't know how many election campaigns you've been involved in as a campaigner or candidate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u109	One!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u110	[[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] ... but I can tell you that when we witness difficult campaigns that will lead to an out-of-country judicialization, we will see far fewer judges of interlocutors who can decide a situation in 48 hours or in good conditions in order to make a fair decision. The democratic danger is real. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u112	Unfavorable opinion. I certainly participated in less campaign than you, Mrs Faucillon, on the other hand, I pleaded for almost nine years at the Paris Press Law Bar.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u113	You're not involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u114	I defended journalists and editors. I repeat: this text does not in any way await the right of the press and freedom of expression. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u116	Unfavorable opinion. I would like to stress one point: it is not the authors of false information that are targeted by this text but the broadcasters. It is important to note this: the aim here is not to punish the perpetrators – it is the role of the penal provisions – but to stem the spread of false news. This responds to a concern for efficiency during an election period given the urgency and seriousness of the issues: it is necessary to be able to stop broadcasting without having to prosecute the author, especially since the author is not always easily identifiable and can sometimes be anonymous. This power is entrusted to the only judicial judge, I repeat, who is in accordance with the Constitution the guarantor of individual freedoms. I also repeat that this text, more generally, does not introduce new prohibitions. I wanted to say this again: this text is only intended to better enforce the existing rules by adapting them to the new realities as characterized in previous interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u117	That doesn't mean anything anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u118	Very unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u119	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u120	It is not very correct on the part of our colleague Faucillon to mention the youth of the rapporteur in politics...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u121	I'm not an old man!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u122	...that would prevent him from understanding what's happening. We could offer you an internship in the courts. You would meet with the judges of the courts of main instance and they would tell you that it is perfectly possible to rule in 48 hours on an application for interim relief. The judge of the interim order is that of urgency, the judge of obviousness. Go to your constituencies but I also invite you to my own, to Castres or to Albi, and the judge of the referenda will tell you that it is quite possible, in forty-eight hours, to take an order for interim relief!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u123	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u124	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u125	Thank you for your delicacy and insinuation on age. Bravo! You feel blamed, at all times, as soon as there is an electoral campaign, whether or not you have participated, several times or only once. I mean... that's absolutely not the problem, we don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u126	Mrs Faucillon, you are discovering internal democracy, it is already good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u127	A question for the rapporteur or the minister: when a person has referred the case to the judge for a "infox", for a false information, I imagine that he will be notified that the judge was properly seized of it before the decision was rendered within 48 hours. In this case, it is not the judges who are involved, but rather the candidates, the activists, during the election campaigns. It is not your former profession that I was aiming for, Madam draftswoman for opinion, I am sorry that you believed it! Imagine that during these campaigns, on social media and on platforms, all documents proving that you have seized the judge are posted permanently. The judicialization, the offending to the candidates opposite will be even stronger. That's only what we're trying to explain to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u128	I have before me two amendments, Nos 21 and 23, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u129	False information, given its changing nature, is complex to define: it may be a piece of information invented to harm, but also a simple involuntary error. That is why we consider it essential to be able to characterize the "intention to harm" of the person who disseminates the false information. We propose, with this amendment, to insert the words "intention to harm" in paragraph 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u130	I call Mr Eric Diard to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u131	This amendment is quite similar to that of my colleague. In the wording of article 1, the word "voluntary" is inserted into an alternative list, which may suggest that the intentional element is not necessary. But it seems essential to me. That is why I propose to add the word "knowingly" to clarify that this information is "knowingly deliberately disseminated": this refers to the fact that the broadcaster of the information is himself fully aware of the erroneous nature of the information and of the fact that it is likely to alter the sincerity of the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u132	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u133	Even if I understand the philosophy of these amendments, I will give them an unfavorable opinion. Intention to harm is an extremely difficult test to prove. On the other hand, at the first reading, I had indicated that it was already included in the interim procedure, which makes it possible to exclude clearly those who did not act deliberately. I prefer the idea of deliberate action to that of an intention to harm, which is more difficult to prove. I am also against Mr. Éric Diard's amendment, because the words "knowingly" and "deliberately" seem redundant to me. The addition of the word "knowingly" does not contribute to the intelligibility of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u135	I would point out, as I have said in connection with the previous amendments, that the interim procedure is not intended to punish the author for disseminating false information. I would add that one of the conditions for implementing the interim measure is that the dissemination of false information is carried out deliberately, which is perfectly synonymous with knowingly distributed information. Therefore, the introduction of a criterion of intent does not seem appropriate. For this reason, the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u136	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u137	We saw it at first reading and we see it again tonight, the fight against false information is an area that is not always easy to identify. Indeed, how can we determine whether information is actually true or false? In addition, the text speaks of "misinformation", but any information may vary according to the different sources interviewed and may contain inaccurate elements. In addition, how can we determine whether the inaccurate material has been disseminated in good or bad faith? These are all questions that deserve to be asked. I would point out, Madam draftsman, that the Council of State itself, in its opinion of 19 April 2018, has admitted that the facts constituting false information are difficult to legally qualify. That is why it seems to me that a single judge, when he or she has to make a quick decision, cannot effectively work on such cases, in times as sensitive as election periods. I therefore propose that it be not a single judge, but a panel of three judges, who will rule within the same time limits – I insist, because it is important – and by a majority of two out of three judges, in order to ensure the quality of their deliberations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u139	Unfavorable opinion. I understand your concern to protect freedom of expression, Mr. Diard, but I do not think it is possible, materially, to systematize the use of collegial training. In addition, we already have an important safeguard in the law, article 487 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides that the judge of interim measures may refer the case to a collegiate body at a date fixed by him. This article allows, in case of necessity, a decision to be taken in a collegial manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u141	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u142	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u143	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 14, concerning the judge for interim measures. Your desire to clear public debates from the false information that might flow there is quite deplorable in my view, as it reflects a terrible lack of confidence in voters. In your opinion, the latter would not be able to sort out the various information disseminated, whereas a judge of the interlocutors could rule in less than 48 hours! Let me once again express my concern at this mechanism, which seems to me to be rife. You have stated in committee, Madam rapporteur, that the judge referred to shall not pronounce himself "only if the documents in the file show evidence and lead to a result which is not likely to give rise to controversy". If I may quote from your remarks, it is to tell you that the only obvious evidence of this work in committee is precisely that there is no evidence. There was no consensus on the definition of false information, and what is surprising is that this does not seem to hinder the majority, who prefer to go into force and take refuge in a kind of moralism. It is assumed, however, that the trial judge will be in danger of deciding, in the absence of a clear definition. But, to hear you, there's nothing to worry about! In the absence of evidence, the judge will only have to suspend his opinion. And that's where we understand that this draft device may have the opposite effect to the one you're looking for...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u145	... because if the judge does not pronounce himself, for example because he lacks time to deal with a complex case, false information will be deemed reliable or true by our fellow citizens, without anything in fact guaranteeing that it is. Thus, not only does this device not solve the problem but, in my view, it worsens it. And that is why I am requesting the deletion of paragraph 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u147	Unfavorable opinion. I can confirm what I said in committee. The purpose of the definition of false information was to put out of play opinions and value judgments. That is the least we can do if we want to guarantee freedom of expression. As far as the need for recourse to the judge for interim measures is concerned, I shall say no more, because I have already spoken on this subject earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u148	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 13 and 14. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u149	It is an amendment of common sense. We hope that the decision of the interim judge will be taken in a collegial manner, i.e. that the case will be decided by several judges sitting and deliberating together. This principle of collegiality offers several guarantees, both for judges and for litigants. On the one hand, collegiality allows the magistrate to train and enrich his reflections in contact with his colleagues. It also provides it with protection which guarantees the serenity of the deliberations and the independence of its decision. On the other hand, collegiality assures the justiciable a measured decision, unlikely to have been influenced by the partiality of a single judge and endowed with greater authority. The direct consequence of this amendment will be the limitation of infringements of the right of fundamental freedoms that may arise from the adoption of your bill, including the freedom of expression and the proper functioning of the judicial authority. In order to allow the judge to justify such a difficult and cumbersome decision in 48 hours, I would ask you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u150	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u151	Allowing a single judge to rule on the qualification of false information – an exercise which, whatever it is said, is quite complex – in just 48 hours seems very risky. The intervention of a collegiate training would seem to provide more guarantees as to the quality of the judgement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u152	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u153	As I have already mentioned in connection with the previous amendment, I am not in favour of a principle of collegiality in this matter. I repeat, moreover, that there is already a provision which makes it possible to use collegiate training. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u154	I have before me an amendment No 25, as corrected, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 49. Mrs Naïma Moutchou, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u155	This amendment concerns the appeal against the order which could be made at first instance. First of all, I would like to point out here that I do not create a channel of appeal, since it already exists in law. What I propose with this amendment is the creation of a rapid appeal procedure: I propose that it be possible to appeal within 24 hours and that the appeal judge decide within 48 hours. During the election campaign period, when the deadlines are approaching, we must move quickly: it is the same logic as for the trial judge and there is no reason why the appeal time should be longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u156	The Minister has the floor to support Subamendment No. 49 and to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 25, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u157	I'll say a word from the call first. In the text, as adopted on first reading, an appeal may be lodged against the decision of the judge for interim measures. The appeal is a fundamental right for this procedure and it has never been called upon to be removed. You propose, Madam draftsman, to guide the appeal procedure, providing that the appeal procedure must be completed within 24 hours of the decision and that the appeal judge must decide within 48 hours. I welcome your willingness to ensure the proper administration of justice and share it, of course. It is of the very nature of the interim procedure that we create that we put an end to the campaigns of manipulation of information before the election takes place. However, I do not think that the framework for the appeal within 24 hours, rather than the 15 days provided for in the common law, is the solution to secure this timetable. There is every reason to believe that, most of the time, the parties will appeal within minutes or hours of the first instance decision, taking into account the matter. But in order to preserve the right to an effective remedy, I would like them to have more time to assess the appropriateness of an appeal. In any event, even with a reduced appeal period of 24 hours, there is a risk that the judgment will be delivered after the election, if the order of the High Court is issued the day before or the day before the election. I therefore do not wish to introduce this derogation from the general rule of law. On the other hand, once the appeal judge has been brought before him, I fully agree with you that he should be dealt with promptly, as is intended for the first judge. That is the meaning of the Government's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u158	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u159	Before I give my opinion, I will ask a question: you are right, minister, when there is an emergency, we appeal very quickly. Even if the common law period is 15 days, an appeal should be made within the first few hours. The problem is elsewhere: what happens if, within fifteen days, a decision is made to appeal after the elections? The judge could then turn into a tool in the hands of anyone who wishes to harm the elected candidate. What guarantees can you give us to avoid this risk?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u160	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u161	I understand your legitimate concern, Madam rapporteur, about late appeals that could distort or insecure the outcome of an election. The regulatory nature of the appeal period gives us an immediate ability to adapt. Therefore, if the risk that you expose becomes a reality, the Government would take all the consequences by reducing the appeal period and making the necessary decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u162	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u163	I take it from your answer that the judge on appeal would rule within 48 hours, which would be very quick. Thank you for your reply, which reassures me, and I give an opinion in favour of your sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u164	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u165	This ubiquitous exchange between the rapporteur and the minister was very interesting in that it reveals what the text bears in the seeds of unmanageable for future elections. Imagine that in every electoral district where candidates feel the situation is running away from them, they multiply their appeals. How can you believe these cases will be tried in 48 hours? Moreover, the calls made after the elections will have the consequence of casting reproach on the candidates and the potential winners, and to multiply endlessly the disputes, the cancellations of elections, simply because the deadlines could not be respected. Today, our legal arsenal already punishes false news. You do not pave the way for calm and calm debates. On the contrary, this measure will lead to further judicialization of the daily life of the French, in this case our electoral life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u166	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u167	I would like to go along with the rapporteur. If the judge makes a decision on appeal after the election that overturns the writ, it would no longer be the sincerity of the election that would be called into question and it would be extremely serious! Even if we are not in favour of this mechanism, it is very important to measure its scope this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u168	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u169	I remember that, at first reading, Mrs Le Pen, by a fantastic demonstration, had explained to us how the defamation procedure she had introduced had arrived far too late, which had prevented her from being restored to her rights at the time of the election. It is for this reason that a procedure has been introduced before the judge for interim measures, and the possibility of appealing against the judgment. The explanations provided by the rapporteur and the Minister are sufficient to demonstrate that the system is secure. Our group will therefore vote on the sub-amendment and the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u170	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u171	I'm not going to call the exchange a uhuesque, but at least a stingy one. We are asked to vote on a provision that is not known in advance, since the minister explains to us that, in case of difficulty, she will reserve the possibility of amending the device by order-in-council! It would be necessary to know the content of the provision we are voting on this evening. What will be the call times? Will it be possible or not to run after the election?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u173	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u174	This procedure will allow for a quick response so as not to call into question the outcome of the election. The standard time limit for an interim order is 15 days. In this case, it is limited to 48 hours to avoid the difficulties you have raised. The measures you have taken enable you to react very quickly, both in the first instance and on appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u175	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u176	The system is very complex, do not deny it. At first reading, we wanted to go in that direction, which you refused. That's quite eloquent. I would rather support the minister's sub-amendment, but Mrs Faucillon's risk of a judicialization of the debates has been proven, especially in the last straight line. This will be a source of great confusion, and voters could be influenced by it. Those who have appealed will not fail to criticise freely and to leave doubt about the validity of the election. It is indeed the extreme complexity of the system that you are proposing to us that could call into question the sincerity of the vote, while the legislative arsenal that we had at our disposal enabled us to respond to any difficulties. You are making an instrument that will turn the last week of the elections into a furious legal battle, threatened by questioning the results, whatever they may be. Once again, you offer us a hazy and dangerous device for the sincerity of the vote. We didn't need that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u177	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u178	The new interim procedure introduced in article L. 163-2 of the Electoral Code refers to false information disseminated through an "on-line public communication service". The notion of online communication service to the public is a source of ambiguity with regard to online press services. Several organizations have criticized this provision, expressing concern about the risk of misuse of this procedure to prevent the dissemination of certain information and thereby undermine freedom of expression. Indeed, we are outside the current legal framework of freedom of expression and freedom to inform. The risk of maintaining confusion between Internet platforms and professional information media is high. As it stands, online news sites could be subject to this new procedure, which would endanger the entire news chain. This amendment therefore tends to exclude online press sites from this system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u180	Your amendment is satisfactory, honourable Member, because, because of the cumulation of criteria – massive, automated and deliberate dissemination, which means knowingly sharing false information – journalists are not covered by the device. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u182	You are proposing to exclude from the reference the information provided by journalists, but I would like to go back to this important notion. In no case does the interim procedure refer to the authors of false information, but only to the manner in which information is disseminated which is manifestly false. As you rightly explain, when information is provided by information professionals, the risk that it is clearly false is much lower. In fact, the ethical requirements, the collation of information, the collective work of the editorial staff, the revisions by the editors in chief, the exchanges around the work originally accomplished, enrich and make the initial investigation more reliable. However, one cannot entirely exclude the hypothesis of manifestly false information published by a press body, then artificially and massively disseminated on a social network. It must therefore be possible for any manifestly false information, whatever its origin, to be submitted to the court in case of mass and artificial dissemination. That is why I am against your amendment, which does not mean that journalistic work will be called into question. I repeat, the trial judge is a judge of the obvious. What has necessitated a long-term investigation cannot, of course, be re-established by the judge within the time limit of the interim order. Once there is any doubt, it will necessarily give precedence to freedom of expression and the right to information. The investigative capacity of the press and the protection of the confidentiality of sources will thus be fully preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u183	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u184	This clause applies to Senate elections and I would like to remind honourable senators that they have been fiercely opposed to this bill. It seems to me that they are speaking knowingly. It would be regrettable not to listen to their views. Similarly, the Joint Joint Committee was unable to reach agreement on the matter. The majority of this same commission used the term "unsuited" to describe this reform, quite rightly. All possible and conceivable grooming measures will, alas, not suffice to limit the breakage. Things are quite simple: freedom of expression is a fundamental principle of our political life, more broadly of our social life. To be legislating on a subject which affects freedom of expression therefore requires, on our part, the greatest precaution. I would like to add, to the attention of my colleagues who are not yet convinced of the dangerous nature of this bill, that moralism has never been able to attack the root of a problem. On the contrary, this moralism confronts us today with a risk of censorship that must be denounced, especially since the current debate is organized in spite of all common sense and that in the end it infantilizes the French, as if they had to expect from the law or the judge to tell them what to think. Of course, I regret, like all of you, that false information is circulating on the Internet or in the media, but this bill is not the solution. The 1881 Act contains all the solutions within it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u186	You deplore the dissemination of false information while proposing to do nothing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u187	Two speakers are inscribed on rule 3. I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u188	This article comes about because, according to the coincidences of the electoral calendar, the 2019 European elections will be the first to fall under the regime of this bill. This will be a major test, first of all because these elections are the accumulation of 27 national elections, which open so many windows for the spread of false information and other foreign attempts to manipulate voters. The cyber-attack foiled last week in the Netherlands has demonstrated this again. On the other hand, in the same way, but in a less hidden way, some people, starting with Steve Bannon, are openly showing their willingness to campaign on our continent. No one should be fooled. Its objective is extremely clear: to destroy the European Union. His methods are known and tested with Donald Trump: destabilize the election by using massive false information. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In this context, it is the responsibility of the national and European authorities to prevent the dice from being tapped even before the election took place – the Brexit vote was a very eloquent example. We must prevent any form of destabilization aimed at destroying or weakening the European Union and protecting at all costs the confrontation of ideas with large-scale manipulations of opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u189	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u190	Our colleague's words are eloquent. I do not wish for the destruction of the European Union, but wish for it is a point of view: I hope that you do not intend to legislate to prevent the expression of this point of view in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u191	That would be delusional!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u192	I have no sympathy for Mr Bannon, quite the contrary. But your words are incredible. Do you measure the scope of your remarks? Should we legislate because a political person would like to participate in the debate with the aim of destroying the European Union? I repeat: that we must end the European Union is a point of view that it must be possible to defend in the public debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] I believe that you do not take the measure of the mechanism that you propose to us, which may prove to be progressively liberticide, if it is intended to prevent the expression of opinions in the forthcoming debate. The fact that you insist, without any impact assessment, on the need to adopt this text before the European elections is a matter of concern. Do you really intend to legislate to prevent the expression of those who are opposed to the European Union? Frankly, that's pretty disturbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u193	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u194	First of all, I would like to know the false information that has been disseminated by Mr Bannon: I am not aware of it. We have already stressed that when you do not like the results of the referendums, as on the Brexit or the independence of Catalonia, it is because the elections have been rigged. It's beyond measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u195	It's even big shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u196	I call for the deletion of Article 3, as I have asked for from the previous two, because it too follows a moralizing logic that seeks to restrain any information that is not right for you. I am speaking with knowledge of the matter, since at first reading I suffered the lightnings of the minister, for having dared to say what I thought on several subjects. I would like to take advantage of the defence of this amendment to stress that, while some people deplore the circulation of too many false information, we should, rather than forbid it, encourage the dissemination of quality information. The ban on speech has never prevented them from moving, quite the contrary. She feeds them on the pretext that there is no smoke without fire. We should all think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u198	I am not doing, Mrs Ménard, the Platonic reasoning that you are lending me, according to which everything that is true would be beautiful and good. I'm just telling you that when voters vote, even if I disagree with them, they have to do so with informed consent. That is the whole purpose of the bill. I've already answered you about the usefulness of the trial judge. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u199	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u200	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u201	Madam rapporteur, I was not talking about the judge for interim measures. Your comments raise an ever greater concern in me. What is informed consent? Who decides that consent is informed? Is freedom of opinion still meaningful in our country? Wishing to obtain an answer on this point, I will not even elaborate on the reasons why I have tabled this new deletion amendment, which is part of the logical continuation of the previous ones. Who in France today decides that a citizen's consent is informed when he or she votes? Those are your words. I don't know what informed consent is. Do those who vote as you wish have informed consent,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u202	I just said the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u203	... unlike those who vote for those you often call "populist leaders"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u204	I never used that word.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u205	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] The latter, unlike the former, would not have informed consent. I am increasingly concerned about hearing you question the basic principles of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u207	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Ménard, we will not agree. So there's no point in exhausting me to convince you. I explained to you that the purpose of the bill is obviously not to have one way or another of voting: we want the information that is passed on to each elector to be honest, not to be manipulated. That is the purpose of the text. I would like to remind you of the criteria: massive, automated and deliberate dissemination. This has nothing to do with all the assumptions you've made. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u208	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 32, which is intended to delete Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u209	This article enhances the role of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel in combating the dissemination of false information during elections. For example, the CSA could reject a request for a radio or television agreement in the event that their broadcast is problematic, for example, by involving "a serious risk of a violation of the dignity of the human person". Allow me to draw your attention to one of the conditions that may justify such a refusal: in the event of a "serious risk" of harm "to the protection of public order, to the needs of national defence or to the fundamental interests of the Nation, including the regular functioning of its institutions". The question is no longer, here, whether information is true or false, but whether it undermines the power in place. Such an article therefore goes far beyond the scope of the bill, which, I would remind you, is, in your opinion, intended to protect the sincerity of elections and must be limited to the three months preceding an election. Thus, the APF could censor information that is fair but likely to undermine a government's reputation in the name of state reason, with a view to protecting the regular functioning of institutions. I remind you that, in 2014, the CSA banned the release of the video Dear Future Mom, produced by an association working on the integration of people affected by Down syndrome, on the pretext that it was not "of general interest". One wonders how this clip, in which young Down syndromes bear witness to their love for their mother, could be controversial. This example, among others, of the exceeding of its power by the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel allows me to question its ability to discern. Those are the reasons why I am requesting the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u210	I call Mr Bruno Studer, chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u211	Article 4 does not only concern the election period. Moreover, I do not see how the adoption of Council of State jurisprudence – what Article 4 does – could undermine freedom of expression. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u212	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u213	The aim of this amendment is to combat misinformation and manipulation of the public for commercial interests. Patrick Le Lay, former president and chief executive officer of TF1, had thus stated in the book Leaders in the face of change, published in 2004: "There are many ways to talk about television. But from a "business" perspective, let's be realistic: the basic job of TF1 is to help Coca-Cola, for example, to sell its product [...]. However, for an advertising message to be perceived, the viewer's brain must be available. Our programs are intended to make it available: that is to say, to entertain it, to relax it and to prepare it between two messages. What we sell to Coca-Cola is human brain time available. » Since the objective of a channel can be explicitly or implicitly only commercial, we would like the CSA to consider whether there is a risk of "disinformation and manipulation of the public for commercial interests", which clearly seems to have been minimal under Patrick Le Lay's mandate. This provision will provide better protection for listeners of radio and television services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u215	Since the concept of public policy is essentially jurisprudential, I do not think it appropriate to clarify it in the law. Moreover, if a channel had no other purpose than to manipulate information for commercial purposes, it would violate existing laws. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u217	Same opinion. I would like to make it clear that section 4 of the bill concerns cable and satellite channels, not TNT channels, such as the one you cite as an example.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u218	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u219	It is true that there is a need for clarification of Article 4, which is worrying: what is it about when it refers to the regular functioning of the institutions? Would it be impossible for a chain to support a day of strike or mobilization? I am in favour of the VIth Republic: would a television channel consider that the Fifth Republic is out of breath threaten the regular functioning of our institutions? All this is very blurry. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the rationale for the APF's intervention, although I would like to point out that we believe that this institution, which needs to be questioned, has a lot of powers. Its president is appointed by the President of the Republic: without attacking the person, I would like to remind you that the current president of the CSA is known for his political commitment. He had partisan responsibilities. The appointment of the members of that institution could therefore be the subject of debate. The aim of this amendment is to extend to lack of knowledge of journalistic ethics the cases where the Higher Audiovisual Council may refuse a convention. The professional ethics charter of journalists of the National Union of Journalists as well as the Munich Ethics Charter of 1971 must be respected. This would help to clarify, from a ethical point of view, the conditions that could justify the APF's intervention. These charters, which are recognized and respected by professionals, would introduce rationality into the APF's judgment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u221	Is it not contradictory, Mr Corbière, to oppose the strengthening of the power of the CSA while participating in it by way of an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u222	It is a matter of streamlining its interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u223	Listen again to what you said: that's what you're doing. I have already pointed out, the reasons why it is not possible to specify in the law the concept of public policy, which is of a jurisprudential nature. The risks you are aiming at are also already covered by the text, in particular by the mention of the pluralistic nature of the currents of thought and opinion and by the second sentence of the second paragraph, which provides for the rejection of a request for a convention for a channel whose dissemination "would constitute a violation of the laws in force", in particular article 2 bis of the Act of 1881, as well as articles 3-1 and 30-8 of the Freedom of Communication Act of 1986. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u224	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u225	Paragraph 3 of the article proposes an extension of the powers of the CSA to the regulation of the Internet, whereas the CSA is primarily the regulator of the audiovisual sector. We therefore propose the deletion of this paragraph in order to refer this debate to the next audiovisual bill and to integrate this issue into a global reflection on the audiovisual sector and the role of the CSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u227	This amendment is the result of a misunderstood understanding of Article 4, which simply allows the CSA to rely on the observation of the environment of a chain, which may not yet exist, in order to make its decision to agree to it or not. This article is not intended to regulate the internet through the convention. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u229	I want to support this important provision, which has neither the purpose nor the effect of extending the powers of the CSA to the regulation of the Internet. Its sole purpose is to enable the CSA to mobilise a bundle of indices outside the programming of the channel. The challenge is to prevent the broadcast of a service whose programming is likely to present a particular danger. This is an essential element of the scheme, which the Council of State has accepted as valid. That is why I am against the deletion of paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u230	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u231	Mr Acquaviva's amendment has the merit of raising the issue of the legitimacy of the APF. For our part, we recognize a limit to this legitimacy. For us as for many French, the CSA is not a representative body but a politicized political tool at the service of a power that seeks to regulate and establish its authority. He is led by a committed man, hostile to a number of political ideas, which he claims. It is not representative of viewers. We could imagine, on the contrary, a CSA representative of the viewers...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u232	What chain?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u233	... or associations. Therefore, it seems interesting to me to point out the representativeness of the APF and its legitimacy. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] We will vote on Mr.Acquaviva's amendment in the hope that, in a future bill, we will be able to talk again about this APF, which is actually a bunch of friends today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u234	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u235	I assure you, Mr. Chenu: The minister has announced a bill on audio-visual for next year. This will be an opportunity to calmly address the issue of the CSA – it is quite possible – without using the vocabulary that you have just used.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u236	Saying that the CSA is a bunch of buddies, it's not insulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u237	It's easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u238	It's a serious insinuation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u239	It's not an insinuation, it's an affirmation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u240	I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 3 and 33. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u241	We propose to delete Article 5, which gives the CSA exorbitant powers without reviewing the terms of appointment of its members, without offering any guarantees for rights and freedoms, and without specifically defining the influence that a foreign state may have on the editorial content of an information channel. The APF is given jurisdictional prerogatives without any safeguards being implemented. Indeed, the appointment of its members by the Prince and the sense of injustice that individuals may feel are two elements that make us think that the APF should not be given new skills. In fact, there are few provisions to ensure a fair trial. Generally, fair trial is characterized by respect for a number of principles, such as adversarial, impartial judgement and the independence of the court. None of these principles are respected in this article. Where is the principle of adversariality when one is tried by one instance, without having a say? Where are impartiality and independence when the President of the CSA is appointed by the President of the Republic? The APF is an undemocratic body. We therefore oppose the transfer of new prerogatives until this institution has been thoroughly rethought. In view of the lack of guarantees for fundamental freedoms and the possible abuse that an authoritarian power might make of them, we propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u242	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u243	In line with Article 4, Article 5 further extends the prerogatives of the CSA. For the sake of consistency, of course, I can only oppose it. Freedom of expression itself is under attack here. The CSA could suspend, during an election period, a radio or television service controlled or under the influence of a foreign state that would broadcast false information. The problem is that nothing guarantees us the neutrality of the APF – on the contrary, especially when we know the composition of this body! The respondents will have 48 hours to submit their comments, but section 5 does not provide for an appeal: the APF decision will therefore be without appeal. Why not? You're always going further! The risk of this article is that suspensions pursuing a political objective would alter the sincerity of the election – which you will admit would be a climax! [[Applause from non-attached Members]] While he is being criticized many times and his usefulness and neutrality are being questioned, the APF will be pleased that he will be served on a silver platter with a new reason to exist. Yet we do not see what still justifies the existence of this intermediary between justice and the French – an intermediary who does not lack air and who now demands that his powers be extended to the control of the Internet. Despite common sense, the majority wants to further strengthen the role of the APF rather than recognize its obsolescence. It is freedom of expression that recedes in the face of censors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u244	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u245	I will try to reassure our colleagues after the virulent words to the right and left of this House on the role of the APF. Ms Ménard, the APF decision is an administrative decision and can therefore be appealed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u247	For the same reason, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u248	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u249	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] There was no virulence in our remarks. I just wanted to describe a fact: as Mr Larive pointed out, the APF with additional powers could become a worrying tool in the hands of an authoritarian state. It is even this worrying tool, because it is already in the hands of an authoritarian state that, as we are witnessing this evening, is reducing public freedoms for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u250	"The State is me! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u251	So we are already increasing the powers of a tool in the hands of an authoritarian state, and I am contesting it. The appointment of the new prosecutor of the Republic of Paris, currently under consideration, shows us that the power never hesitates to appoint its buddies when it suits it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u252	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u253	It's not a suspicion, it's an assertion! We will, of course, oppose an extension of the APF's powers, as we challenge its composition and legitimacy. I repeat, this is not a suspicion or insinuation: we say that it is a group of friends from the same system and serving the same system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u254	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u255	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u257	Unfavorable. Article 5 bis only corrects a shell of the 1986 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u258	I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 4 and 35. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u259	We are returning to the debate on the APF and the powers you give it. There was no contradiction in Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which we supported earlier. These were, in a way, back-up amendments: if the CSA has the power to refuse a convention, as much as it bases its decision on rational criteria, recognized by the profession! But we are challenging your desire to give the APF more powers. We need to ask ourselves about this body – I hope you will think about it in the context of the creation of the press ethics council. Who composes the CSA? By whom are its members appointed? How are they co-opted? On the basis of what criteria? By whom is its president appointed? There is an ambiguity: although the APF is an independent administrative authority, its members are not appointed independently but by political authorities. This should still be an issue for you! If we ask for the deletion of section 6, it is also because the APF has already made certain decisions concerning foreign-influenced media. I could enjoy seeing that you are raising your arms in heaven as soon as we speak of solidarity protectionism: when it comes to bringing in goods or products, you see nothing to regulate, when you see the material to intervene as soon as you suspect a media to convey a foreign influence. [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] Again, we could discuss how you want to intervene: so, one of the foreign media that has told the most nonsense in France is Fox TV – he has told madness about the Parisian situation – but it seems to me that it is to this channel that President Macron thought it was good to grant an interview when he went to the United States. I'm going to be more concrete. On 11 February 2004, the CSA considered that there was a cluster of indications of close links between the channel Medya TV and the Kurdistan Workers' Party, the PKK. On this basis, he refused to allow the channel to broadcast. This decision is questionable. Why was it taken? Is this how we must interfere with the political struggle of the PKK, which I personally support? The Kurdish people are fighting against the terrible situation imposed on them and the repression carried out by the Turkish government. Do we want to put this issue in the CSA's hands? It is to allow liberticide attitudes on the part of a body which, once again, must not have such powers! [[Michel Larive applauds]] We, for our part, consider, as we said in the presidential election, that it would be good to think about a completely different operation. I repeat, I hope that the press ethics board will reflect on this issue. We would even be in favour of all the citizens we are and who pay the audiovisual fee being able to designate, possibly by election, those who make up this body and determine the prerogatives of the latter. Given the stakes of the media, it would be much more democratic to proceed and to confer powers, including powers of prohibition, on a body that is still very political today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u260	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u261	Article 6 grants the CSA the possibility of unilaterally terminating the agreement with a foreign media or under foreign influence if the agreement affects the fundamental interests of the nation. Without unnecessarily prolonging the debate, I would like to ask two questions. How is the influence of foreign media measured in practice or under foreign influence? Moreover, will a media critical of a power in place be considered to be under influence and to be detrimental to the interests of the nation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u262	Good questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u263	What is the committee's opinion on these two deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u264	What you denounce already exists; We simply give the CSA the opportunity to move faster in case of real danger. Unfavorable opinion, pending discussion of the role, composition and competences of the APF in the context of the future audiovisual bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u265	We have been waiting for him for more than a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u267	I have nothing to add. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u268	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u269	I just want to make a little reminder. We represent the French people here, and it seems to me that six out of seven members of the APF are appointed by parliamentarians by a three-fifths majority. I am not sure that there is a real need for a universal election for every member of the APF. I don't know exactly what your proposal is, Mr. Corbière, but I wonder how you'd do it. I repeat, we are representatives of the French people and we appoint six members of the APF out of seven.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u270	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u271	The rapporteur's remarks are still a little surreal! Pending consideration of the issue of the composition of the APF, in the context of the next bill that the Minister announces to us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u272	You're the one who wants to talk about this! This is not the subject of this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u273	... we will give this body even more important prerogatives. Next year, or perhaps in three months' time, we will ask ourselves whether this measure is appropriate and whether we should not go back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u274	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u275	We're walking on our heads! We act in spite of common sense and in bad order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u276	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u277	Mr rapporteur, this is really the world upside down!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u278	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u279	We indicate to you that we have reservations and challenges regarding the APF. But you refer to the Greek calends the debate on its composition and the need to reform it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u280	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u281	I understand that, for you, this necessity is quite relative. On the contrary, we believe that this is a priority and that this is where our debate should have started. I hear our colleagues in the majority ask us how we would have done it, but I thought that the new world was in favour of more participatory and transparent procedures. That is exactly the way we want to go: more people's participation in the APF and more transparency. These proposals are neither controversial nor indecent; They were part of Marine Le Pen's presidential program, and we are committed to it. We hope that this monitoring body will be truly transparent, representative and participatory, and that it will go beyond the framework imposed on it today. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] You are asking us now to rule on the APF, as part of this bill, when perhaps a bill to reform the APF is expected to be introduced in the near future. I hope that it is Mrs Nyssen who will present it to us and that the information that she will no longer be Minister of Culture is just a fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u282	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u283	I hope, Madam Minister, that we will meet again to continue this debate because, in a way, you are making commitments to us. I hope you can hold them on behalf of the Government. Yes, it is important to rethink the composition of the APF. You can scold and scream, but the new world may also consist of asking questions that we had never asked before: allow us to ask one. The APF is an obsolete tool, placed in the hands of power and worthy of reform. That is where we should have started our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u284	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u285	This debate is exciting. One of our colleagues tells us that some members of the APF are somehow appointed by the National Assembly. However, if three of its members are well appointed by the President of the National Assembly, this does not guarantee respect for the pluralism of this authority, while three others are appointed by the President of the Senate and the President of the CSA is appointed by the President of the Republic. In concrete terms, this means that, on a seven-member body, the majority designates the majority of the APF. Ladies and gentlemen, if this method of appointment seems to guarantee the pluralism of ideas and sensitivities within this body, it is quite worrying! Mr rapporteur, listen to these arguments. Perhaps you have better ones, because sometimes you are more inspired than in the words you just said. You cannot sweep the argument by saying that there may be a problem with the APF, while giving it additional powers and saying that we will see on the occasion of a future debate – on the eve of a ministerial reshuffle in which I do not know, Madam Minister, what your future will be. To say that all this will be postponed to later, without knowing with whom or in what discussion it is to maintain the blur and it is not serious. One cannot at the same time explain that the deliberation of citizens can be called into question by mass media campaigns, assert that respect for the pluralism of ideas and the quality of information is one of the fundamental issues of democracy and give additional powers to this body, without hearing the argument that one can wonder whether the forum itself does not suffer, in order to resume the usual formulation, the pressure of manipulations. That is the problem, and from this point of view you have not convinced us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u286	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u287	You invited me to ask questions or even ask questions. Whether it's your group, Mr. Corbière, or, Mr. Chenu, your...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u288	No group!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chenu! Why didn't you discuss the composition of the APF at first reading? This is not the time to do it now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u290	We approached her!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u291	There was no amendment by any of you, ladies and gentlemen, on the composition of the APF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u292	They have the right to do it! It's not too late to go back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u293	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u294	I maintain that all appointments are subject to a three-fifths validation of the members of the Senate. The political trend to which I belong is very much due to this validation by Parliament, because it is of great value. A three-fifths validation by the Senate clearly expresses the representation of the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u295	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u296	Mr rapporteur, we had mentioned this issue of CSA – I had done so myself, using the term "friends" that had already called some of our colleagues. I therefore reiterate that we have raised this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u297	There were no amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u298	Secondly, Mr rapporteur, we are doing exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u299	I'm asking questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u300	Allow us to address, even at second reading, topics that may displease you or hit you. We understand that with this debate on fake news, it was your whole conception of the report on freedom of expression that was on the table – we have examples with what you tell us. I would like to reiterate that we are doing exactly what we want as free parliamentarians – as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u301	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u302	The Act now provides for an organization of the APF that allows it to be completely independent from political power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u303	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u304	Although I am not a member of the committee that conducted this discussion, it seems to me that, from the outset, during this debate in committee, the question of the APF has been raised. However, if I am not mistaken, we were too far away from the text in view of Rule 41 to engage in this discussion, which must still take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u305	There were no amendments at first reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u306	From the beginning, first and second reading, we repeat, and it is a constant of our argument, that it is not good to entrust more power to the APF. In the same way – pardon, Madam Minister! –, how can you consider that the political independence of the CSA is guaranteed when, of its seven members, those appointed by the Speaker of the National Assembly are not in the name of seeking a plurality of opinions – and so is the Speaker of the Senate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u307	There is a validation by the three-fifths of the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u308	Did only one of our colleagues here participate in any collective reflection aimed at defining who should be the members of the CSA appointed by the President of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u309	That's a majority fact, Mr. Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u310	Perhaps I missed a discussion, but did this debate take place here, if only once? Was there any instance in which different applications could be submitted or did a commission work on this subject? You cannot be satisfied with this method of designation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u311	There is a validation by the three-fifths of the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u312	I heard that argument. Mrs Bergé, I am not part of the La République en marche group and my intellectual quotient is probably less than yours, but you will have to repeat the argument three times, I assure you that it does not pass! The APF is a political body appointed by political authorities and there is no process to guarantee the political pluralism of its members. You can repeat your argument more than fifty times, but it's a reality. The facts are stubborn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u314	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u315	This amendment is consistent with the positions I have developed since the beginning of the discussion. Mr rapporteur, I would like to remind you that I also tabled, at first reading, deletion amendments on all the articles,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u316	Yes, but not on the composition of the CSA!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u317	Of course it is, including by arguing about the political composition of the APF. The subject was therefore of course discussed at first reading, then again in committee and now in a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u318	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u319	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u320	I call Mr Jean-Michel Mis, on Rule 8 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u321	This article brings together, for the sake of clarification, all the obligations applicable to platform operators for the implementation of their duty of cooperation in the fight against false information. As we all wish, platforms are at the very heart of the dissemination of false information and, despite the measures they announce, their mere self-regulation is not enough. As revealed in the Eurobarometer survey published in March 2018, 83% of respondents stated that false information posed a threat to democracy. The survey participants were particularly concerned about the deliberate misinformation aimed at influencing the elections. If, in this Article 8a, we leave to the platforms the choice of guidelines to be implemented in their duty to combat false information, we defend a duty of transparency as to the means they devote to the fight against false information and as to the content of these measures. In its report of 12 March 2018, the high-level expert group set up by the European Commission to provide advice on policy initiatives to combat online misinformation states that innovative technologies, such as blockchain, can help preserve the integrity of an article on the internet. Allow me to draw the Assembly's attention to the use of these decentralized digital registers, which would allow the traceability and certification of information as to its origin, author or dating of the information disseminated, whether it be texts, photos or videos. Whether in the United States with the Civil Platform or in Slovenia with the Eventum start-up, journalists and publishing companies have already tried the experiment successfully and this solution is now regularly discussed in editorials. In any case – and this is why the text before us is indispensable – it is through cooperation, with monitoring and control, that each user will be able to have the reading keys necessary for an informed understanding of the information. It is about the resilience of our democratic processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u322	I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 6 and 38. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u323	Article 8a, which we propose to delete, poses problems of automated censorship, in that it obliges platforms to implement measures to combat false information. Instead of setting up a national ethics council, which we call for and which is intended to discuss the truthfulness of information, it is the platforms that will themselves become the regulators of information on the Internet. This provision seems to us dangerous in two respects. On the one hand, the Freedom of the Press Act of 1881 now makes it possible to appeal to courts independent of the financial and state powers to stop disturbances related to the dissemination of insulting or defamatory information. This is enough because platforms are not intended to replace jurisdictions. On the other hand, the platforms already abuse their censorship power in a preventive and very broad way, in order to protect themselves against possible remedies against them. It is the very nature of the platforms that cannot control all the content they host and which have then developed automated algorithms that leave no room for any nuance. The Web that you draw with this article will therefore be watered down, uncreative and bridled, and will only leave room for mainstream and non-contradictory information. It will now convey only information that will support the thinking of the majority. This lack of predictable pluralism seems to us to be very dangerous. We therefore wish to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u324	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u325	This article also poses a problem, because it is the very spirit of the law that is inadequate. With Article 8a, the only online platform operators concerned will be those covered by Article L. 111-7 of the Consumer Code, whose activity exceeds a specified threshold of number of connections on French territory, i.e. only part of the sites. I have one more question: is this fight against false information reserved for certain sites? According to your bill, it is necessary to fight this false information because it is likely to disturb public order or alter the sincerity of the elections. This leads to a new set of questions: what is information that alters the sincerity of the elections? Does any information that invites you to vote for a candidate who doesn't have the desire to please you alter the sincerity of the vote? There is indeed reason to wonder, when you hear your repeated warnings against populist candidates. Would the latter therefore be elected, as I have already had the opportunity to ask, only by idiotic or, at best, naive voters, who would be fooled by false information? It's better to see what you're getting at, and that's a question for me. That is why I am defending this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u327	Unfavorable opinion. I am still wondering, Mr Larive, about your fears of moving towards more censorship, as well as about the link with Amendment No 5 to Article 9, by which you are calling for increased sanctions. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u329	Let me go back to the bottom. The duty of the platforms to cooperate is important and innovative. As we have said on several occasions, platforms are at the heart of the issue of the dissemination of false information. We cannot count on their good will, real or displayed, to self-regulate. The risk is either inaction or overzealousness, which leads to private censorship. It is, moreover, a principle that more generally guides our entire action, whether in the fight against hateful content or in the protection of copyright. The time for the irresponsibility of the major players in digital technology has passed. It is not power without responsibility, and the power of platforms in the dissemination of information is immense. We must therefore invent new ways of regulation, lay down general obligations, leave to the platforms the choice of measures implemented and carry out their public evaluation. The measures that can be implemented by the platforms are based on the logic of transparency and good public information. It is to give citizens the keys to wondering about the information given to them and to enable them not to be manipulated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u330	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u331	This article still concerns the APF; I therefore believe that I know in advance the reply of the rapporteur. How can we entrust the fight against false information that could disturb public order or undermine the sincerity of the elections to an organization that is, in fact, politicized? This is the central question: how impartial can the APF act, particularly within three months of an election. It will not necessarily be true or false information that will disturb public order or undermine the sincerity of the elections, but the decisions themselves of the CSA! To give the CSA the responsibility to check whether online platform operators are implementing the provisions of this bill is to continue to increase its powers while it already has so many – and for what efficiency? Isn't that an additional risk to freedom of expression? That is why this article should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u333	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u334	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u335	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u336	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u337	We will continue to say that we are challenging the APF, you understand that. We are contesting it for quite objective reasons: how can we give more power to an organ that, today, in the context we know, does not already apply its powers or, in any case, applies them in a completely partial, partial and partisan way? The public service, for example, has every freedom to invite what it sees fit in its prime programming, without being itself under any threat from the CSA. Thus, Mr. Ruquier claims that he never invites representatives of the National Rally; same thing for Mr. Drucker. The APF does not intervene: it does not bother him. Obviously, he takes refuge behind a few texts saying that, on the overall number of hours, the National Assembly is invited on the public service, while, in reality, it is the time of the exhibition and the moment of the exhibition that are important. You want to give more power to an organ that already behaves in a partisan way, bringing together the friends of the system, bringing together your friends – again, it will be without us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u338	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u339	We exchanged on the APF: you now know what we think. I really want to welcome the Minister's statements, which are a great opportunity to open the debate on the National Superior Council of Media Ethics: we hope that it will be fruitful, positive and that proposals that are really useful to the public debate will emerge. The purpose of our amendment is to take advantage of this opportunity: isn't it time, once this council is in place, to give it the prerogatives you want to give to the APF? The purpose of our amendment is therefore to replace the APF with this future ethics board, which could be made up of professionals and citizens. We should look at how they would be appointed to ensure respect for the ethics of professionals and also of the users of the media, our citizens, so that they can make decisions as important as those to restrict or even prevent the dissemination of information. That is the meaning of our amendment: to replace the APF with this future ethics board. We hope to be able to come together on this point as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u340	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u341	The debate will certainly take place in the coming months, Mr Corbière. That being said, you would like to replace the CSA with a National Superior Council of Media Ethics, which you state is a private organization: you are therefore privatizing, by this amendment, the mission that we wish to entrust to the CSA. Clarification is still needed in view of the discussions to be held in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u343	As you know, I have no objection in principle to your proposal for a National Superior Council of Media Ethics. I have also indicated that I am entrusting Mr. Hoog with a mission in this regard. Such a board, however, would have no role in replacing the APF, whose role is very different. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u344	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u345	During the debate on Article 9 in committee, I had defended an amendment to make it systematic for the CSA to send recommendations to platforms to combat the dissemination of false information. On your proposal, Mr rapporteur, I have reworked my amendment to avoid unjustified recommendations: the sending of recommendations by the APF would therefore be done if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u348	That's very favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u350	I understand your intention, Mr Reiss: the spirit of the text is to ask the APF to use this power of recommendation when the need arises. But we should not believe that this power of recommendation would be addressed only to platforms that would not fulfil their duty to combat the dissemination of false information: it can also be turned, in general, to all platforms upstream of their action, in order to facilitate their task. On the other hand, I would not like the requirement of necessity that you propose to add to it to give rise to ill-advised disputes. For these reasons, and even if I share your concern, I rely on the wisdom of your assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u351	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u352	With the last of our amendments, we are going back to a point that I stressed earlier: we must be careful not to legislate by giving the feeling that we are protecting those who engage in politics, while relegating the citizen to the dead end of our debates. Candidates at the time of the elections or elected officials are not the only targets of unacceptable attacks on social networks: a personality, a religious authority, a head of a company – since you want to defend them – or I do not know which actor in public life can also be attacked. With this amendment, we want to combat the online publication of disputed information by strengthening the rights of citizens who, too, could request their withdrawal. That is the meaning of all the proposals we are making, such as the possibility of addressing the platforms to prevent unacceptable, totally misleading information from being disseminated against any of our fellow citizens. This more protective procedure for citizens would therefore guarantee the rights of all, not just those who engage in politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u353	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u354	Mr Corbière, you are in fact targeting cases of defamation, which are not the heart of the text, even if the manipulation of information may sometimes take on the appearance. I agree with you that, often, platforms do not move fast enough to remove their racist or hateful content: they have tremendous progress to make in this area, particularly in terms of artificial intelligence or the training of moderators. But this debate has little to do with the one we are dealing with today on the manipulation of information. The amendment concerns cases of defamation: unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u355	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u356	This amendment of consistency is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u357	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u358	In consistency, this is a deletion amendment: it is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u359	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u360	At first reading, we all recognized that it would be important to work on the transparency of algorithms to fight the spread of fake news. We agreed to set up a data-based regulatory mechanism, i.e. an obligation to publish in open data the results of the recommendation algorithms by the different platforms, in order to allow independent institutions, researchers, regulators, associations, citizens committed to studying the biases, including the possible introduction of false news. Since then, we have started work with the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, within the framework of the digital general statements, an approach in which we reflect collectively and prospectively on new forms of digital regulation. We worked on this amendment and tested it with different players in the ecosystem, leading to a small change. It is therefore an amendment of precision, which does not change the nature of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u361	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u362	With this article, you want to legislate so that all kinds of journalistic organisations, whatever they may be, can conclude cooperation agreements to combat false information. Among these organizations, you are targeting audiovisual communication publishers, advertisers, organisations representing journalists or any other organisation that could contribute to the fight against the dissemination of false information. Are these organisations not free enough to consider these agreements themselves? Moreover, does this really fall within the realm of the law? You often object to this argument when we propose amendments. If this bill proposes it, is there not a risk that, in the long run, the law will impose it? The question deserves to be asked, because freedom of expression is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u363	That, however, deserved an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u364	Mrs Frédérique Dumas, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u365	For the fight against the manipulation of information in society to be truly complete, it must cooperate in all its dimensions. We also know that this fight is being fought at an early age; It's a major education fight. Artificial intelligence, algorithms, and learning machines that analyze our behaviors, open great opportunities for recommendation and customization, but also draw a possible lock-in in a proprietary world where our own behaviors would be replicated infinitely, without the possibility of evolution, thus without the possibility of emancipation. The ever more inventive technological development, especially that of the famous deep fakes, will make it increasingly difficult to separate the false from the true. So it is our own software, our own skills that we will have to educate if we want to develop our ability to discern, decrypt and our critical mind. These are skills and skills that need to be acquired as soon as possible: this learning must be done at an early age. This conviction by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education is at the origin of this article. You have also wished, Madam Minister, for public audiovisual companies to participate in this effort and to develop concrete proposals in this area; Arte, France Médias Monde and Radio France were already very involved in media education activities. You mentioned the creation of a common platform for the various public service media, entitled "Truth or Fake", hosted on the website of France Info. If this platform is of course very useful, it cannot be the answer to the problem, because the one who consults it is, most of the time, someone vigilant, who seeks to inform himself. However, it is all those who are not aware of the subject to be achieved, and this can only be achieved through increased cooperation between the platforms and genuine coordination at European level. You understand that, minister, we are of course in favour of this article. Media education is a top priority that needs to be fully integrated into education, as you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u366	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u367	It is indeed an amendment to delete, for consistency. These are several amendments that I am defending and for which the committee and the Government are content to deliver negative opinions without answering the very specific questions that I am asking. For the sake of the debate and the freedom of expression that we are defending, I would have liked them to have received concrete answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u369	We have already answered your questions during the examination of Title I: apparently, our explanations have not satisfied you. So I didn't think it would be useful to repeat them so much I doubt that I could convince you even through repetitions. With regard to the previous amendment, I could have told you that the law will indeed impose negotiations. We have chosen flexible law as a prefiguration of regulation in the digital age. The regulator's role will have to be reinvented, and this will be the subject of the audiovisual bill that the minister announced next spring. With regard to this deletion amendment, we are not going to repeat the debate we had at first reading. I will present to the committee tomorrow a report on school in the digital society where I address these issues of information media education. This will be an opportunity to ask the question of thinking about what is meant by digital citizenship. I therefore invite you to attend this committee meeting tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u371	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to inform you of my caution with regard to this amendment, which seeks to delete an article offering media education. It says a lot about your conception of society and education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u372	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u373	I strongly disagree with Ms. Ménard when she says that media education would not be conceivable. It's both the MP, the citizen and the teacher talking to you. Today, media and social media education already exists. It must be strengthened in order to combat the dependence of our youth on certain social networks with aggressive strategies. Many young people use these networks, where they find the best and the worst, to inform themselves. How many times have the teacher I am, like others here perhaps, read, as homework, simple copy-paste texts found on the internet! This is a major issue for the public school, which needs to look at this new source of information. This is part of its mission, in the same way as sports or artistic education. It would be inconceivable that this use of social networks, which occupies most of the free time of our youth, remains in the dead end of national education. It's not a matter of disobeying anyone. On the contrary, if the work is well done, it may be an opportunity for the teacher to show the student that he or she can form an informed opinion. You asked us about the meaning of this word: for me, it refers to the ability of the citizen to form a personal opinion by drawing on different sources. It seems to me that this is a major issue, because as long as this education is not done, it is the unilateral propaganda of social networks that will prevail. If this text against which I will vote earlier had a virtue, it would be to give teachers the means to deliver this education which they most often lack. The professional high school teacher I am sorry for the fact that the Minister of Education proposes to reduce the place of general education in vocational education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u374	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u375	We have already had this debate on media education, and we will certainly have it again in the future. This statement could have been a point of order, because of the remark – which I would at best describe as derogatory – that the minister addressed to Emmanuelle Ménard and which was full of implication as to her conception of freedom and education. I do not understand, Madam Minister, what may leave you cautious. Most of all, I don't understand the implication. If we were to enter into this kind of debate, we could ask you about your own conception of freedom – but we only understand it too well through this discussion – or about your understanding of the citizen's duty to tax. We, too, could proceed by implication and malicious amalgam. What you have said about a parliamentarian who defends a well-founded position is unacceptable, scandalous and offensive. When we have the record you have, the troubles you have, we refrain from moralizing others!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u376	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u377	Your comment does not seem entirely appropriate to me, Madam Minister, but I will not go back to that. I made it clear that this was an amendment of consistency. As opposed to this bill, I have tabled amendments to delete all sections. This obviously does not mean that I am opposed to media training. It is true that I have a few questions on this subject and I have not found the answers to these questions in this bill. Who will provide this training to the media? I recall that a number of politically oriented journalists have provided such training in some institutions. If all political formations can be represented to provide media training in schools, why not? But if it is only for one political orientation, I ask myself the question of the impartiality of this training. I don't sue anyone for intent: I'm just asking questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u378	Mrs Anissa Khedher, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u379	This article aims to make training in critical analysis of information mandatory in media and information education in schools. The quality of the information available on the Internet seems to us necessary to train our young people, enable them to develop a critical mindset and teach them to verify the reliability of the source and the content of the information. We believe it is necessary to include it in the law in order to make it universal. Article 9c must restore equality between young and very vulnerable publics. Several studies show that they tend to think that what is published online is true. Disinformation could go as far as cyber-harassment based on false rumours. Nurse in child psychiatry, I took care of teenage victims of false rumors broadcast on the networks. Some have experienced depression or even worse. However, cyberharassment is often based on manipulation of information. Training our students in the critical analysis of online information must enable them to avoid relaying harmful and injuring rumours. It is a whole and it is also a threat to the health of our democracy. Our young people are budding citizens to whom we must give tools to enable them to better understand the world around them. I am pleased that the parliamentary debate gives us the opportunity to include in the law the strengthening of media and information education. With Article 9 quater, this common sense measure will be time-bound and will provide our young people with very important information. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The manipulation of information will never completely disappear, but this phenomenon will be controlled by marginalizing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u380	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u381	This is still an amendment of consistency with all the amendments that I have defended since the beginning of the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u382	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u383	Consistency, unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u384	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u385	Consistency, unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u386	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u387	It is still an amendment of consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u388	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u389	Amendment defended, always out of coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u390	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u391	Again, it is an amendment of consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u392	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Michel Larive, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u393	Such a bill was completely unnecessary, since the Act of 1881 provided for a sufficient set of measures. She's mostly liberticide and dangerous. When I hear that it should prevent voting against Europe, i.e. against your vision of Europe, I say that it is preparing your propaganda. When I see the complexity of your referral mechanism, I say that you place doubt on the validity of the results of future elections. When I see the power you are going to give to the CSA, I find it difficult to imagine the future of the plurality of expressions in the French press. [[Rites and protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am not going to repeat the debate, but it must be noted that this text is inconsistent. The only good news this evening is the opening – albeit timid – that you have accepted on the creation of an ethics council; Of course, all of us parliamentarians must be involved. It is, however, not enough for us to vote on this text. The group of La France insoumée will therefore vote against this bill which does not tackle the real problem of the media: the fabricator of information on the substance. Thank you for not listening to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u394	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u395	But if, dear colleague, we have obviously listened to you! The debate took place and everyone said what they had to say. While each other's positions were fairly predictable, things have evolved somewhat. Of course, everyone recognizes that there have always been fake news, but the idea is becoming more and more present. In the face of this observation, everyone adopted the posture he wanted. I would not like to draw Mr Chenu's lightnings, but Mrs Ménard is still a curious concept of public service by saying that an education in new media should include all political parties. The public service doesn't work exactly that way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u396	One party then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u397	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the end of the debate, we arrive at a text that manages specific situations and promises to be operational. It also allows for significant progress in education thanks to provisions welcomed by all. By entering the hood of the machine to tackle the problem of algorithms and the management of the dissemination of information by platforms, we are taking an important step to take into account today's reality. The 1881 law, which seeks to punish those guilty of defamation, remains characteristic of its time – which did not offer the possibility of artificially and massively disseminating false information. By addressing this new problem, we have helped to improve the democratic debate. We will obviously vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u398	On the whole of the bill, I have a request from the Republican Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u399	At this stage in our debates, it is up to me to express our group's voting position. I do not think anyone in this House is surprised by the fact that we are about to vote against this bill. The debates on a new reading seemed to us to be very laborious and attempts to explain certain changes in position, backwards or tedious rewrites of definitions failed to convince us. We continue to believe that this text is poorly linked: extremely imprecise on some points, almost too precise and a little frightening on others. It ignores the subject and, contrary to what has been said, promises neither to be effective nor to be useful for the proper functioning of our democracy. By narrowing the definition of false information, referred essentially to the judgment of the judge for interim measures, you do not in any way reduce the discomfort it causes. On the contrary, you risk creating pernicious mechanisms that will at best lead to an increased judicialization of our electoral campaigns, at worst to the weakening of freedom of expression and opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u400	The time has passed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u401	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We wish to reiterate clearly our hostility to this bill. We do not want to take the slightest risk of touching, even with a trembling hand, fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u402	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I did not protest when speakers from your group spoke much longer. It is the Presidency that appreciates speaking times. The next speaker is Mr Laurent Garcia, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u403	At the end of this interesting debate, which highlighted the differences in the assessment of certain concepts, the draft law remains unchanged on the substance. I said in the preamble: from our point of view, a balanced text is produced, combining control and awareness-raising measures, which are also necessary. It is only natural that this new mechanism should give rise to doubts, which have been stressed this evening; We must be vigilant in its application. This law, if I may say so, may not be Peru, but it is certainly not Brazil!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u404	Maybe it's Jupiter!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u405	It is important that we, as Members, take up this issue. This is a first step towards better regulation of the sector and we can welcome, Madam Minister, these measures of control, cooperation and, above all, awareness-raising among young people. That is why the MODEM and related groups will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u406	The next speaker is Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u407	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We have already expressed a great deal of opinion about this text. Many provisions, such as Title IIa on the duty of platform operators to cooperate in the fight against the dissemination of false information or the addition of digital and critical analysis training, which is very important in school teaching, seem to us to represent real progress. But the debates have failed to resolve our doubts about the relevance of the new interim procedure and we regret the lack of a clear commitment on the part of the Government to have this mechanism evaluated after the forthcoming European elections. The majority of our group will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u408	Mrs Josette Manin, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u409	I won't take much time. On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I confirm the position expressed by my colleague George Pau-Langevin in the motion for a preliminary rejection. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u410	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u411	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 45 Against 20
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u412	Mr Chenu has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u413	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to make a point of order rule 52. It would be elegant, courteous and judicious for our colleagues not to confuse the Chamber with the drink, and to avoid entering a sandwich by hand. I know that the new world is free from many of the codes, but, out of respect for this institution, for the mandate given to us by our voters and for the staff of the Assembly, some parliamentarians should not allow such behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u414	Who can do the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u415	Mr President, you are right: we do not enter the Chamber with drinks or food. I didn't see it and it wasn't reported to me...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u416	We saw him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u417	[[Smile]] Maybe it's a fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u418	...but your comment allows me to recall this point of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u419	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the proposed organic law. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u420	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Out of politeness and respect, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and Members of the majority for their support, but also all those who have participated constructively in the debate on this important text for our democracy. I am pleased that this debate took place; Everyone was obviously not entirely convinced, but all opinions were expressed. I hope that the creation of a press ethics authority – a mission entrusted to Emmanuel Hoog – will allow us to continue this discussion on subjects of society that are fundamental to the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u421	We have completed our review of the articles of the proposed organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u422	I put to the vote the whole of the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-09-O1012.u423	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on combating fraud. The meeting is adjourned.
