ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u1	The next item is the debate on the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all of you, I welcome the First President of the Court of Auditors. I am pleased, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, that your project has been successful and that we can therefore, for the first time, devote a full week of debate to examining the implementation of state expenditure – and not simply to the Government's budgetary intentions. Mr Didier Migaud, First President of the Court of Auditors, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u2	Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, by inviting me to present the conclusions of the report on the state budget, the National Assembly certainly does a great honour to the Court of Auditors. By this gesture, by your willingness to make greater use of our work, in particular on the occasion of the "Spring of Evaluation" inaugurated this year, you are giving life to article 47-2 of our Constitution, according to which the Court assists all the public authorities, Government and Parliament, in the monitoring of the implementation of the financial laws, and the only Parliament in the control of the Government's action. Through your initiative to rebalance the budgetary procedure in favour of assessing the results of public action, and by using your supervisory powers, you express your willingness to revive an essential objective of the Organic Law on Finance Laws of 2001 – known as LOLF. These developments, the Court has long called for them. In order for them to keep all their promises, our institution stands ready to assist you even more closely: I will return to that. What are the main messages of the Court at the end of its work on the 2017 financial year? The first concerns the performance of the State budget alone – knowing that I will shortly submit our report on the state and outlook of public finances as a whole. The second focuses on some concrete avenues for enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of public action. The third, finally, concerns improving the governance of public finances. To begin with, I will summarize the lessons learned from the report on the state budget: the improvement in the state budget balance in 2017 is actually not significant; It still fails to stabilize the financial situation, and is largely due to a strong acceleration of economic activity – which does not ensure that it is sustainable. Several observations underlie this message. They relate respectively to the balance, debt, revenue and expenditure of the State in 2017. First of all, the government budget deficit – which is only one component of the government deficit, i.e. the general government balance – stood at €67.7 billion in budgetary accounting in 2017, down by €1.4 billion from the 2016 balance. As such, the deficit has been reduced only to the margin for the third consecutive year, even though it does not take into account a revenue of EUR 1.5 billion of registration fees that could not be recorded. Above all, this deficit remains high. Two orders of magnitude show this: on the one hand, it represents more than 20% of the net expenditure of the general budget; On the other hand, it is nearly EUR 22 billion higher than that which would stabilize debt in GDP. The burden of government debt on national wealth thus increased from 72.7% in 2016 to 73.6% in 2017, or 80% of total government debt, from 96.6% to 96.8% of GDP over the same period. This shift puts France at a disadvantage compared to the major euro area countries: several of them have indeed begun to reduce the burden of their public debt on GDP – I am thinking for example of Germany, the Netherlands or Spain. The greatest vigilance remains with regard to the risk of rising interest rates: this is something I want to stress this afternoon. While it has been declining continuously since 2012, creating very significant margins for redeployment, the amount of the State debt burden has increased slightly in 2017. The continuation of this increase would have a heavy impact on the budgetary balance: an increase of 1% on the rate curve would, according to the Ministry of Finance, increase the debt burden by €2.1 billion in the first year and by just over €19 billion after 10 years. As regards revenue this time, the Court finds that their increase is due to the acceleration of activity and to the cyclically low level of the levy for the European Union. In 2017, the government's revenue was €249.3 billion, up €14.4 billion from 2016 and €5.5 billion from the original finance law. This sharp increase is mainly due to the dynamism of tax revenues observed at the end of the year due to the acceleration of economic activity. The elasticity of State taxes thus stood at 1.8 in 2017, well above its long-term value, close to 1. All major taxes have seen their product increase, in particular value added tax – VAT – and corporate tax. The increase in the proceeds of the latter tax is largely due to the surtax decided at the end of the year to compensate for the invalidation of the tax to 3% on dividends. On the other hand, as the Court had mentioned in the audit it submitted to the Prime Minister in June 2017, two revenue items had been overestimated in the forecasts: revenues from the corrective reporting service and non-tax revenues. Moreover, the revenue levy for the European Union reached EUR 16.4 billion in 2017, compared to EUR 19 billion in 2016, the lowest level since 2005. This decline, which is mainly the result of delays in the consumption of European credits, is temporary; In fact, a significant catch-up was foreseen by the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022. Beyond these global developments, the Court draws your attention to the weakening of revenue through mass tax disputes, linked both to the development of Community law in the field of taxation and to the verification of subsequent constitutionality, which makes it absolutely necessary to secure the tax standard. Finally, the third observation is that the state's expenditure grew rapidly in 2017, which is the result of both the decisions taken in the original finance law and the subsequent need to cover the risks identified by the Court in its June audit. As you know, the latter had identified obvious sub-budgeting, large carry-overs from the previous year and various management uncertainties. Their combined impact on the level of actual spending compared to planned spending in 2017 was estimated within a range of €4.6 billion to €6.6 billion. In the end, the slippage was EUR 6.4 billion, of which EUR 4.4 billion was for sub-budgeting. The risk identified by the Court therefore materialized. To cover the variances, a large-scale reprogramming of appropriations has been decided by the Government: massive cancellations and redeployments have taken place. However, they did not avoid a net appropriation of EUR 3.1 billion. This partly explains the significant increase in general budget expenditure. The other part corresponds to the start-up situation of 2017, which is characterized by an increase in the appropriations opened under the initial finance law of EUR 5.9 billion compared to the amounts implemented in 2016. Overall, the budgets of the ministries – excluding debt and pensions – have seen a significant increase, at a level unprecedented since 2007: they have increased by 10.6 billion euros, an increase of 4.8%. By neutralising the effects of certain circumventions of the budget charter, which have brought some expenditure out of the general budget, the Court estimates the real increase in this expenditure at EUR 13.6 billion, an increase of 6.2% at constant scope. The observation of expenditure by nature shows a significant increase in staff, operational and intervention expenditure. Staff costs, excluding pensions, increased by 4 per cent, more than in the last six years combined, owing to the increase in recruitment provided for in the original Finance Act and the impact of general and categorical measures, taken in particular under the "Professional paths, careers and remuneration" protocol. Operating expenses increased by 4.7 per cent at constant scope. On the other hand, investment expenditure remains stable compared to 2016, and is down 7.1% from the forecast of the original 2017 Finance Act. Ultimately, the improvement in the state's financial situation in 2017 is due to the overall increase in revenue, and in particular to a sharp increase in tax revenues, which is higher than the sharp increase in expenditure. This mechanical phenomenon occurred as a result of stronger than expected growth – it was at a rate of 2.2%, instead of the 1.5% rate predicted by economists on a consensual basis in June 2017. Certainly, this effortless improvement cannot be achieved indefinitely, especially since it is probable – and even certain – that we will no longer have to rely on the favourable external factors of the decline in France's contribution to the European Union and that of the debt burden. After a year 2017 of very strong growth in the spending of ministries, the prospects for the recovery of the state's finances for the coming years will depend on its real capacity to control its spending and thus to comply with the commitments of the law on public finance programming. When she says this, it is not for the Court to play the Cassandres, nor to advocate what austerity cure: it is simply a question of measuring the distance between the results observed and the objectives set by the public authorities themselves, Government and Parliament. I should like to point out that the Court does not set any objectives for itself, but still decides in relation to the objectives set by the public authorities. However, this analysis must not fuel fatalism or pessimism. I would like to stress that the efforts that would make it possible to control public finances in a sustainable manner are not far from being out of reach. Policy instruments exist to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public policies; Many of them have been identified by the Court in its work. First of all, I would point out that controlling public spending does not mean sacrificing the quality of public service offered to citizens. Controlling public expenditure is first of all to try to use every euro spent in the most effective way. Citizens expect the best service at the best cost: this is not confused with ever higher public spending. Effectiveness and efficiency are not just a question of means. Compared to its partners in the European Union, France is indeed characterised by a high level of public expenditure – which we do not have to appreciate – without achieving results in proportion. In 2017, French public expenditure amounted to 56.4% of GDP, with an average of 47.1% in the euro area. While some differences can be explained in part by different political and organisational choices – such as in the area of retirement – it is undeniable that France spends more than its partners without achieving higher results, when they are not inferior, which is very often the case. Before increasing budgets, it is therefore crucial to assess the relevance of existing organizations and missions, and to analyse the capacity to respond to new needs through internal redeployments or, in some cases, by fighting against the effects of windfalls. Otherwise, the new means may have no more effect than the water poured into the barrel of the Danaides... Public spending is neither good nor bad in itself: whatever its level, the important thing is that it achieves the objectives set by the public authorities in the most effective way possible. Public authorities owe this to citizens, taxpayers and users. All too often, however, we are led to observe a contradiction between the stated objectives and the cumulative effects of the measures which are successively adopted! This is particularly the case with regard to public expenditure, e.g. staff expenditure, or with regard to the environment. This is why the financial courts are trying to make a few recommendations, to propose a few ways, to help ensure that the public authorities can arbitrate and decide with full knowledge of the matter. First axis: the objective of controlling the wage bill of the public administrations. Such an objective involves measures relating to staffing and management, implemented in accordance with a reflection on the scope of the missions of these administrations. I will cite two examples: the first is the wage bill of local public administrations, which has progressed considerably faster over a long period of time than those of the State and its operators or social security administrations, whereas the rationalisation of the workforce, the development of forecasting management tools, the alignment of working time with the regulatory period, the possible use of non-replacement of retirements – where possible – or the mutualisation within the inter-communal groups are all levers for controlling the evolution of these expenditure more effectively while improving human resources management; The second example, which also illustrates the need to review the organisation before adding new resources, is the management by the Ministry of National Education of its teachers, who account for 36 per cent of the workforce in the civil service, since this management could be improved, both for students and for teachers, by establishing a clear multi-year strategy for the recruitment and remuneration of teachers, which is enhanced by redeployments of resources and based on ambitious counterparts in the easing and modernisation of their management framework. Second lever: control of other operating expenses. In this respect, the Court has often called for short-term investment in ambitious modernisation measures; I am of course thinking, in the first place, of the digital modernisation of the state, which could be amplified by the accelerated deployment of the state-platform strategy and the strengthening of the attractiveness of the state as an employer to recruit and retain the talents it lacks in certain specific areas. In the area of health, the continued deployment of digital public services could lead to major advances in medical practices and in the care of users. There is a need to anchor new services in usage, as well as to enrich and make better use of health data in order to take full advantage of their major potential. Other ways of improving the financial situation of the social security system, and in particular of health insurance: I think, for example, of accelerating the recomposition of the provision of care, particularly in the hospital, of improving the relevance and efficiency of care and of better control of certain high-risk city expenses, which are now underregulated, such as medical devices, biology analyses and health transport. And I could mention many other areas. As a central tool for transforming the supply of public services, digital modernisation could go hand in hand with an ongoing effort to adapt the territorial organisation of these services: with regard to the deconcentrated services of the State, the Court notes, on the one hand, that essential tasks such as the control missions of the Republic of Senegal are sometimes no longer ensured and, on the other hand, that resources continue to be allocated to missions doublobing with powers transferred to the territorial authorities. The important reform movement initiated in recent years should not be interrupted: the tasks of the devolved services should be clarified; Some could be abandoned when the value added of the state does not appear obvious in relation to the communities. As a mirror of the organisation of the deconcentrated services of the State, that of the local authorities was also the subject of work of the Court, following the reforms of 2014 and 2015. They revealed that territorial reform has not addressed the complexity of the local institutional landscape at this stage, as it has not affected the superimposition of levels of public administration, the so-called "territorial millefeuille", and has yet brought only a timid clarification of the competencies of each category of community. The third cross-cutting theme is the control of tax and investment expenditures. First of all, with regard to tax expenditure, otherwise referred to as "tax niches", the Court has often pointed out the cumulative consequences of a multiplication of new schemes with weakly evaluated efficiency and sometimes notable effects: tax expenditure on sustainable development, on social housing and on household rental investment. However, the public authorities seem to have given up efforts to control these expenditure, which reached EUR 93 billion in 2017, an overall increase of EUR 5.4 billion compared to 2016. This growth reflects the inefficiency of capping and evaluation schemes, whose ambition is reduced to every programming law: the cap set by the 2018-2022 cap is thus placed close to 20 billion euros above the current level of tax expenditure, which makes it inoperative in advance. As for the economic and social relevance of investment expenditure, it could still be significantly improved by strengthening the a priori assessment of their cost-benefit ratios and by developing sound economic models. This is in any case the lesson of the work on high-speed rail and, very recently, on the Grand Paris Express. Beyond these concrete avenues, I believe that overall governance of public finances can still be greatly improved. That will be the subject of my third and final message. First, which is the responsibility of both the Government and Parliament: to supplement and make more use of the information available to Parliament on the State budget to give full meaning to parliamentary authorization and control. To that end, it is essential to strengthen the quality of financial texts, in particular through greater respect for some major budgetary principles, such as universality, specialization and sincerity. The Court has had the opportunity to observe on numerous occasions, and already in the time of my predecessors, practices limiting Parliament's ability to grasp public action in a comprehensive and clear way: I think, for example, of the obvious, sometimes massive, under-budgetings that can affect, more or less seriously, the sincerity of the original financial laws. Beyond the infra-annual management uncertainties, these sub-budgetings result in budgets being implemented often very different from voted budgets. For example, the implementation of the 2017 budget shows that the appropriations of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" have increased by 50% compared to the original finance law, and those of the mission "Immigration, Asylum and Integration", an increase of 29%. I also think, more specifically, of the persistence of derogatory management arrangements such as those for future investment programmes or funds without legal personality: these financial vehicles controlled by the State or by other public persons, whose management is entrusted to third parties,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u3	The Treasury Department!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u4	... are placed outside the State budget and exempted, in whole or in part, from the examination of Parliament, for example, from the Innovation Fund, the special energy transition envelope or from the guarantee funds managed by the public investment bank Bpifrance. Reordering is essential and urgent to remove this "grey zone" budget through clear choices between, as the case may be, an integration into the state budget or a genuine delegation to operators. Finally, I am thinking of the practice of putting appropriations into reserve: it has been diverted, in recent years, from its initial objective of covering management risks since, until 2017, it was used mainly to remedy the growing under-budgeting, which deprived its meaning of the relevance of justification to the first euro, altered the quality of the information communicated to Parliament and de-responsible for managers by limiting their visibility. We therefore recommend a sustainable return to a moderate level of reserve, which is intended to cover management risks alone. This, of course, requires more sincere initial budgeting. I note that the 2018 budget is in line with this, with an initial reserve set at 3%, excluding staff costs. It will be up to the Court, when the time comes, to assess this approach in the long term. Parliament must also have greater visibility on two points: revenue forecasts at the time of the review of the original financial laws, on the one hand, and the actual results of public action at the time of the review of the settlement laws, on the other. Despite recent progress, notably thanks to the assessment of the sincerity of macroeconomic forecasts by the High Council for Public Finance, the methods used by the Ministry of Finance to forecast revenues could further increase transparency, e.g. through the annual publication of forecasting models in the annexes to the draft finance law. With regard to the results of public action, I believe that the performance measurement mechanism should be able to be reviewed: its current weaknesses stem both from the limitations inherent in the very principle of performance indicators, and from their insufficient use for informing citizens and parliamentarians as well as for budgetary programming and implementation. However, these indicators are necessary for the dissemination of the culture of performance and evaluation. Efforts to clearly clarify the objectives of programme-funded policies, improve indicators and better integrate them into management monitoring should therefore be pursued continuously. The Court of Auditors is of course ready to assist Government and Parliament in this work if either wishes. The second axis concerns the further rebalancing of the budgetary procedure. I mentioned this at the beginning of my remarks: the ambition expressed by the National Assembly to considerably enhance the examination of the bill of regulations, in order to make it the annual meeting of the monitoring of the results of public action, is a first step towards a reversal of the logic of expenditure on two tracks: a reversal because the measure of the effectiveness of the policies financed would thus become the sine qua non condition of the authorization of expenditure; a reversal because the attention paid today almost exclusively to the means granted to a policy would thus be deferred to the results seen in relation to these means. The latter should be understood as a whole: the State's public policies are not financed exclusively from budgetary appropriations. Thus, tax expenditure or expenditure taken over by other actors, such as operators or funds without legal personality that I mentioned at the moment, can also contribute to the financing of a policy, and it is imperative that they be taken into account in analysing its performance. That was the spirit of the LOLF, and the virtuous link it provided for: to inform the review of the initial finance bills in the fall by analysing the performance of public action in the spring. In order to give ever more substance to this approach, the Court is, of course, also at the disposal of the public authorities, Parliament and Government. I would like to point out that Parliament already has about 100 work done by the Court each year, including the evaluation work that you have commissioned us, as well as the four reports on public finances, dealing respectively with the finances of the State, social security, local and regional authorities and the overall state of public finances, which we are presenting to you in the spring or autumn. In order to put this work more clearly in line with a virtuous chaining logic, the Court could change its organization and advance its schedule of work, particularly with regard to these four major financial reports – subject, of course, to its ability to have the necessary elements on the part of the Government for the investigation of this work. Your policy debate would only be more fully informed. In addition, the format and content of the 60th budget implementation notes annexed to the State Budget Report each year could also be reviewed and clarified with a particular focus on the aspects that you think would be most useful in the run-up to the Spring Evaluation. In addition, your orders for evaluation work could be forwarded to us no longer at the end of the year, as it is today, but at the time of the review of the settlement law, so that we can give them to you before the next fiscal year and thus feed into the analysis of the performance of a particular public policy, always during the Spring of the evaluation. Finally, the Court is currently in the order of battle to increase its activity of evaluating public policies, within the limits necessary to balance its various constitutional and legislative tasks; With those you produce yourself, our work could thus feed more and more, if you wish, part of your weeks of control. To conclude my remarks, I would like to mention two subjects which affect but go beyond the scope of the budgetary procedure and which seem to me to deserve a thorough reflection and debate. The first concerns the strengthening of the scope and coherence of financial instruments. It covers several, sometimes long-standing, points raised by the Court. Some of these tracks are designed to eliminate blind spots that hinder effective government management. The general scope of financial laws could thus be reviewed and clarified, particularly with regard to the State and social security, in order to better cover the overall expenditure of public administrations. In addition, a law on the financing of local authorities could be considered. In order to prevent false savings, such as the simple transfer of a burden between a public administration sector and the State, from being voted on without parliamentarians having all the cards in hand, synergies could be found between the examination procedures. I am thinking, for example, of the revenue components of the annual Social Security Finance and Funding Bills, which could very usefully be the subject of joint debate in Parliament, as there are many common issues and their analysis which are essential to the proper understanding of the overall evolution of public finances. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, it seems to me that the balance between annual finance laws, three-year budgets and multi-year public finance programming laws could legitimately be the subject of reflection. Structural reforms, with improvements in public service as well as real savings, are almost necessarily implemented over several years. This means that a strong emphasis must be placed on the quality of multi-annual forecasts and commitments. In concrete terms, this could lead to greater coverage of multi-annual programming laws and three-year budgets, and ultimately to a re-examination of the scope – and even relevance – of the principle of annuality. On this and other points – I am thinking of the rebalancing of the budgetary procedure – the prospect of the constitutional review offers the opportunity to thoroughly review the governance of public finances. The second and final subject that I would like to raise is intimately linked to this issue of multi-annuality. This is a condition for the major success of public action transformation initiatives: I want to talk about the trust placed in managers to propose and implement bold reforms, always, of course, within the framework of the objectives set by the public authorities. The major modernisations are often carried out in the public sphere by courageous reformers, whose energy and commitment I would like to acknowledge. All too often, however, the latter cannot complete their initiatives, because they do not have sufficient room for manoeuvre or autonomy. However, one of the major objectives of the LOLF was precisely to enable public managers, whether ministers, managers of public institutions or those to whom they delegate their credits, to give the best of themselves by overcoming certain bureaucratic and centralizing reflexes. More than 15 years after the adoption of this law, it must be noted that, in the absence of clearly expressed and voted political choices, the technique of the plane has long been the alpha and the omega of budgetary control. It must also be noted that, if this method has been able to cope in the most urgent way, it has not led to sufficient and lasting control of our expenditure – otherwise, it would be possible. On the other hand, she's very unresponsible. It is therefore to a real revolution of practices that we wish to call today: the ministry in charge of the budget and public accounts should, so to speak, change software. It could really instill in our budgetary practices the spirit of trust and freedom that the LOLF had sought to promote, for example by using multi-annual contracting with managers who are more able to control their resources, by making sure that it pays to be efficient, in terms of pay and career, but also by granting recognition to those who propose, experiment and take risks. Of course, the extension of the freedom of management of authorising officers will have to be accompanied by the strengthening of their accountability for their management, i.e. their accountability regime, which now has obvious weaknesses. Beyond the responsibility before you, and in accordance with the principles that underpin our public financial order, this regime could evolve towards effective administrative and financial responsibility before a Court of Budgetary and Financial Discipline with strengthened and expanded powers. Such a responsibility would result in appropriate and balanced penalties for mismanagement and breaches of budgetary and accounting rules. It would find its place between, on the one hand, a political responsibility, which is assumed before the national or local representation, and, on the other, a criminal responsibility when the seriousness or intentionality of the faults so warrant. Since the two trays of the same scale, freedom of management and the responsibility of authorising officers must now, I believe, find a new balance. Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by recalling that the state's financial situation remains extremely fragile. This probably makes it all the more relevant, if not crucial, for your ambition to create a real annual meeting to monitor the results of public action and, more generally, to promote the search for the performance of public action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] For this ambition to achieve its objectives, be sure that I will ensure that the Court listens to you and fulfils its role of assisting the public authorities more and more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u5	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u6	Mr President, the rapporteur-general, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you, Mr First President, for your presence today in our Chamber, which opens this second time of the Spring of Evaluation – the first having consisted of the meeting of the public policy evaluation committees. The links between our Assembly and the Court of Auditors – which I greet the judges present today – have been strengthened over time: they are now very close. We will further strengthen them in the future, because in my view this is the country's interest. On the occasion of this debate in open session, I would also like to thank all the special rapporteurs and rapporteurs for their opinions. Through their presence and their extremely active involvement during these eighteen public policy evaluation committees, they have shown how indispensable their work throughout the year is. The public policy evaluation committees met for 36 hours and 25 minutes – I am aware that this information gives a somewhat accounting view of our approach, but I wanted to say so. Today, Parliament, taking the opportunity provided by the review of the proposed Regulations, is at the heart of the evaluation, that is, the monitoring of the efficiency of public policies. It was high time to create a moment like this. If such an assumption had been raised many times in the past, it had never been put into practice: there was a complaint about this bill, but the consequences were never fully drawn. I thank the Government for agreeing to the exercise, since we are going to introduce draft resolutions, and you know, ladies and gentlemen, that it has the power to block draft resolutions, which it has not done. That seems a good thing to me. In fact, we have in common the interest of France, that is to say, the national interest, which requires both the proper use of public money and the efficiency of public expenditure. We must also ensure that this evaluation is part of an evolving budgetary procedure. This Spring of the evaluation is therefore part of an ambitious reform, that of a major fiscal semester aimed at enhancing the role of Parliament: evaluation at the time of the settlement law, vote on the settlement law, debate on budgetary guidelines to prepare the next budget, and, of course, debate on the appropriations for the year n+1 as early as autumn. We would, of course, like to make things better next year. We will do so by drawing up in advance, together with those who wished to participate, the results of this first experiment aimed at better budgeting our country's expenditure. Some topics relating to evaluation, selected by the Special Rapporteurs and for their opinions, have highlighted disturbing shortcomings. The Court of Auditors had done the same: in this respect, its reports were valuable, as were those of the Mission for Evaluation and Monitoring, the MEC, as well as those of the Committee for Evaluation and Control of Public Policies. I am thinking, for example, of the energy saving certificates, which drew the attention of Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur of the programmes "Energy, climate and post-mines" and "Public energy service" of the mission "Ecology, sustainable development and mobility". This is an opaque market that is often diverted from its original objective of saving energy. Although the amounts of public money in question are small, this topic is at the heart of many issues. How to combat the risk of fraud? What taxes should be applied to this area of the energy transition? How, finally, can we better control this market in the face of speculative risk? The 18 public policy evaluation commissions have also highlighted public policies that would merit further efforts by the State. For example, our colleague Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur on the "Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities" mission, noted that while the 2016 finance bill planned to spend EUR 60 million on helping migrants reintegrate into their countries of origin, these funds had hardly been consumed: only 16 people had used this aid. What is a public policy for if it is not used? Saving is certainly not juggling, and you said it very well, Mr. First President. Saving is a better definition of the role of public authorities – that is for the strategic aspect. However, saving is also not to include credits and not to use them: Gilles Carrez has shown this in a fairly clear way with regard to the appropriations relating to the "Heritage" programme. Saving is less spending by choosing better the instruments of public action. Saving is also not under-budgeting, thus negating the reality of spending. To save money is to create mechanisms with specific objectives and whose control of efficiency is a condition of extension. We have performance indicators: perhaps we also need to think about productivity indicators? In this respect, Mr. First President, you have referred to the potential of digital technology. Better spending is not to extract expenditures from the budget and believe that they have been eliminated because they have been transformed into tax expenditures or a plethora of funds or operators, into a kind of non-budget land in which it is basically no longer possible to find its little ones. It is from this perspective that we must see in all the special reports a real review of public expenditure. There are not a thousand ways to reduce public spending: in reality there are only two. The first is to reduce social expenditure, to better invent that of tomorrow, knowing that it now accounts for 50% of public expenditure, and, secondly, to control the growth of the public wage bill, both of which now account for almost 75% of public expenditure. No one can of course think that it is possible to control and reduce public expenditure without mastering these two posts. On the other hand, while comparisons are generally reassuring, they are not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u7	Don't worry, we'll make it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u8	Many other countries do better than we do: we must also take them as an example, not rely solely on the situation to improve things and not fear going further. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In essence, it is to this ambitious objective that the next fiscal half-year invites us to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u9	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u10	Mr President, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to pay special tribute to the special rapporteurs, who played a key role in this year's launch of the Spring Evaluation. I also welcome the submission of the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the State budget, the observations and recommendations of which are always instructive. This work is part of its constitutional mission to assist Parliament in the monitoring of the Government's action and the evaluation of public policies, as provided for in article 47, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. The opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, the act of certifying the State accounts and the report on the implementation of the State budget allow Parliament to benefit from a comprehensive photograph of the state of our public accounts. The Enforcement Report, which is of particular concern to us today, sheds light on the review of the Settlement Act. Mr. First President, many of the highlights of your work have caught my attention. First of all, the budget deficit has not been significantly reduced and remains at a high level of €67.7 billion, despite a certain dynamism in tax revenues. It is up to us to keep this in mind in future fiscal discussions this fall. However, we have pushed the deficit below the fateful 3% of gross domestic product, allowing France to break out of the excessive deficit procedure that was initiated against it in 2009. I then note that the recommendations you made in your June 2017 audit of public finances were received with all the seriousness required by the circumstances. The extensive reprogramming of funds carried out by the Government, with the assistance of the Parliament, has thus made it possible to contain the risks to the trajectory. This point was also noted by the delegation of the International Monetary Fund to examine the situation in France, which I had the opportunity to meet twice, with President Eric Woerth in Washington and then alone in Paris. Finally, and with regard to the certification of the accounts, I note that the progress made makes it possible to remove this year fifteen parts of the reservations made on the State accounts in 2016. However, efforts should be continued for the remaining substantial reservations. I would now like to address in more detail the relationship between our Assembly and the Court of Auditors, because this strong and dynamic relationship is bound to take on a new impetus. The report on the implementation of the State budget and the budget implementation notes – the NEBs – which preceded it may be the strongest example, in any case the most recent one. I refer here, of course, to the new Spring of evaluation, in which these analyses occupy a cardinal place. In this context, the public policy evaluation committees, in recent weeks, have consulted all ministers on the implementation of their appropriations in 2017 – the chairman of our committee has recalled this. I would like to stress here the Court of Auditors' essential contribution to this process. Indeed, the sixty-one analysis notes on budget implementation, which cover each of the major public policies, provide a basis for highly important analyses and diagnoses. The quantitative data sets supporting the Court's observations are intended to clarify the budgetary procedure. I would also like to thank you, Mr.First President, and all the Court's services, for the quality of this work which contributes to the proper functioning of parliamentary democracy. I would like to thank them all the more for the fact that the NEBs were communicated earlier than usual this year, which greatly facilitated the work of the Special Rapporteurs on the assessment commissions. The Spring of the Evaluation, thanks to the role played by the Court of Auditors, fluidizes the virtuous link carried out by the LOLF, as the First President recalled in his speech. I want to point out that the budget implementation notes have often enabled the public policy evaluation committees to obtain answers from ministers that were not provided by the budget documents. For example, the budget implementation note of the "School Education" mission revealed that the results of job creation between 2012 and 2017 had been in line with the target of 54,000 posts announced at the beginning of the previous quinquennium, but that only 46,292 posts had actually been filled. This under-consumption was submitted to the Minister of National Education, who highlighted the problem of the level of recruitment in competitions, which results from the lack of attractiveness of the teaching profession. This point is under consideration. This example illustrates the virtuous role of public policy evaluation committees, supported by analytical elements provided by the Court of Auditors. I hope that this first round of the Spring of Evaluation, drawn up, despite the extremely limited deadlines, thanks to the determination of all the actors, will have an enriched posterity. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Eric Woerth, who played a leading role in this dynamic, as well as all the whips of the various groups, who called for this Spring of evaluation, in particular our colleague Amélie de Montchalin. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Because Parliament's evaluation role, ten years after the 2008 constitutional reform, must finally be fully assumed, cooperation between national representation and the Court of Auditors can only become closer. Your presence in this House for the sixth time this year, Mr.First President, and in an even more symbolic way in this House, is a testament to your commitment to the regular and sincere functioning – if I may say so – of our institutions. Thank you once again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u11	We come to the speakers in the groups. The next speaker is Mr Gilles Carrez, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u12	Mr President, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Rapporteur-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the quality of the relations that our House has with the Court of Auditors. The partnership between our two institutions has grown considerably over the last decade. In this connection, I would like to commend the quality of the Court's work and to stress the interest we have in them. I hope that these excellent relations will be further developed, and I thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the rapporteur-general for the way in which we work with the Court of Auditors. The consolidated income for 2017, with a deficit of 2.6% of gross domestic product for all of our accounts, is good. This allows us, as you have just said, the rapporteur-general, to get out of the excessive deficit procedure that has been applied to us since 2009. That's something to be pleased about. But what we must also see is that this result corresponds to a level of deficit which remains high and which is concentrated on the state budget, amounting to EUR 68 billion. It is therefore essential to look at how the accounts, in terms of expenditure and revenue, were executed in 2017. I thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general and all the colleagues who have mobilized to give special emphasis to the 2017 implementation review. I will make a few observations, nourished by experience. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The first concerns revenue. There is a significant influx of revenue at the end of 2017 – 6 billion euros – which is linked to a well-known phenomenon: when growth starts again quickly, because of the progressivity of taxes, there is a strong elasticity of revenues: 1.8. It's a lot, but – I remind you of old memories – it's less than in 2000, when the elasticity had been 4, which had led to the pool. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey to you a message – and only one: it is that we should not confuse these exceptional, ephemeral revenue with permanent revenue, on which we could guarantee permanent expenditure or even tax cuts. In 2000, we managed 100 billion francs of tax cuts on these revenues – President Migaud remembers that. It was then very difficult to return to balance, when less good days arrived. For my part, I hope that the level we experienced in 2017 will be maintained, as far as possible, in 2018. However, I would like to send another message. Moving the level of the generalised social contribution by EUR 22.5 billion is not nothing; To compensate for this in two stages, by the drop in salary contributions, first on January 1st, and then on October 1st, it was to take a risk. Strongly increasing fuel taxation when the price of the barrel was $40 or $50 and everything suggested that it was going to increase, it was also taking a risk. Remember, when the Chairman of the Finance Committee invited him last January, the Director-General of the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, INSEE, had sent us a first warning signal. Mandatory levies will reduce purchasing power by around €9 billion in the first half of 2018. As you know, there is a very close link in our economy between purchasing power, consumption and growth. We must therefore be extremely vigilant. That's why I'm a little worried. In the fall, with the second drop in social contributions and the beginning of the reduction in the housing tax, there will be an influx of purchasing power and, I hope, a psychological change – because psychology is essential. But beware of January 2019, as it will be a terrible month. I have been saying this for two years: the collection at source will have to be the subject of an intense communication campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u13	[[Smile]] Yes, Mr. Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u14	When the Director-General of Public Finance came to see us two years ago in the Finance Committee, he explained to us that for recurring tax credits, there would be no problem, that it would be like before – the rapporteur-general of the time remembers it. We have contested; We said that if we had understood how this was going to happen, it wouldn't be like before. As a result, a 30% advance on part of these recurring tax credits was required in disaster situations. There are also a number of other problems – but I know that Mrs Motin is working hard on them. However, there will be a very negative perception of the reform, and it should not be that after a beautification in the autumn, confidence will be reinvigorated in January. I would like to warn you about this, because, I repeat, psychology is essential. I'm going to spend. [[Exclaims on the banks of the NG group]] We benefited from exceptionally favourable circumstances in 2017, with a European levy of 1.5 billion less than expected and interest rates remaining favourable – this source of economy, which, for the past five years, had become almost structural, now tarnished. So we received good news in 2017 – although they were not linked to government policy – and that's good, because, dear colleagues from the New Left Group, there were sub-budgetings in the 2017 finance bill. We had reported it at the time; This is an objective observation which the Court of Auditors had made as early as July and which was confirmed at the end of the year. The Government therefore had to launch a package of credit cancellations, but that was not enough. I would like to draw your attention to three points which I find very worrying. The first is the dynamics of the wage bill. The agreement on career paths, careers and remuneration, known as "PPCR", is formidable; It will have long-term effects, which have not been able to cool or slow down. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a reduction in the number of staff in the State civil service. The target is a reduction of 120,000 posts in total, but only 50,000 in the state civil service. That's not enough. If we want to control the wage bill, we will have to be much more ambitious about the downward trend in the public service. I remind you of the figures: in 2018, the number of state officials, which is now 2 million, will decrease not by 1600, as I read everywhere, but by 324! The second point is social transfers. I remember that we were told, again, that merging the active solidarity income "Activity" and the employment premium to create an "activity premium" would be a very good idea and that it would cost no more than EUR 4 billion. At the time, we felt that the most important thing to reduce or even eliminate was the non-use of the Activity AHR. Well, with the activity bonus, we got there – at the cost of a totally uncontrolled slippage of spending! The third point is tax expenditure, which is not controlled at all. I have asked, and I thank the Chairman of the Finance Committee for accepting it, that an investigation be carried out under Article 58(2) of the LOLF on the Aillagon Act of 2003 on patronage. You need to know that the tax expenditure associated with this scheme is taking off – we are at EUR 1 billion – and that we have no specific information on it. I therefore look forward to this report, which will be submitted to us in the autumn. However, this example illustrates only a much more general evil. But if we don't control the tax expenditure, I can assure you that the deficits are going to go back. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] A remark to conclude. Everything will depend on the control of spending in the coming years. You'll have to spend better on spending less. By reading the rapporteur-general's excellent information report on the stability programme, one thing struck me: we will have reached a record level of compulsory levies by the end of 2017, at 45.4% of gross domestic product, but by the end of 2022 we will only have returned to 44.3%. We will therefore have loosened the scale of compulsory levies by only one point – which means, in plain terms, that compulsory levies will not diminish at all. As a result, it will be necessary to be extremely ambitious in terms of expenditure control. This is possible, because there are many productivity and efficiency gains to be made; But for this to happen, a number of recommendations of the Court of Auditors will have to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u15	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u16	Mr President, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Rapporteur-General, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to welcome the remarks made by the First President of the Court of Auditors and to thank him for the clarity of the light he has given us. The last few weeks have been marked by two very important moments: the presentation of the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget in 2017 and a moment whose importance was almost emotional, the first edition of the Spring Evaluation. The Court of Auditors' report analyses, in conjunction with the tabling of the draft budget regulation bill, the implementation of appropriations. This report is, as always, rich in teachings and guidance for future texts. From this report, we draw rather encouraging news, such as the lower level of the state deficit compared to that provided for in the original finance law, as well as the acceleration of activity and stronger growth, which leads to an increase in tax revenues. However, many other points must also draw our attention. Thus, the debt burden in the State budget is not yet fully stabilized and the debt ratio remains close to 100 per cent of gross domestic product. On the other hand, the improvement in the deficit is due to an increase in revenue rather than a real effort on expenditure. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement can therefore only draw the attention of our Assembly to the need for substantive reforms, which will make it possible to have a useful, controlled and efficient public expenditure. Despite these reservations, the budget texts, the original finance law and the multi-year programming law demonstrate our willingness to move towards a consolidation of our public finances, in particular through increased respect for budgetary principles, first and foremost the principle of sincerity. We can therefore hope – and I like to think that this is not a pious wish – that at our meeting next year we will be able to welcome the improvement of the budgetary situation and the taking into account of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in order to improve "Parliament's ability to understand the action of the State in a comprehensive and clear way", only to enable it to assess the management of the State and the proper use of budgetary appropriations. This exercise illustrates the cooperation between the Government and Parliament in the search for the general interest, in the interest of France. It is also necessary to limit the phenomenon of funds without legal personality, which, outside the State budget, are exempt from our examination. The Court had the opportunity to stress the importance of their restoration in order to limit the negative effects on the budget. The simplification and rationalisation of the budgetary architecture, with regard to several tasks, represents a real challenge for the Parliament to control and control public money. If the submission of this report is a classic meeting for this assembly, the period of the public policy evaluation commissions that surrounded it is less so. This first edition of the Spring Evaluation, which we will conclude with this week of budgetary control in open session, and the lessons to be drawn from it, are linked to the Court of Auditors' report. These hearings allowed us to examine the various missions, so that everyone was able to make an opinion on the possible efforts, in particular in the area of encérisation – through the limitation of sub-budgeting – or even exhaustive identification of certain sectoral aids, which, although they have never been assessed, weigh on the nation's budget. With an envelope of almost EUR 100 billion, tax expenditure, commonly referred to as "tax niches", needs to be given special attention by Parliament. Sources of complexity in our tax system, with sometimes conflicting objectives between them – and even, in some cases, insufficiently defined – tax expenditure has increased sharply in recent years. If a blind and general rationalisation does not make sense, such expenditure must be properly assessed in the light of its economic objective and, where appropriate, adjusted, deleted or replaced by more effective arrangements. This evaluation work was needed in a framework more conducive to analysis than the fall budget tunnel, in order to allow parliamentarians and departments to prepare well in advance of the finance bill. It will assess the appropriations needed for next year, taking into account the challenges and constraints of different public policies. [[Smile]] In addition, there are already tangible effects of the Spring Evaluation. Indeed, if the swallows do not make spring, the Spring of Evaluation has given wings to several enforcement orders that had difficulty getting out of the nest of some departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u17	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u18	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In this regard, I welcome the issuance of the decree which will allow associations to access the 25 million euros voted in the last PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u20	This decree, long awaited by the world of associations, will allow it to continue to work for the social cohesion of our country. The meetings in committee have enabled us to highlight, mission by mission, budgetary situations which we will not have to repeat, with significant under-budgeting in some programmes – particularly with regard to external operations or assisted jobs – and, in others, a breach of certain budgetary principles, such as annuality. We need to be more demanding in future fiscal years, in particular in order to limit situations of underbudgeting and insinuity. Indeed, if for 2017 the balance sheet is divided between two majorities, this will no longer be the case for the 2018 financial year, for which we will bear full responsibility. With the Printemps de l'évaluation that we have just experienced, everyone is now faced with their responsibilities to ensure that the budget fall is in the best conditions and that the winter goes smoothly. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] With this new exercise, the Assembly also recalls the requirement to maintain a level of expenditure consistent with our revenue; It will point out the difficulties and challenges in the implementation of budgets. These are the tasks of evaluation and monitoring that the Constitution confers on our Assembly: today we decide to make them fully our own.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u21	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u22	Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, and former colleagues in the Court of Auditors, on behalf of the UDI Group, Acting and Independent, I would first like to thank the Court for the quality of the documents it presents to us and for the accuracy of the work done, as well as for the clarity of the statement made by the First President on behalf of his colleagues. The diagnosis made in the report on the bill can be summed up in a very simple way: governments have absolutely failed to adjust public finances – let's go straight to the point. And I almost want to add, Mr.First President: as usual! In this respect, the penultimate government has not, alas, been different from its predecessors. Everyone therefore takes it for his rank: no one has readjusted public finances for twenty-five years, whether because of lack of courage or lucidity, because of the instability or economic crisis, and I pass by. Essentially, the current Government is not responsible for the proposed regulation. I am very sorry, moreover, for those of our colleagues who will be obliged to vote in two days' time, even though only thirty members of the current majority had approved it from the time they were with the radicals of the left or the socialist party; In addition, some 30 socialists, now members of the New Left Group, have joined. So that makes about 60 colleagues – out of a total of 577 – who now have to take on this text. This is a rather strange situation. The current government was heavily attacked for taking emergency measures following the Court of Auditors' report, which revealed a budgetary slippage, mainly attributable to expenditure but also to some revenue. He could be criticized for the content of those measures, not their principle: the Government had basically been right to take those decisions. I want to return, Mr. First President, to a few points that you have raised on behalf of the Court. Not only does the budget deficit remain too high to stabilize the debt, but, above all, it has only been reduced with the alignment of the planets. But these planets are being detuned before our eyes. They were, in fact, totally outside the scope of successive governments: the collapse of the price of the barrel of oil, falling to less than $40, or the interest rates linked to monetary policy in both the United States and Europe. This policy can be criticized, but it was what it was: it resulted in negative interest rates. And the negative interest rates, for those who are interested in the issue, I always summarize the political significance in these simple terms: no future. Finally, the third external factor was the improvement of Euro-dollar parity in favour of the European currency. At a time when all this is disappearing, the deficit in the state budget is still growing, the Court of Auditors explains, to almost EUR 68 billion, a decrease of only 1.7 billion. To be honest, we should say $3.2 billion, given the technical error that led to the failure to record a $1.5 billion transfer fee revenue. But it was "epsilon", in view of the tax gains generated by an exceptional situation, that we had not anticipated at this level. It would be interesting, in my view, for the Court of Auditors to insist on one point. In fact, you noted, Mr.First President, but quickly, at the turn of a sentence: in view of the forecasts of the original finance law, the operating expenses were higher, and the investment expenses were significantly lower – as usual! However, a number of the Court's work, of which you have told us, shows that the state's level of investment has fallen to some EUR 15 billion, out of a budget of 380 billion gross expenditure. In short, there is no longer any government investment expenditure. Many of our fellow citizens wonder why the "hole in formation" signs are multiplying on our national roads. The answer is simple, and the Court gave it to us several years ago: the current amount of appropriations is insufficient to ensure that national roads are maintained. We could also refer to the situation of the state's housing stock... It would therefore be very interesting, I said, for the Court to draw up a synthesis of the various functions and give us an order of magnitude, with regard to the amount of investment necessary for the maintenance, in the medium term, of certain means of the State – since this is, in principle, the purpose of budgetary allocations. The second point that you raise, in time and on the other hand, is that the very strong increase in operating expenses in 2017 is, to a large extent, due to the very strong growth in payroll. This is the first time, in view of the figures that I recall here: this wage bill represented, apart from pensions, 90 billion euros in 2011, 89.9 billion – a slight decline – the following year and 97 billion the year after. We then went up to 92.1 billion in 2016 and to 95.4 billion in 2017! It can't go on like this. We can cut down the workforce while ensuring that they are managed properly – in other words, paying our officials properly – but if we want to keep the workforce while paying the public servants better, then let me have the phrase, we're sure to "get down." In this respect, I welcome the Court's observations on time and in a timely manner. As for the state's debt, it is growing, broadly speaking, as a proportion of the annual deficit, to reach nearly 1700 billion euros at the end of 2017. Again, the timely and timely reminders of the Court are very useful. We cannot limit ourselves to considering the mere assumption of an increase in interest rates: they will go up anyway and already begin to do so; The only question is how quickly they will do it. And in view of the impact that this will have in the coming years, the worst position in the Government will again be that of Minister of Finance, faced with his colleagues who explain to him that they have never enough, reluctant that they are to question the effectiveness of public spending. It is precisely this question that the Court of Auditors, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and many of its colleagues are trying to raise: what is the effectiveness of these spending, the highest in the Western world, in terms of a result that is not the best in terms of public service? Several examples, including major public services, illustrate this. [[Smile]] I also want to say a word about tax expenditures. Can we consider an intelligent policy about them when they reach the number of 457? I told the finance minister of the previous government that he had nothing to do with this. He then denied it, and yet the numbers are there. In short, we cannot lead an intelligent policy on these expenses. Dreaming, as some people like to do, of a great colloquium on 457 measures is an illusion. To act quickly, there is a first technique, stupid but very effective: an overall reduction of 10%. This would not make any drama: the advantage of such a decision is to keep all dogs in the niche, as long as they are all housed in the same sign. I was talking about smart strategy. When a government asked for an assessment of the inspection bodies, have we taken it into account, ladies and gentlemen? Honestly, I ask those of us who were sitting on these benches at the time – even if there is not much left – the answer is no. The problem, therefore, is to define the method by which the tax expenditure is to be reduced. In conclusion, I want to go back to the ideas that you have put forward, Mr. First President. A possible bill to finance local and regional authorities will be discussed in the context of the constitutional reform, as the delegation to local and regional authorities unanimously adopted an amendment on this subject by the colleagues present, all political tendencies combined – isn't it, Mrs Pires Beaune? Secondly, you have developed the idea of better linking the action of the Court of Auditors to the drafting procedures: of course! But also in the European Semester, then in the budget policy debate, then in the finance law: it would be good if at each of these stages we had a little advance – at least a few days – of the Court's analysis. Finally, with regard to returning to budgetary orthodoxy, I am an Orthodox and I will remain so until my death. Mr.First President, we must return to the holy principles: unity, universality, annuality, speciality; and there we will begin to see a little clearer. Thank you, Mr. First President, to you and, through you, to all your colleagues for helping the national representation take over public finances!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u24	[[Laughs and applause on various benches]] Mr President, thank you for respecting as much as possible your speaking time, as important as public finances. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u25	Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, this session devoted to the evaluation of public policies begins with the Court of Auditors' findings, which are always enlightening; The Court is obviously in its role when it points to weaknesses in public management. However, it would be interesting to restate the 2017 management from a broader perspective. Let me therefore raise some of the questions that allow for this. First question: under the quinquennium that lasted from 2012 to 2017, has there been, yes or no, a better control of public spending?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u26	This...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u27	I said "better", my dear colleague. To answer this question, let me make some comparisons. Between 2002 and 2007, public expenditure – all public administrations combined: State, social security administrations, local authorities – increased by an average of €35 billion each year. Between 2007 and 2012, it increased by an average of €34 billion each year. Between 2012 and 2017, it increased each year by an average of EUR 19 billion, twice as much as in the previous two five-year period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u28	What about inflation? We have to reason in volume!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u29	Mr de Courson pointed out inflation, but that was even true given it. We must also consider the sounding and stumbling euro: it does good, even when we talk about public finances. In any event, this is an unprecedented break, and I regret that the Court did not find it useful to mention it. Second question: Under the five-year period 2012-2017, has the evolution of public expenditure been lower or higher than the creation of additional wealth? For in essence, what matters, in terms of public finances, is less to have an ideological debate to determine whether public expenditure is good or not than to study the sustainability of this expenditure: does it increase faster than the creation of wealth? On this point too, allow me to make some comparisons. Between 2007 and 2012, public expenditure increased on average by 3.2 per cent per year, compared with 1.44% of additional wealth each year, almost two points apart. Between 2012 and 2017, it increased on average by 1.74% per year. At the same time, our wealth – measured by volume, plus inflation – grew by an average of 1.89% per year. Everyone will agree that 1.89 is greater than 1.74. This is another unprecedented break: public spending has increased less than our ability to create additional wealth – I am talking about additional wealth. Again, allow me, Mr President, to regret that this major breakdown is not included anywhere in the Court of Auditors' report. The third question is whether or not commitments to new posts in priority sectors have been met. On this point, I thank you, Mr.First President: in its report, the Court provides very precise and clear answers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u30	On the first point too, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u31	... which I hope will close once and for all the debate that some people are opening here or there on the subject. You recalled the situation with regard to school education. The report also contains a very illuminating graph on police, gendarmerie and justice and states: "The increase in employment patterns has continued for the Ministries of Justice and the Interior. The job openings planned following the attacks of 2015 (last recruitment tranche of the PLAT 1 and 2 anti-terrorism plans) have been carried out." Question 4: Do all departments use, yes or no, all the appropriations allocated to them? On this point, the budget implementation notes you publish are illuminating, comparing in a graph the budget voted in the original finance law and its implementation. In the overall report, we would benefit from having departments classified according to their consumption more or less in accordance with the original finance law of the money allocated to them by Parliament. In this regard, I still ask myself questions about the Ministry of Justice. In 2017, its budget, in execution, corresponds to 95 per cent of the amount voted in the original finance law, compared to 98 per cent in 2016. And if we look at the figures in more detail, we can see that, for the prison, a sector in which a lot of commitments have been made, this execution is only 91 per cent. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] In total, the 2017 execution probably does not solve all the difficulties, we are well aware of that. But it ends a five-year cycle that was a real breakup. During these five years, the pace of growth in public spending has been halved and has been lower than that of our creation of additional wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u33	[[At 17:21, Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u34	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u35	Mr President, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Court of Auditors which we are examining is very informative. The former majority voted for an austerity budget, which the current majority significantly worsened by cancellation decrees issued in July 2017, and then by the initial finance law for 2018. On the report itself, the Court's figures show the extent of the gap between the budget implemented in 2017 and what was foreseen in the original finance law. It is true that some missions have been subjected to real pitfalls in their execution, but we do not understand very well the priorities which have decided: a reduction of 2.9% for the mission "Ecology", i.e. a reduction of more than 222 million euros in execution, at a time when the climate is a major cause at national and international level; a reduction of 4.7% for the mission "Safety"; a reduction of 4.5% for official development assistance; and a reduction of 4.1% for justice. In addition, the Court notes that the State's investment expenditure is down 7.1% compared to the forecast of the original finance law, as a result of the July cancellations decided by the present government. These cancellations were actually used to fund, we are told, other missions that had been undervalued in the original finance law. In other words, the previous majority has tinkered and the current plan from one program to another. The total cancellations amount to €5 billion, a record since the entry into force of the Organic Law on Finance Laws in 2001. But the problem posed by this execution is not only economic or accounting: it is indeed democratic – what the Court of Auditors notes, moreover. Indeed, the part of the budget implemented by the Government is even more austere than what had been voted by the previous majority. Moreover, the Court of Auditors denounces the way in which the Government has chosen to execute the end of the financial year, by decrees of annulment rather than by an amending finance law submitted to Parliament. Why the choice? For fear of debate? In our view, this is a very serious attack – one more – on Parliament's role in controlling budgetary action. In addition, we have the impression that we are being ridiculed: the explanatory statement in the proposed Regulations always provides a detailed explanation of appropriations, but generally none on cancellations. Parliament is therefore not properly informed of the reasons for these cancellations, which, I repeat, constitute a record. But these undemocratic budgetary practices are not the only ones pointed out by the Court of Auditors. For example, it is currently impossible to measure the new appropriations allocated to the investment programme for the future – PIA – which are governed by derogatory management arrangements. General budget appropriations are first paid to operators; The funding of projects is then provided, and outside the budgetary framework. This does not guarantee a proper traceability of the amounts invested and, above all, of the new appropriations actually allocated to investment. In addition, the Court of Auditors denounces the use of funds without legal personality, such as the Innovation Fund or the special energy transition envelope. These funds are a source of opacity and a means of circumventing the rules of speciality and budgetary sincerity in order to exempt the examination of these appropriations in Parliament, i.e. national representation. Finally – and this is not a small piece – the Court of Auditors pins tax expenditure on a constant increase and is beyond control. The amount of tax niches reached EUR 93 billion in 2017, an increase of 5.4 billion over 2016. It is time to put a sweep in the most useless niches and whose object is often diverted: the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, or CICE – I will come back to it –, the tax credit research, the niches called Copé or Pinel, the Scellier device – so many financial abysses for the state, therefore for the community, while, I repeat, they are useless. If, of course, we do not agree with the general opinion of the Court of Auditors, which is calling for more and more pitfalls in the name of deficit control, it points to serious irregularities in the management of budget implementation, on which we can join. This budget was similar to the current government's policy as the previous one: severe with some – almost all of the population – and generous with others, the richest – from this point of view, the 2018 finance law reached a record high. While transfers to local and regional authorities have been violently planed – worth €3 billion – the beneficiaries of the CICE have been able to cut off more than one year of financial aid without any result. The CICE cost more than EUR 15 billion in 2017, an increase of more than EUR 2.1 billion compared to the previous year, although, as is well known, the most optimistic study commissioned by the Ministry of Labour concluded that the maximum number of jobs would be preserved, when the MEDEF promised one million. The other lesson that can be drawn from the Court of Auditors' report is that both governments have benefited from an extremely favourable international economic environment, but have finally decided not to benefit the majority of the population. With a growth rate of 2.2%, it was 5.5 billion additional tax revenues that went into the state coffers, without anyone seeing the colour of it, except a few privileged rich people. And because you assume it, you have decided to use this revenue to improve the budget balance first, in accordance with the Brussels injunctions. This growth therefore owes nothing to this government's policy, nor to that of the previous one, but to a very favourable global economic environment. In 2017, global growth was 3.7% and the euro area growth was 2.5%, while the price of the oil barrel was still very low. The director of INSEE, whom we auditioned in committee, confirmed that we would not return to 2017 growth in 2018 and that unfortunately the slowdown had already begun. Today we are closer to the next financial crisis than to a sustainable recovery of activity. The ever-increasing differential between the real economy and the financial economy, which announced the subprime crisis in 2008, is an indicator that makes us fear the worst for months or years to come. For there is reason to be afraid, given the importance of the planks that have been carried out, if, despite the €5.5 billion in additional revenue, revenues are ultimately lower than expected as a result of the slowdown in growth. We are already seeing a slowdown in consumption in 2017: it is rising from 2.1% in 2016 to just 1%. And the slowdown will continue in 2018: according to INSEE, household consumption has already declined by 1.9% in January. Unemployment rose again in the first quarter, rising by 0.3%. Confidence in companies is declining, not only in France but throughout the euro area, which certainly reflects the ongoing reversal of the economic situation. But, given government policy, which attacks the purchasing power of the most modest by increasing the CSG, it is reasonable to worry about the effect of this slowdown on popular consumption and growth in 2018, which has already fallen to 0.2% in the first quarter, compared to 0.7% in the previous quarter. Moreover, the government's fiscal policy decided at the end of 2017 will aggravate this situation: it is, to use your expression, Mr.First President, of the water poured into the barrel of the Danaides – I am talking about the billions and billions of euros given to the richest shareholders, who generally serve only for speculation, and not, unfortunately, to revive the purchasing power of all. We propose another way to deal with the large number of those who, on the benches of this House, are defending a policy of always deleterious supply, which is of great concern to us. I fear that the settlement law will aggravate the situation and have a devastating effect, if the economic situation deteriorates in the coming months, in terms of the economic activity and the firepower of public spending that is likely to be extinguished, even though it has averted the recession in the previous period, when the private market was sluggish. This Spring of evaluation announces, I fear, a rigorous winter and proves, once again, the need to radically change politics and redistribute this "crazy money", to use the famous expression of a noctamble, which finance costs us, to all those who produce wealth in this country and whose purchasing power would be of great use to revive the economy in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u36	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u37	Mr President, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Migaud and all the Court of Auditors services for this presentation. That we can now speak and discuss the various elements of this report is rather positive. In fact, in order to benefit from as complete a view of the country as possible and to rebalance the Court of Auditors' appearance in our work, we could apply the same method to other publications, inviting the heads of the public bodies concerned. Why, ladies and gentlemen, should we not invite, for example, INSEE, which has just published a very interesting and particularly well-provided report on household income and wealth covering the years 1998 to 2015? Beyond the accounting and budgetary situation in our country, we must be fully informed of the social situation in France. The two subjects are intertwined, since fiscal and fiscal policies, which we decide in this House, have very concrete consequences for the evolution of inequalities. I will give you two examples as an illustration: by setting up the single flat-rate levy of 30% on capital income, as the majority did in the context of the 2018 budget, it is very likely that this measure, of 2 billion euros a minima, will benefit almost exclusively the most affluent, thus increasing income inequality in our country; With regard to tax aid for rental investment, since the 1990s, our country has been increasing tax exemption schemes to increase the private rental sector and to support construction activity. The "Périssol", the "Besson", the "Robien", the "Scellier", the "Duflot" and finally the "Pinel" succeeded each other. Communist parliamentarians have repeatedly opposed these arrangements and have fought to shed light on these "tax expenditures", to use the financial language that should be used today with regard to these exemptions. At the beginning of the year, the Court of Auditors carried out a survey on the tax expenditure made between 2009 and 2016 in favour of household rental investment. The findings of this investigation must alert us and lead us to make the necessary decisions. According to the Court of Auditors, these tax expenditures are particularly costly in terms of their efficiency, not to mention their speculative effect on real estate prices. They cost EUR 1.7 billion in 2015, but it is essential to go beyond this annual cost and take into account their generational cost. The note is then particularly salty! For the "Scellier", it is 3,9 billion euros, for the "Pinel", the bagatelle of 7,4 billion euros! We are here, you will agree, in a completely different order of magnitude, especially since, if we stop for a moment at the beneficiaries of these tax rebates, we find very quickly that they are simply households with high or even very high incomes. Nearly a quarter of the beneficiary households belong to the tax bracket between 71000 euros and 151000 euros, when they account for only 2.3% of the taxed households. We therefore have particularly costly arrangements that benefit, for the most part, the most affluent people in our country, by adding a little more to the inequalities within our population. Are these schemes, at the very least, effective in terms of building rental housing and supporting construction activity? The doubt is more than justifiable. While the Court of Auditors, like us, regrets that there are so few economic surveys on this subject, it recognizes that private operators – manufacturers, promoters or banks – have integrated the sustainability of this aid into their strategies, and are totally "addicted" to these products. The Court observes that, in comparison with other public expenditure, it was possible to increase the housing stock in our country more sustainably. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation is abnormal. In the wake of the discussions on the ELAN bill, whose mainstay was the weakening of the low-cost housing sector, which the Government and the majority find too expensive, this report must be taken seriously and force us to change our direction. This reflection must also extend to all tax expenditures, and well beyond the housing tax credits alone. Some of us in this chamber are constantly maintaining the mythology of a country that is in a form of dependence on public expenditure. We say again: these statements are inaccurate, because they are based on the assumption that public expenditure represents absolute evil, whereas it is intended to meet the daily needs of our fellow citizens, in terms of mobility, social protection or public support for the economic fabric. These expenses are trying to keep our republican motto alive. Many here will shoot red balls at the increase in public spending in 2017. But why did they grow? Notably because there have been recruitments of teachers in national education. Who can tell me here that he considers these recruitments illegitimate and unjustified, when the needs on our territories are massive in this respect and our demography is positive? A parliamentary report has just found that a child from the Seine-Saint-Denis, from where I am elected, was less well equipped with teachers than any other child elsewhere in the national territory and that there were still stark disparities in the number of teachers. In reality, if our country is "addicted" to something, it is to these tax expenditures, which have blazed in the last fifteen years, and even literally exploded over the last five years. This amounted to EUR 93 billion in 2017. To have an order of magnitude, this represents the equivalent of the national education, security and culture budgets combined! From our point of view, this would require a precise assessment. What are the effects of these tax credits? Who are the beneficiaries, whether they are businesses or individuals? What are the social side effects? A review of these tax credits is necessary, from a real assessment of their effects, in particular in terms of their impact on inequalities, until they are called into question. This is about equality between our fellow citizens. It's about tax justice. It is our budgetary balance. It is also about the effectiveness of our public policies. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, if there is much to say about many points in this report by the Court of Auditors and, more generally, on the budgetary situation in our country, I shall concentrate on three points in particular. First of all, while this is the most unjust tax system socially, affecting the least well-off, VAT accounts for more than 50% of our budget's tax revenues. Tax justice in our country is therefore not on the table. Next, one question: the contribution to the European Union is 2.3 billion euros less than the initial finance law for 2017. Why such under-utilization? Are the procedures too complex for actors – I am thinking of communities and associations – to seize the funds available for social and territorial cohesion? Finally, a formal comment on your report, Mr.First President: thirty-eight pages on revenue and sixty-two pages on public expenditure. Is there not, in your opinion, any margin for rebalancing this report, in order to focus on public revenues? It is, from our point of view, also like this that we make a budget, and, in terms of public revenue, we have proposals to make to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u39	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u40	Mr President, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will not be a further comment on the picture drawn up by the Court of Auditors and my colleagues in the implementation of the 2017 budget, but rather a projection of the present and our future. I would like to concentrate on the ten recommendations made at the end of your report, Mr. First President. Some of them seem to me essential in order to make the complementary work of our two institutions even more useful and effective, and above all not to repeat the mistakes made in previous years, which are ultimately due mainly to a lack of monitoring and evaluation of the budgets we are voting on. That is the whole purpose and meaning of this Spring's evaluation, led by the Members of the Finance Committee. For the first time, dear chairman of the committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to have a rational and meaningful exchange with the ministers on the implementation of their budgets. This real exchange on the effectiveness and meaning of public policies, rather than a battle of figures that eventually became an abstraction of experts, is essential, while every euro spent is real and finances public policies that are just as real. The third recommendation in the report seems quite consistent with the spirit of parliamentary work that we would like to create here. You ask to detail the forecasting methods and process for each of the major taxes, as well as the forecasting model used. We will do so in part from next September, for some of them, and then gradually in full, thanks to the creation of a parliamentary evaluation agency and its encryption unit, supported in particular by my colleagues Jean-Noël Barrot and Jean-François Eliaou, with the help of economists from reference laboratories in public policy evaluation. You also ask to break down the forecast of each tax, depending on the evolution of the taxable base, the impact of the scale, the rate of early recovery and, if possible, the effects of behaviour. It is once again one of the tasks of economic evaluation that we will gradually give to our parliamentary evaluation agency, which will of course be trans-partisan. The fifth and sixth recommendations, which are often redrafted – I would like to stress this point – seem to us to be inescapable. They concern tax expenditure, which was the subject of clear commitments by the Minister for Action and Public Accounts before our committee in the Spring of the evaluation. It is extremely urgent to clarify the objectives of the program's tax expenditures and to justify the most significant costs. A comprehensive assessment of tax expenditures is required during the period of the Public Finance Programming Act. Parliament must, of course, have its full share in this exercise; But this is a key objective that must be quickly addressed by the executive branch. It is indeed the main source of inheritance and responsibility for all the budgetary years, the one that most reveals the recurring mistakes I quoted at the beginning of my speech. With an estimated cost of almost 93 billion in 2017, in exponential acceleration during the previous quinquennium, and continued overruns in fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017, which have only little translated into adjustment measures, it is even an urgent subject of the budget that comes. The legacy is very heavy, and we have seen at departmental public policy evaluation committees how difficult it is sometimes to trace the precise meaning and objectives of public policies that have called for the creation of a tax expenditure in their time. This duty of inventory, Mr.First President, we believe it is necessary to carry it out urgently. Section 20 of the 2018-2022 Public Finance Programming Act has given us a liability mechanism for the future – a four-year limitation for any new tax expenditure – and we can now set an assessment deadline for any new tax expenditure, in order to judge its relevance before proposing its renewal or possible abolition. Let us seize this opportunity to master and restore meaning to expenditure that no longer had. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, and more generally, we need to look together, executive and Parliament, at the necessary infra-annual follow-up of our entire evaluation, at all the standards voted in finance law – you also call it in your report. Parliament's information on this follow-up must be as clear and as transparent as possible. This will be a great deal of work for each spring of the evaluation of the coming years, because voting, evaluating and having the courage to reform is our mission to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u41	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u42	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u43	Mr President, Mr First President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr General Budget Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all, Mr First President, to thank you, too, for the presentation of the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget in 2017, in the Committee on Finance last week and in the sitting today, and to stress the quality of the documents provided to us. As I pointed out at your hearing by the Committee on Finance on 6 June, this report is, without surprise, a continuation of the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors which you presented to us in June 2017. Let's make it clear, this report is on its own. As proof, I want to reiterate the word "under-budgeting" that you find forty-two times in your report, or the word "insincerity" that appears five times. But what are we talking about? This week, we will be discussing the draft regulation which confirms that France has seen its public deficit go back to below 3% of GDP for the first time since 2007. As a reminder, in 2012, the government deficit exceeded EUR 100 billion and reached 5% of GDP. A quinquennium later, this deficit fell below EUR 70 billion and represents 2.6% of GDP. The president of the New Left Group recalled some comparisons. The role of the Court of Auditors is to ensure the proper use of public money. The figures I have just mentioned should therefore have led you to welcome at least the results achieved between 2012 and 2017; You didn't do it and the NG group regrets it. I now want to focus on the issue of sub-budgeting. In its 2012 audit of public finances, the Court of Auditors noted an overstatement of revenue, when the 2017 audit highlighted under-budgeting of expenditure. The stakes and consequences of these two phenomena are not the same. Indeed, while a lack of revenue can hardly be filled in the course of the year, an increase in expenditure can be more easily resolved, in particular through the precautionary reserve. In the case of the 2017 budget, there has indeed been – as usual, unfortunately – an underestimation of certain expenditure. However, the precautionary reserve had been set at a particularly high rate of 8% to finance possible non-earmarked expenditure, even if – I agree with you – the reserve should only fund uncertainties, by definition unforeseeable. Yet the Court of Auditors criticizes the under-budgetings while paradoxically denouncing the rate of appropriations put in reserve, which is too high; I see a contradiction. If the term "sub-budgeting" is regularly reflected in the report, the 2017 budget implementation note of the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities" – RCT – should be read as "over-budgeting". Thus, the initial 2017 finance law would have over-budgeted the credits to support local investment, a significant part of which was cancelled last summer. In fact, this over-budgeting is the result of under-consumption of appropriations, particularly at the initiative of certain prefectures which are slow to sign the grant orders, thus forcing the elected representatives to postpone the launch of their projects, or who argue that all the appropriations have been consumed – I can testify to this. As I recalled during the review of the implementation of the RCT mission's appropriations in the Public Policy Evaluation Committee on 7 June: "I take the bet today before you that the situation will be almost the same next year. At the end of May, in many departments, the grant orders were still not signed, and you know like me some elected ones: they are careful, and they will not start the work without the order. If he comes out only in June, you understand that it is indeed very difficult to consume the credits. The Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, acknowledged at this meeting that we were in this area in the presence of a vicious circle. I would also like to address the issue of tax niches. The Court of Auditors' report has the merit of highlighting the hypocrisy of the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018-2022 in this area. As a reminder, Article 20 of this programming law has capped the amount of tax niches, but this ceiling is – in your own words, Mr.First President – inoperative, because it is 20 billion euros higher than the cost of tax niches in 2017. Thus, in theory, it will allow for a 20% increase in tax expenditures in the years to come. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] Let me remind you that the previous majority has begun the recovery of public finances. Of course, much remains to be done, but given the state in which we found the country in 2012, we can be proud of our action. It is regrettable, however, that the current majority is using budgetary flexibility, which did not exist a few years ago, to pursue a policy of increasing social and territorial inequalities. This is the subject of our motion for a resolution which will be discussed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u44	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u45	[[Smile]] Mr President, Mr First President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, it was with some anxiety that I had to tackle Father's Day this year. Indeed, my little last asked me everything from go to what my beginning of the week would look like in the National Assembly, and when I told him that I was going to intervene on the tax niches, he was seized of a dubitative mouse and, I regret, of a form of indifference or even contempt for exercise, in comparison with the recent prowess of Griezmann and Pogba. This will lead me to use a few football metaphors to illustrate my point and perhaps arouse his interest – and yours above all. Mr First President, the Court of Auditors once again sends a yellow card – or a severe tag – to the state for its steering and inventiveness in terms of fiscal niches, which cost public finances for the 2017 season to over €92 billion, 3 billion more than was envisaged in the initial budget vote for 2017, and 20 billion more than in 2013 due to the increase in the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – CICE. If, as you recall, there are about 450 tax niches on paper, 15 of them account for around EUR 50 billion for the current year. The ranking has been fairly stable in recent years with the CICE, the tax credit research or the 10% reduction on pensions and pensions in the calculation of income tax. Let us be clear, it is not a question of returning all niches to the locker room, because some, for example, tax credits for the employment of employees at home or for childcare expenses, support activity and purchasing power. But this should not prevent Parliament from regularly refitting its crampons to know whether these devices are still effective and efficient. It is also important to remember that the situation will change somewhat over the next few years with the transformation – welcome – of the CICE into a permanent relief of burdens for companies from 1 January 2019, which will also benefit associations and structures working in the social and solidarity economy. However, it should be noted that non-CICE tax expenditures increased steadily in 2017. At the same time, 138 tax expenditures scattered throughout the various tasks of the State budget are considered non-quantifiable; There are 88 niches with a limited cost – less than 10 million euros. I quote the Court: "The concentration of the cost of tax expenditure must not hide the multitude of small schemes whose effectiveness, relevance or impact are not established. This situation clearly deserves a whistle, because some devices are aimed, for a very random benefit, at very few companies or households; So there's not really enough to fill a stadium. The issue of the control of tax expenditure is a long-standing concern of Parliament, as demonstrated, for example, by an information report of June 2008, drawn up by Messrs. Migaud, Carrez and Courson, who, in good foxes of surfaces, have been able to shake certain tax nets. This in-depth work was based on two areas: controlling tax expenditure and improving the fairness and effectiveness of tax systems. The ten-year record, the resulting recommendations remain mostly topical and invite us collectively to humility. The Court's report recalls the practice of tax conferences held as early as 2015 in order to initiate the audit, but in which the ministries have not always played the game fully, have sometimes kicked in touch and have most often turned away the ball. Many devices have remained without prior or subsequent evaluation. Even more disturbing, some assessments that had been legislated have never been published. We can no longer be satisfied with this defensive strategy and, in my view, must seize the ball at the leap of the long cross-section of the Migaud report, by Courson, Carrez, which is well at stake today by the Court of Auditors. This is why section 20 of the 2018-2022 Public Finance Programming Act, passed this fall, provides for the principle of a four-year limitation on the creation or extension of tax niches. It also provides for an evaluation deadline to be set in the approach to the expiry date of the scheme, in order to justify its relevance before any extensions can be taken into account in the legislation. I agree with the Court's recommendation, which calls for an exhaustive assessment of existing niches, because we must act both on the flow and on the stock. Of course, I am aware that this is a long-term work that cannot always be consensual. But we are convinced that Parliament has a leading role to play in this evaluation and that this is part of our necessarily close cooperation with the Court to better control public funds. That is what the Committee on Finance is doing today, and in particular, Amélie de Montchalin, to strengthen the material and human resources of this House, to enable it to fully assess the impact of certain developments in the law, in this case taxation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But we must also be careful not to waste this evaluation effort by stubborn reflexes to create new niches. It seems to me that we will have to be intransigent, Government and parliamentarians, on these mechanisms, which have become essential instruments of certain public policies – for example housing or work – without always proving to be effective. Like low-yield taxes that will be the subject of a resolution by the Republic Group on the move, tax niches must be vigorously challenged. On this subject, as always when it comes to assessing, simplifying and experimenting, I am convinced that Members – especially those of the majority – are ready to wet the jersey.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u46	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u47	Mr President, Mr First President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the Court of Auditors' report is an opportunity for reflection on a key issue: the real budgetary situation in France. I will move on to technical-type recommendations on how to submit budget documents, to get to the core. The 2017 balance has 67.7 billion deficits: slight reduction compared to the previous year, but still a heavy deficit. Haemorrhage that is reduced, but that continues, does not in any way alter the patient's state of health. Moreover, this reduction is insufficient, and by far so that the relative weight of debt in GDP is simply stabilized. We are still in high water, with the deficit accounting for more than one fifth of the net expenditure in the general budget. However, two favourable cyclical factors must be integrated: firstly, an unexpected upsurge in growth of 2.2%, and the frontier level of macroeconomic development, which allows for structural improvement in a fiscal and social situation; Second, an average level of still moderate rates that reduces the weight of mobile refunds. Unfortunately, there is no indication that these cyclical factors will continue on a sustainable basis, and the potentially devastating effects of higher rates will be known in the long run. Thus, as a result of so many years of slippage, the net financial debt reached 1686 billion and the burden, almost 42 billion. Gross public debt, taken in the sense of Maastricht, is close to 100% of GDP, at nearly 2300 billion. It accounted for 12% in 1974, before oil shocks spread their ravages, and 66% of the same GDP ten years ago. We are far from the commitment to reduce this ratio to 96% of GDP this year. First of all, we will stress the difficulty of this situation: the need to meet the commitments entered into and programmed, the scale of social needs, the need for continued public investment and other imperatives contribute to reducing room for manoeuvre. There is, however, a need for action. We cannot let things drift again: it is unpleasant, if not unhealthy, that the public deficit constitutes a commercial fund for financiers of all kinds and origins. The financial function plays a major role in the development of economic life. Nevertheless, speculation, which is always present, consists in artificially increasing individual profits to the detriment of public creation of wealth and employment. In passing, the Agence France Trésor must issue 500 million bonds every day, the need for state financing having stood at 185.4 billion euros in 2017. No comment. The solution cannot lie in an overall increase in the tax burden, since the rate of compulsory levies already represents 45 % of the gross domestic product, even if we must do the part of escape, and recall the harmful role of tax havens. The effort is indispensable, it must be shared equitably. Some revenues, some parachutes, seem outrageous to us. We greatly appreciate the freedom to undertake and prosper honestly, but we would like to point out in passing that there is no need for tens of thousands of euros daily to live. The solution to imbalances, on the other hand, can be placed in a better rationalisation of budgetary choices. We remain dubious when we read that operating expenditures are up 4.7 per cent, even though investment expenditures are down 7.1 per cent from the forecast of the Finance Act. Similarly, when we read that the mission "Sustainable Development" has experienced a decrease – the largest – of 2.9% compared to the finance law, we believe that the choice is wrong. The annual energy trade deficit is huge – more than €40 billion for fossil fuels. Investment in renewable energy is a priority area as it prepares an inevitable future, and in the medium term it ensures a return on investment, and therefore positive effects on employment and public budgets, which are in great need of it. I would like to recall the first President of the Court of Auditors' reflection before our Finance Committee last June: "Improving public action does not necessarily involve additional appropriations. It is often a matter of organization and distribution of resources." In any event, we cannot continue to build the world of tomorrow on debt. Real structural reforms should be initiated or pursued. They are objectively difficult, but indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u48	The debate on the Court of Auditors' report on the State budget is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u49	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u50	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u51	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mr Jean-Paul Mattei's motion for a resolution for a more proportionate and relevant use of the discount applicable to transfers of property and immovable property in the private domain of the State (No 1039).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u52	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u53	Mr President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, originally the so-called discount scheme, introduced by the Duflot Act of 18 January 2013, aimed at equipping the public authorities with a new instrument that would enable them to respond to the housing crisis that our country has been going through for too many years. This instrument enabled the State to dispose of land in its private domain at a price lower than its market value, or even free of charge, in order to enable "the implementation of programmes consisting essentially of housing, at least part of which is carried out in social housing". Article L. 3211-7 of the General Code of Ownership of Public Persons lays down the assumptions and conditions under which the benefit of this mechanism is entitled. The scope of the scheme has recently been extended in order to speed up the pace of transfers of public land, in particular through the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development, known as the ELAN Act. Article 6 of this text provides, on the one hand, for an extension of the discount for social ownership transactions and, on the other hand, for a condition of the discount of land on the delivery of housing within five years for land of less than five hectares. These improvements are welcome. According to the Government's initial forecasts, the discount would allow the construction of 110,000 housing units between 2012 and 2016, as well as the disposal of 224 sites owned by the State or its operators. However, whether they come from the competent committees of the Parliament or the Court of Auditors, all the evaluation work leads to the question of the real impact, if not the raison d'être, of the mechanism in terms of the efficiency of the conduct of operations falling within its scope and the cost to public finances, compared with the number of social housing units built. This year, as rapporteur of the "State Real Estate" trust account, I devoted my work of monitoring, in the context of the "Spring of the Evaluation", to the analysis of the impact of the Duflot discount on the disposals of State property in relation to the rate of housing built. The first criticism relates to the cumbersomeness and complexity of this device. The regional prefectures are required to take a decision on the basis of a final programme, following the inclusion of the eligible land on a regional list. The purchaser has no discretion to modify the housing program after filing the acquisition file, as it serves as a reference to the calculation of the discount.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u54	However, these regional lists provided for in Article L. 3211-7 of the General Code of Ownership of Public Persons constitute an unnecessary mechanism and which, in practice, has a negative impact on the State. In fact, any land of the State offered for sale is likely to be sold with a discount, whether or not it is on a regional list. Thus, the State sold with discount nine plots that were not on a regional list. In addition, today, listing on a regional list limits sales opportunities for other purposes, incurs custodial fees and poses a risk of deterioration of value in the absence of a purchaser. The calculation of the discount can give rise to harsh discussions, with some of the people I have heard talking about criteria and a fairly abstract rate grid. As the Court of Auditors points out, these procedural burdens have been able to promote the emergence of projects outside the haircut mechanism, which has not yet been used. The second criticism calls into question the very appropriateness of the choice of the State to give a discount in the context of operations conducted by certain local authorities. In fact, this mechanism can result in an exorbitant grant to communities with own land reserves. That is why I proposed in the discussion of Bill ELAN amendments aimed at improving this mechanism by limiting its speculative perverse effects, particularly for public authorities and institutions with land reserves – it was proposed to limit the use of the discount to the average cost per square metre of housing construction in the sector concerned. As the Court of Auditors' reference shows, this finding applies to the whole territory, but may be particularly acute in tense areas and, first and foremost, in Paris. According to several parliamentary reports, notably from my predecessor Jean-Louis Dumont, the State has spent almost 37.3 million euros on 386 housing units in three social housing projects undertaken since 2013 by the city of Paris. While the efforts made by the Paris community should not be disregarded, in particular through the exercise of the right of pre-emption, which may be more costly, the use of the discount nevertheless results in an expenditure of around 100,000 euros per social housing in the operations carried out on its territory. As a reminder, the cost of the scheme in the rest of the national territory is limited to 16,000 euros. The haircut undoubtedly entails the risk of significant losses to public finances and, in certain circumstances, could be equated with State financing of local government housing policy, with new aid for stone. Is this subsidy achieving its results, i.e. creating a supply shock with the production of 110,000 housing units and 234 disposals in four years? Unfortunately, the latest figures available for built-up housing and disposals are well below the original targets. As of February 2018, there were 7798 housing units built or planned, including 5868 social housing units, and 85 disposals had been carried out, with an overall discount rate of 58% corresponding to an estimated lower income of just under EUR 130.81 million. These figures are higher than the information provided in response to the budget questionnaires, which, as at 1 August 2017, reported the completion of 6,800 housing units, including 5,000 social housing units, with losses on the special-purpose account of around €115 million and a discount rate of between 12% and 100%. Of course, the discount could have enabled projects to be carried out which could not have been successful without the transfer of State buildings or land at a price lower than their market value. However, the analyses often show a very costly and sometimes disproportionate mobilization of resources in terms of the number of social housing units carried out. According to the words of the Minister for Public Action and Public Accounts before the Finance Committee, the discount puts the state services before an adversarial injunction, between valuing the public heritage and contributing to the national effort in favour of housing. Apart from the balance of the trust account, the size of the discounts granted is of particular importance for certain ministries, such as that of the armed forces, since the proceeds of the transfers are intended to finance their equipment. In these circumstances, it is essential to review the conditions for the use of the discount and the way in which its rate is calculated. Under the ELAN Bill, the Government has proposed a number of reliefs or simplifications. The purpose of this resolution is to support this approach by inviting the latter to take steps to ensure a more proportionate and relevant use of the discount applicable to the disposal of property and immovable property in the private domain of the State. Beyond the correction of the perverse effects of certain devices such as discounting, it is important to improve the management of the State's real estate assets by developing other tools of valorisation: emhyteotic leases or land. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to adopt this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u55	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u56	During this week of scrutiny, many groups have preferred the consideration of resolutions, which have the advantage of being more concrete and giving rise to a vote – in my view, something is missing from a Parliament that does not vote. The resolutions deal with a wide range of issues, as our mission requires us to take a panoramic look at public spending. The mechanism of the haircut, which Jean-Paul Mattei analysed, did not demonstrate its relevance. It was intended to build 110,000 housing units between 2012 and 2016, but only 6000 to 8000 were built – far from the targets set. In addition, it is expensive: 130 million euros. The Court of Auditors had already pointed out the ineffectiveness of this famous discount. The resolution proposes to frame the discount – it is necessary to maintain the possibility of lowering the price of a good in particular circumstances. Today, procedures, which are cumbersome and costly, have not found their place in public policies. The resolution has obviously not been voted on in committee, but I am very much in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u57	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u58	I would like to commend the excellent work of Jean-Paul Mattei, who has analysed in detail and in depth the mechanism of the discount applicable to the disposal of property and real estate in the private domain of the state. This mechanism, created by the Duflot law, did not have the desired effect – the rapporteur and the president recalled, figures in support – and did not allow the announced offer shock. The observation is clear and shared: this mechanism has led to "a mobilization of very expensive and sometimes disproportionate means in view of the number of social housings realized" – it is a euphemism. Its particular feature is to introduce a form of paradoxical injunction in relation to the policies pursued between, on the one hand, the development of the public heritage and, on the other hand, the contribution to the national effort in favour of housing. In the Committee on Public Policy Evaluation, the Minister has already indicated that he shares the findings of the Special Rapporteur and the Court of Auditors. Therefore, it seems logical to adopt this motion for a resolution, which aims to ensure a more proportionate and relevant use of the haircut mechanism, by proposing a revision of the regulatory framework setting out the criteria for calculation and the capping rules and by establishing ex post financial control of the transactions which led to the disposal of the State's immovable property. These recommendations are intended to address the fragility of revenue financing the State's real estate policy and to safeguard the financial balance of the trust account "Management of the State's real estate assets". We can only subscribe to this ambition. This is a first particularly relevant illustration of the usefulness of the evaluation procedure launched this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u59	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Noël Barrot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u60	In my turn, I welcome the evaluation exercise that we have carried out and which we are drawing the conclusions of today by discussing motions for resolutions. In this case, the motion for a resolution presented to us by the MODEM Group, at the initiative of Jean-Paul Mattei, proposes to draw the conclusions of the evaluation of the scheme created in 2013 by the Duflot Act, which allows the government to divest land in its private domain at a lower price than its market value in order to enable "the implementation of programmes consisting essentially of housing of which at least part is carried out in social housing". If it were to offer the Government a new instrument to respond to the housing crisis that our country has been experiencing for many years, it can only continue if the expected effects are visible and verifiable, especially in the light of the public resources invested. From this point of view, it is possible to question the effectiveness of this measure. On the one hand, it did not have the expected incentive effect on housing production. On the other hand, it reveals significant disparities in public policies in the territory. Finally, it sometimes runs counter to other public policy objectives in the area of valuing the state's heritage. The discount was to allow the construction of 110,000 dwellings between 2012 and 2016, as well as the sale of 224 sites owned by the State or its operators. However, as the Court of Auditors pointed out, this ambitious objective required from the outset the doubling of the rate of start-ups observed in the period 2008-2011. The latest figures available for built housing and disposals are well below the original targets. In February 2018, there were only 8,000 housing units built or planned, including 6,000 social housing units, and the construction of 85 sites. The Court of Auditors shows that most of the financial effort made in the context of the discount has been in the most tense areas, particularly in Île-de-France. This mechanism may result in an exorbitant subsidy for the construction of social housing in some communities. The State spent almost 37.3 million euros on 386 housing units in Paris, or 100,000 euros per social housing unit. As a reminder, the cost of applying the scheme in the rest of the territory is limited to 16,000 euros. Moreover, the loss of revenue is in contradiction with the objective of valuing the public heritage, particularly in certain ministries, such as that of the armies, for which the proceeds of the divestitures are intended to finance the equipment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Because the mechanism of the discount has not achieved its objective in terms of the production of housing, especially social housing, because it reveals very significant disparities in public expenditure among the territories and because it conflicts with other public policies, this high-cost mechanism needs to be evaluated and reviewed. That is the objective pursued by this motion for a resolution which I invite you to vote with the members of the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u61	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u62	I join previous speakers in welcoming the work of our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei, who, with this motion for a resolution, again questions the relevance of a mechanism at the crossroads of financial, social, cultural and even historical issues. The French State's real estate policy has been referred to many times over the past 20 years, and many reports have highlighted the importance of making progress both in the estimation of assets and in their management and in the monitoring of cases. It must be said that the stake is great: the state would be, it is said – we are not very sure – the owner of about 75 million square meters; In its accounts, its real estate assets are estimated at around 60 billion euros. If one divides the surface by the value, one obtains around 800 euros per square metre, which is not grandiose. In this heritage, there are many barracks. What's a barracks worth? Sometimes the cost of its demolition, if you want to use the land for something else. In this regard, it should be recalled that the valuation of the State's assets is only meaningful if it is studied in the context of an overall strategy – which the Finance Committee has been asking for for years – which includes both the methods of maintenance, so as not to degrade the real estate assets, as well as sales or estimation policies, which involve a careful census of the land stock and its technical characteristics. [[Smile]] I'll tell you about an episode I've just lived in my constituency. The Ministry of Defence decided to sell an ammunition depot there. He managed to find an interested industrialist, who made fireworks – as you know, nobody wants to produce fireworks in the city anymore, because it's far too dangerous. Everything went very well: the buyer was happy like everything else; We negotiated the price... But I give it to you in a thousand : he had been the owner for only a few months when the Ministry of Defence approached him to ask him to rent alveoles in order to store a certain number of ammunition. It's wonderful, though! And this is not over: it was not possible, because to do so, the prefect had to obtain an authorization from the minister of armies, while the destination of the good remained unchanged. I went to meet Mrs. Florence Parly, who promised to look into the file. Because there are two people in her: the one who exercises guardianship and the one whose services ask to be able to store the ammunition in this depot. I am quoting this example, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Special Rapporteur, to show that there is a real problem in the management of state real estate. It is true that the State is not a common owner or tenant: it must incorporate other objectives in the management of its real estate assets than the only point of view of its optimization. [[Smile]] You have taken an interest, Mr Special Rapporteur, in the law of 18 January 2013, in particular in the possibility of applying this famous discount in favour of social housing. You began by noting that, of course, stories had been told in Parliament at the time of the vote on this provision. You recalled the figures: the objective was to build 110,000 housing units; After almost five years, about 6,800 were built, or 6% or 7% of what was planned. What do you conclude, ladies and gentlemen, if you are free spirits? You think we failed, don't you? In addition, our distinguished colleague put his nose in the files and discovered the three most beautiful of them, which concern Paris. Of course, he rode them in pins, but he was not wrong. In these three cases, the discount represented 100,000 euros per built-up social housing, while an average of 16,000 euros per built-up social housing in France was spent. So it cost six times more! Do you not think that, from the point of view of the general interest, it would have been preferable to sell these goods, to cash the sum and to increase the appropriations of the Ministry of Housing with due competition? This would have made it possible to house six times more people, even seven to eight times more, because 16000 euros is the French average, and the sum drops immediately if we withdraw Île-de-France – I have a lot of respect for our colleagues in France, but France, at least 80% of it, is not Île-de-France. When managing public money, we must, at some point, try to optimize, as we said in the debate on the report on the settlement law. So, first of all, we achieved 7% of the target after five years, which is still not a great success, as you yourself noted in your report, Mr Special Rapporteur. Secondly, from the point of view of value for money in the State, goods that could have been better used with a better distribution of housing were wasted. Because I do not see why the product of the sale of a property in Paris could not be used in Marseille, Clermont-Ferrand, Seine-Saint-Denis, Val-de-Marne or Nord-Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u63	Or in the Aisne!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u64	Our nation is one! At present, the system is such that the proceeds from the sale of the property are reallocated to transactions carried out at or near the place of sale. Is that right? Is this in line with the principle of optimisation of public resources, which are rare? This seems to me to be totally contrary to this principle. It's even the mark of a Middle Ages Republic! The Special Rapporteur has not dared to go so far as to say. Yet, as a worthy descendant of Henry IV, he could have recalled that never would his elder have let that happen! He would have thought it necessary to put an end to such feudalities! By means of this system, feudalism is maintained. [[Smile]] That is why I find our young colleague too moderate in his conclusions. In essence, he felt that the system was not working and that public money was being wasted. His idea is therefore to improve it a little by guiding it, but we do not know very well how. In fact, between us, it is not a matter of legislative power, but of regulatory power. So do you want to trust successive governments, Mr. Special Rapporteur? You're young in the business, but you've been mayor for a long time, so you've seen others...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u65	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u66	I don't think that's reasonable. I ask a simple question: should not the conclusion of the Mattei report simply be that the device should be removed? And, as our young colleague Jean-Noël Barrot mentioned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u67	Who's younger, he...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u68	... provide for a mechanism similar to that in the field of defence? When the Ministry of Defence sells its property, it has a right of return, not to reinvest on the spot, but to finance the modernization of a particular barracks. This motivates him to optimize, to sell what he does not need. Why should we not do the same with regard to housing? The proceeds from the disposal of assets that are not required would be re-established through competition funds within housing credits, in order to finance and improve housing policy. That, in my view, would be the right conclusion. We must put an end to the present system, which I find very perverse and contrary to the principle of the equality of citizens with regard to the proceeds of the sale of the public heritage: this money belongs not to any part of the territory, but to all the French. This will make housing policy more effective. I do not know whether our young colleague and the others would agree to amend the motion for a resolution...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u69	We cannot amend a motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u70	... in order to go to the bottom of things, by asking for the establishment of a system of the kind that exists in the field of defence, which Jean-Noël Barrot referred to, namely a restoration of the proceeds of the transfer by means of competition funds to allocate it, not to an operation in the same place, but to a national policy as a whole. Otherwise, the use of public resources will remain sub-optimal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u71	I remind you, Mr de Courson, that it is not possible to amend the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u72	We can therefore vote only for or against...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u73	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u74	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the previous Socialist majority, had noted that the high cost of land was obviously an important obstacle to the production of housing, particularly social housing. Jean-Marc Ayrault's government had therefore introduced a bill to facilitate the mobilization of public land for housing. The scheme had had a difficult beginning, as it was often considered too complex, but two amendments, one legislative and the other regulatory, improved its effectiveness. The decree of 25 August 2016 first opened up the possibility, in communes lacking in social housing, of divestitures for the benefit of HLM organisations, mixed-economy companies – SEM – and social works management bodies using the OTC procedure, without competition, in respect of the alienation of buildings included in the carrying out of an operation comprising more than 70% of the total floor area allocated to social housing. This provision was in line with the fact that the scheme was considered too long. The same decree also extended the haircut regime to include public equipment. In 2017, the Equality and Citizenship Act again amended the scheme. Its article 116 has generalized the discount by making it applicable to the divestitures of the Société de valorisation immobilier et immobilier – SOVAFIM. Article 151 of the Act extended the possibility of amicable transfers to programmes with more than 50 per cent of social housing. These developments have led to a significant development, year after year, of the haircut procedure. For example, discount sales accounted for 38% of the State's land disposals in 2014, 54% in 2015 and 72% in 2016. In the first few months of 2017, this proportion even reached 75%, which confirms the trend. The motion for a resolution before us today highlights several criticisms made by the Court of Auditors in its October 2017 report and recommends changes accordingly. First of all, we wish to weigh some of these criticisms. The Court noted that the discount sale involved only sixty-nine transactions between 2013 and 2016, for a total of 6,700 housing units produced, including 4,600 social housing units, and expressed concern about shortness of breath, once the most suitable land for such projects would be transferred. However, in his reply to the reference, the Prime Minister recalled that the transfer of state land in favour of housing had increased during this period, from fifty-one in 2013 to one hundred and six in 2016, while, at the same time, as I have just mentioned, the share of divestitures with discount had increased. It is also important to clarify the nature of the projects, which suggests that this tool allows for a precise response to the needs of the territories. Thus, according to the report published in February 2017 by the National Commission for Planning, Planning and Land Use, 80% of the housing potential resulting from the divestitures and commitments signed in 2016 is part of an area of tension for housing. The programming of these divestitures is also adapted to the context: 45 per cent of social housing is provided for in the municipalities in compliance with their social housing obligations, compared with over 65 per cent in the communes in deficit. Programming is also at the service of the social mix, dear to our group: twelve transfers were carried out in communes carencaded under article 55 of the law on urban solidarity and renewal – this is the case in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, Fréjus or Montauban – and allowed the programming of more than 1000 housing units. In addition, 35 divestitures were carried out in municipalities that were catching up under the SRU Act and enabled the programming of nearly 3,000 housing units, including 2,000 social housing units. The new majority wanted to continue the simplification of the discount scheme through section 6 of the bill on housing, development and digital development, which we have just completed at first reading. This article provides, in particular, that the haircut procedure will apply to land for the implementation of programmes with "majority", rather than "primarily", housing. The main idea is, of course, to strengthen the functional mix. The regulatory threshold of 75% of the floor area dedicated to housing can thus be reduced to 50%. Article 6 also aims to extend the benefit of the discount, which is currently limited to the part of the programme providing social housing, to housing which is the subject of a real joint lease contract, with a haircut rate capped at 50%. Finally, it will allow for the bulk disposal of land in the context of the partnership development projects provided for in the draft law in order to accompany the mechanism envisaged by the Government. However, Bill ELAN does not address the issues put forward by the drafter of this resolution. This is all the more damaging since these issues were raised both by the Court of Auditors and by the rapporteur for the ELAN bill in his report. Our group shares the rapporteur's analysis. In its reference dated 26 October 2017, the Court of Auditors pointed out that, in territories where the cost of land was particularly high, the amount of the discount granted to certain projects had had the effect of making the latter bear the bulk of the financial effort of the operation, without the buyer or lessor being called upon to raise own funds – or it mobilised very little. For example, the production of 284 social housing units in rue de Mouzaïa in Paris mobilized 0% of own funds for the acquisition of the land, for a discount estimated at €67600 per dwelling. Another even more striking example: the so-called transfer of the rue de Lille, in the seventh arrondissement of Paris, led to the transformation of the former offices of the Institut national des langues et des civilisations orientales into eighteen dwellings. The amount of direct and indirect subsidies, including the discount scheme, amounted to more than EUR 6.9 million, i.e. public aid in excess of EUR 386000 per dwelling or EUR 5560 per square metre of useful housing area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u75	Isn't that beautiful?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u76	This cost is higher than that of the new construction of social housing in Paris. With the same amount of subsidies, almost double the amount of new social housing that could have been built in Île-de-France. Our group had advocated, during the consideration of the ELAN bill, an amendment aimed at capping the cost of the discount, so that it would not exceed the cost of building new social housing, to avoid these extreme cases and to ensure a minimum level of capital mobilization by donors or purchasers. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected by the majority, although it clearly corresponds to the analyses of the Court of Auditors, the rapporteur of the ELAN bill and the author of this resolution. Let us beware that our colleagues in this chamber will be able to seize this matter. Of course, the case of the city of Paris where land, in some neighbourhoods lacking social housing, may exceed 12,000 euros per square metre, is special. However, it shows the difficulty of defining a balance between the preservation of the State's economic interests and the effort to produce social housing, including in the most tense territories. The contradictory injunctions to which public administrations are subject were highlighted during the hearings on the ELAN bill. On the one hand, Bercy's services ask the administrations to optimise land valuation; On the other hand, the Ministry of Housing is seeking to promote the system of discounting to enable the production of housing. It would be desirable for the Government to issue a clear instruction to the administrations that would enable the system to be given full power without bracing the State's heritage. This problem also arises for State operators, some of whom, such as SNCF Réseau, have considerable assets. At a time when the Government is negotiating the resumption of SNCF's debt, the question of the destination and valuation of the company's assets not devolved to its core business could be raised within the framework of the discount scheme. We also note that a difficulty in the attractiveness of the haircut for sellers is the lack of effective control of the post-project balance. The Court of Auditors has also stressed this. It is regrettable that the ELAN bill did not make any proposals in this regard. The implementation of a readable return clause for actors makes it possible to secure the seller, while giving the buyer a margin of manoeuvre to change his programme. We agree with recommendation 4 of the motion for a resolution, but regret again that such a proposal was not put forward, just two weeks ago, within the vector of the ELAN bill. Finally, the proposal contained in the text to better take into account "the land reserves available to local authorities or public institutions, as well as the average cost of building social housing in a given urban area" seems to us orthogonal to the analysis of its author. In fact, it seems to us to bring additional complexity and burden, but we are trying to free up the haircut. Taking land reserves into account in a gross manner does not allow account to be taken of their location or of the social and functional mixes of the neighbourhoods in which these reserves are located. By contrast, doing so causes a heaviness for the device. Thus, our group largely endorses the analysis on which the motion for a resolution is based and some of the proposals made therein. He contributed to the debate during the review of the ELAN bill. We regret, however, that such a resolution, from a group of the majority, is made only 15 days after the bill is considered. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] The New Left Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u77	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution can be seen as a complement to the ELAN law. It goes back to part of the Duflot Act, according to which, when the State disposes of property in its private domain, the latter may benefit from a 100 per cent discount provided that the public or authorized body to which they are transferred carries out 75 per cent of social housing. We are assured that, as this system has worked very badly, it is time to reform it. We could start by questioning the reasons for this failure. It should be noted that, in some cities, the scheme has nevertheless allowed for some beautiful achievements, such as the Fort de l'Est in the territory of Plaine commune. It should also be noted that, unfortunately, some operators, such as SNCF, have not really played the game of this law. When Charles de Courson, after having deplored the low degree of profitability of the law – 6% –, exclaims: What have we removed?, I wonder about the decision he will soon take on the CICE, whose performance, in terms of profitability and job creation, is still inferior! Instead of wondering why this law has worked less well than was intended, even if it has played an important role – in particular because, in many of the municipalities concerned, the question is less that of construction than accessible land, and that the Duflot law gave the peripheral municipalities of the Parisian metropolis a power over land that allowed them to escape the gentrification imposed by the market – instead, I say, to question the dysfunctions of this law and to seek to improve it, it is deteriorated. How? Based on the logic of the ELAN law, which Jean-Paul Mattei cannot be held to. The ELAN Act aims to reduce the share of social housing from 75 per cent to 50 per cent in the case of divestiture. From there, we can question each other. If the share of social housing falls to 50 per cent, why would the state do a bad job at a time when the share of normal commercial centres and private buildings is growing? The logic is unstoppable! The problem is that this reform will have another effect: it will cost even more to social donors, public industrial and commercial institutions – EPIC – or others, which will further reduce the cost of social housing. This is the deleterious effect of the resolution. As a result, it confirms the provisions of the ELAN law, which I consider to be a global attack on social housing. The method is always the same. The situation of the social donors is deteriorating, either by requiring them to contribute 1.5 billion to the reduction of the individualised aid to housing – APL – decided by the State, or by facilitating the reduction of the discount, which, following Mr Mattei's reasoning, makes it more costly for the donors. And we let them manage with the market to continue to build, as much as possible, social housing. The ELAN Act thus requires them to sell social housing in blocks, including in cities that do not comply with the SRU law or in towns and cities, which will inevitably reduce the construction of social housing in our country, knowing that the state budget for social housing has been divided by six since 1999 and that an increase does not appear to be on the agenda. All of this goes in the same direction. We're weakening the lenders. Secondly, we are creating mechanisms that will encourage our country to constantly reduce the production of social housing and to comply less and less with the SRU law. If we consider that so far the block sale of social housing concerned some 8,000 housing units a year, when the ELAN law sets the target of 40,000, we measure the deficit that this text will create. It is also observed that when proposing to transform offices into housing, this is done once again by allowing the possibility to derogate from the requirement of social mix, in particular the provisions of the SRU Act. We will not vote on the resolution, nor have we voted on the ELAN law. We therefore remain consistent with ourselves. The resolution complements this law, since it tends to weaken social donors, social housing and the control that the municipalities had of part of the land. As such, it causes an earthquake. On the contrary, we believe that we should build 1 million social housing units in five years, regulate rents and strengthen the SRU law. In short, we believe that the opposite of what the text voted on a few days ago by the Assembly at first reading should be strictly done, and therefore the opposite of what is provided for in this draft resolution, which is intended to supplement it, and that, for that reason, we will refrain from voting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u79	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u80	Mr. Coquerel said this before me: whether or not it is a coincidence of the timetable, the motion for a resolution tends to prolong the ELAN law discussed in this House a few days ago. I have some doubts about this text. Let us recall the reasons behind the 2013 law on the mobilization of public land for housing. The first was to produce housing, with our country facing a crisis, including affordable housing, particularly in tense areas. The second was to ensure social diversity. The legislator had these two concerns in mind: to produce housing and to increase social mix. In concrete terms, the second requires, on the one hand, more assisted housing and HLM housing where there is not enough – if not at all – and, on the other hand, an attempt is made to build diversified housing where there are already many. To do this, we cannot leave the land sector, starting with state land ownership, without regulation. The law also aimed to ensure that the State owns the land retention. There was no question of fluid land. No real divestment policy had been conceived or intended. Buildings, barracks, hangars or SNCF plants were allowed to rot on their feet. Which says social mix says haircut, and this one has to be framed. The logic is that the more tense you are in a tense area, that is, the less neighbourhoods or cities have social housing, the more expensive the land is. In order to make social housing at moderate rent, the discount must be proportional. It can therefore be very important in neighbourhoods in tense areas with little HLM. Hence the Paris examples, doubtless questionable, but which follow a market logic. To understand why the system did not work as well as it had been desired, it must be observed precisely in time. When the law was passed in 2013, the central governments or public enterprises concerned quickly put it at the bottom of a drawer in front of which they pulled a Norman cabinet, so as not to discuss land transfers. And between the prefects, who were ordered to facilitate the divestitures, and the central administrations, who were doing everything to avoid them, we found ourselves – sometimes for "good reasons", due to the financial valuation of the assets – faced conflicting injunctions. This set of roles, with insoluble contradictions, between the prefects and the central administrations, explains the slowness of a number of divestitures and led to the birth of the National Commission for Planning, Town Planning and Land (CNAUF), whose president was responsible for arbitrating the relations between the central administrations and the prefects in order to complete the divestitures of these state land. This has produced results. In 2015, if I believe Thierry Repentin's report at the beginning of 2016, seventy divestitures of land took place, while the target was only sixty. Until then, the prefects tried to dislodge between conflicting injunctions, whereas they had little authority over central governments. Thanks to the work of the presidency of the CNAUF and the interdepartmental delegate to social mix in the habitat, there was finally a pilot on the plane, able to arbitrate these oppositions. It is this assessment that must be made in order to encourage the policy pursued, if one wants to do so – it is another subject. Like Charles de Courson, let me quote a few examples. A gendarmerie barracks was delivered in 1998 and then abandoned in 2005 when the areas of competence were divided between police and gendarmerie. It has remained empty for seven years, rotting on its feet, because the state does not know how to manage its assets. It took three years to negotiate the transfer, with a discount, of this barracks to accommodate women victims of violence. Where were they housed before? In hotels paid by the state at gold prices to sleep merchants. If we want to take stock, let's do it objectively! Today, the state's heritage has been valued, its social mission is better fulfilled and sleep merchants are no longer fed. Éric Coquerel spoke of the fort of the East, located at the edge of the "4,000" of La Courneuve and the Francs-Moisins, two emblematic districts of the city's politics. We wanted to make social homeownership, but there was no market. Who can set the land value of a property in a place where the market does not exist? A series of solutions were proposed for three years, all of which were rejected before a solution was found. I could also cite the example of SNCF cathedrals in La Plaine-Saint-Denis, empty and inactive for twenty-five years, rotting on the ground, which regularly house wild camps or other types of occupation harmful to the environment, and for which no solution has yet been found. I now come to my disagreement with your motion for a resolution. Some of the long-standing challenges had begun to be resolved through the establishment of the CNAUF and an interdepartmental delegate on social mix in housing. Since July 2017, this commission has no more president. In addition, there are no more interdepartmental delegates. These authorities, which were able to unblock certain situations and ensure the enforcement of the law, have not been renewed. Since July 2017, this subject has been pending. I would like to make proposals, as I did with Prefect Duport, when he chaired RFF – Réseau ferré de France. To ensure the transfer of SNCF land, we designed upside-down mountings; We set up an arrangement with the mayor and operators, and then took stock of the operation, which allowed us to set a balanced price of land, guaranteeing social mix and respect for various imperatives. It is possible to set up single purpose MSSs, which has been proposed to the SNCF, for example, so that it can be associated with the development of the land that it has left vacant for 25 years. It is also possible to insert clauses for a return to a better fortune, if there is a doubt about the creation of a homeownership market, as I mentioned with regard to the "4,000" of La Courneuve; This makes it possible to set a low price to create the market and, if it works well, to play these clauses. There are plenty of possible solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] However, the substance of the problem lies in the fact that the ELAN law undermines social housing and is inspired by the conviction that the keys to solving the housing crisis must be entrusted exclusively to the market. In addition, by your resolution, you consider that the land use of the State's heritage must be retained before its social purpose and its usefulness in responding to the housing crisis. You're taking a very bad direction. A very good idea was beginning to be implemented; You're going to break that momentum, which led to first results. That is why we will vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u81	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u82	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Special Rapporteur, Mr Chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a motion for a resolution by Mr Mattei on a five-year-old scheme which contributes to the State's real estate policy – whose special allocation account has existed for some 10 years – but also to social housing policy. This arrangement, known as "duflot divestitures", is defined by the discount applicable to the disposal of real property and assets of the State. It is implemented within the framework of a real estate policy which shows shortcomings, due to the tiring between, on the one hand, financial issues, relating to the management of the park, and, on the other hand, public service objectives, which are sometimes contradictory. In addition, proceeds from divestitures have been allocated to the debt relief of the State. The State's real estate policy is running out, it is a fact, apart from the "duflot divestitures", as evidenced by several factors: the increased involvement of third-party financiers; the lack of regular maintenance of the State's real estate assets, which undermines the quality of the public service supply and creates significant additional maintenance costs; an annual amount derived from sales heavily dependent on some exceptional sales. In addition to this, there is a large stock of transferable assets not yet disposed of: 34% of the goods for sale at the beginning of 2015 were still on the market at the end of 2017. For 2017, real estate sales revenues are significantly lower – they are down 32.1 per cent – and year-to-year declines by almost 40 per cent, as are the number of transferred assets, which are down by almost 24 per cent. Despite the additional revenues associated with government royalties, in 2017, 7% less was spent on maintenance of the park. Significant progress must be made on the divestiture side, on which the sustainability of real estate policy depends. Public divestitures were made thanks to significant haircuts, pursuant to the Act of 18 January 2013. The aim of our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei's motion for a resolution is to establish a regulatory mechanism setting out the methods of calculating and capping the discount, as well as a genuine ex post financial control of the sale of immovable property by the State with a discount. On the one hand, the conclusions of the Court of Auditors' interim report of October 2017 are without appeal: the discount in its current economy leads to an excessive mobilisation of resources in view of the results achieved in the construction of housing, particularly social housing. On the other hand, we are witnessing the creation of a stock of goods to be disposed of, obviously difficult to sell, in fine, costly for public finances. There is therefore a twofold need: to release but also to more strictly control the haircuts, which may seem paradoxical. However, discounting must be facilitated for some goods and, for others, strictly framed. The aim is also to take account of the specific situation in Paris and to draw the appropriate lessons in terms of haircuts. Tensions on the production of social rental housing justified the pastilation of a number of Parisian properties that could be subject to haircuts. At the same time, the city has made high-performance private promotion, selling high-priced goods, which is not without a problem of revenue transfer. This brings us back to the requirement to prioritise priorities and solutions across the park, in a context of renovated governance where real estate management behaves as a real owner, thanks to a refined census of the park. To date, for example, the real estate inventory of the hospital estate is almost non-existent. For these aspects related to the practice of the Duflot haircuts, the motion for a resolution legitimately calls for a revision of the regulatory framework setting the criteria for calculating and capping the haircut, by increasing the consideration of the land reserves available to public persons, as well as the average cost of building social housing in a given urban area. This text could be supplemented by a reminder of the usefulness and relevance of the haircut, provided, of course, that its implementation is better supervised and takes into account the situation of local assets and contexts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is also scope for improvement in terms of discounting measures aimed at better organisation. The aim would be to systematize the transmission of prefectural utility decisions to the ministries concerned and to optimize divestitures, by providing the State owner with an inter-ministerial support structure dedicated to the valuation of assets, modelled on the mission to realize the real estate assets of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u83	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u84	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome Parliament's ownership of this spring budget sequence around the Rules of Procedure Act. Our majority has pledged to the French to improve the work of the National Assembly. We are laying the foundations for a renewal of our assessment and monitoring missions, to which this debate must contribute. [[Smile]] I also welcome the break-up between the legislature and the executive through the re-appropriation of the parliamentary resolution, aimed at politically marking commitments to do better and to act more concretely. This is an opportunity to set aside a certain legalism that sometimes limits us here. I am sure that some unblocking can be done in good intelligence with the Government. So, Secretary of State, let's work together and upgrade the tools at our disposal, or even unlock the locks...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u85	We have to unlock!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u86	...starting, in accordance with our agenda, with the heavy mechanical machinery affecting the state's real estate. I come to the substance of Jean-Paul Mattei's motion for a resolution, and I want to explain why we must support his initiative, whether it be my colleagues from the Republic on the move or Members sitting on all the benches of this House, belonging to the majority and the opposition. This motion for a resolution leads us to evaluate the law of 18 January 2013 on the mobilization of public land in favour of housing and – in its article 7 – the strengthening of social housing production obligations. This law has mechanized and increased the rebates that the State can grant to communities building social housing. These rebates can now reach 100 per cent of the market value of the real estate sold to them by the State, if certain conditions are met. This is a good initiative. Social housing is, in my view, a true and beautiful mission of the public power, a vehicle for solidarity and national cohesion. Making use of state land may seem to be a path paved with good intentions. This is a good initiative, I said, but our colleague Mattei began, from his special report last autumn, on the 2018 finance bill, to identify, through his careful work, the adverse effects of such latitude, decided in 2013, in terms of haircuts. Jean-Paul Mattei questioned how the private heritage of the State has been managed since then. Unsurprisingly, it was mostly in the tense areas that the state's real estate rights were the most subject of depreciated divestitures, in number and, above all, in volume. According to Mr Mattei's work, it was the City of Paris that found the most to be won. Its observations were largely confirmed by the Court of Auditors' reference on the subject, published on 26 October 2017. The high financial court hardly resorted to euphemisms to evoke the case of the financial arrangements that were very advantageous for the Paris community, which benefited from the State's heritage resources, and thus through the involvement of all French citizens. According to the Court of Auditors, for certain projects, "the taxpayer has thus de facto ensured, via the discount, the share of financing which would normally be borne by the social donors and the land buyers in traditional operations". In the face of this disproportion, Mr Mattei's motion for a resolution aims to rethink our policy of discounting, to professionalise our real estate services and to control property transactions much better downstream, which is already permitted by law today. In the alternative, I would like to add two thoughts to Mr Mattei's good approach. First of all, to what extent has the overexploitation of the State's land sales in a tense Paris area not hindered other real estate operations in France? I am very afraid that government departments, too much of whom have been guided to award haircuts, may have considered contributing too much. I fear, therefore, that with this multiplication of haircuts in the Paris region – I join M. de Courson on this point – the services have responded mechanically by a great chill to accompany other such divestitures elsewhere in France. I am elected to a department with many military wasteland, for which, to date, divestitures seem to be blocked. On the other hand, I am concerned about the conditions under which the real estate services, particularly those of the Ministry of Armed Forces, have carried out massive divestitures of Parisian heritage. Many here are interested in the subjects of defence, our special rapporteur, Olivier Gaillard, the first. It is up to us to balance several interests: to give up a real estate of the defense which, if it were not, would allow to multiply wasteland and buildings which their oldness would in any case render unusable; to boost territories and, in particular, to promote social housing, which is known to be lacking everywhere in France; the economic interests of a Ministry of the Armed Forces which had to make the considerable budgetary efforts, especially with regard to the commitment on the ground, in terms of men and materials, which the State had requested. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote on this resolution by Jean-Paul Mattei.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u87	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u88	Mr President, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution presented to you by Mr Mattei calls for a more proportionate and appropriate use of the discount applicable to the disposal of property and real estate in the private domain of the State. It is not unnecessary, first of all, to recall the advantages provided by the provisions of the Act of 18 January 2013 on the mobilization of public land in favour of housing and the strengthening of social housing production obligations, known as the Duflot Act. It has made it possible to set up an objective and transparent discount system, allowing to modulate the importance of the aid to be granted according to the real estate programme and the area of tension of the real estate market where it is realized. By setting deadlines for depreciated real estate operations, it has promoted the rapid production of housing, always preferable to the creation of land reserves. Finally, it measures the cost to the State of the effort. However, and as has been said by several speakers, the quantitative record of this mechanism remains modest. Since 2013, it has carried out 85 operations, representing only 8,000 housing units, including nearly 6,000 social housing units. In 2017 alone, 20 operations benefited from this scheme to produce 1853 housing units, including 1,643 social housing units. The cost of the scheme is high, since the effort made since 2013 is 130 million euros, of which 23 million for 2017 alone. As many of you have pointed out, we are far from the "offers shock" promised in 2012, but objective reasons, which we must recall, explain this situation. First, the State's real estate divestiture accounts for only about 0.1% of all real estate transactions in France. In 2016, only 30 per cent of the government's assets sold were suitable for housing construction. Half of the assets proposed by the State, and as such included in the regional lists, are located in areas where there is no land tension, and they rarely find themselves taking over. Other criticisms, also made on the operative part, were rightly recalled by Mr Mattei. The posting of the properties proposed by the State in favour of housing on the regional lists is, if we can express ourselves in this way, part of the "false good ideas", which have brought more disadvantages than advantages. Furthermore, it is wrong to suggest that only the land on the lists can benefit from the laws and regulations of the discount. The administration shall examine, without any difference in treatment, the requests for rebates made to it, whether or not the land is part of the regional lists. The support of this Government, like previous Governments, for housing policy has never led the administration to reject a discount, on the pretext of not being included in these lists. On the other hand, these lists contain land which is not of interest to municipalities or social housing actors, but whose inclusion in a regional list prevents the sale to other economic actors for other uses. The State is thus led to keep unnecessary sites, is exposed to expenses – of guarding, in particular – and is deprived of revenue, while the property loses value. It should also be pointed out, as has been done, of the abuses that may have resulted from the scheme, through assistance to inefficient operations. It is not illogical that the haircuts are the strongest in Paris, where the differences in value between free and social markets are the largest. But helping to finance, through the discount, the transformation into housing of the former library of the Institut national des langues et civilisations orientales, located on rue de Lille in the 7th arrondissement of Paris – a building, moreover, particularly unsuitable for this type of transformation – is at least questionable. In this particular case, the discount exceeds its role, because it is not used to compensate for the price of land, which is its raison d'être, but the cost of construction. In Paris, for example, the average discount is EUR 100222 per social housing, while the national average, excluding Paris, is EUR 16,000 per housing unit. We have probably gone too far, and the President of the Social Housing Union echoed this, calling for a better allocation of state aid for social housing. The resolution proposes several ways of improving this haircut, not to weaken it, but to improve its effectiveness. The Government can only be very supportive of this approach. First, it is proposed to review the circumstances and conditions under which the use of the haircut may be lawful. We share your ideas, by suggesting amendments that help to improve the effectiveness of the scheme, by removing regional lists and its perverse effects, and thus by removing the concept of a duty-free clause which ultimately does not contribute to the scheme. Secondly, you encourage the Government to revise the regulatory framework setting out the criteria for calculating and capping the discount. The Government considers it important to maintain the ability to achieve a maximum discount of 100 per cent of the land value for the operations justifying it. But this measure is not incompatible with a ceiling of the discounts, depending on the areas of tension, to prevent the abuses that I have recalled, on the built goods. This measure is of the legislative level and requires an amendment, such as the one you proposed. You also call for consideration of the land reserves available to the municipalities. This approach, the principle of which is relevant, may nevertheless present real difficulties of implementation, since these land reserves are not known to the State services and may have other legitimate purposes than the production of social housing. Let us also not forget that the control of urban planning by the municipalities would make any attempt by the State in this area futile. In terms of simplification and efficiency, it seems to us wise not to further complicate the regulation, and we will be content, since we share your objectives, to ask the prefects to invite local authorities, like the State, to act in favour of housing, by mobilising their heritage, when it is appropriate. Finally, you call on the Government to encourage the establishment of a genuine ex post financial control of the transactions that led to the sale with discount, in order to ensure the fair share of the developers' or planners' own funds in their financial balance. The current system provides for ex post checks, which the housing authority will have to carry out in order to verify compliance with the commitments entered into, which have justified obtaining a discount. The departments of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Cohesion of the Territories, as well as the departmental directorates of the territories, are also familiar with the local references for the mobilisation of own funds in this type of operation. These checks will be carried out. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For the reasons I have just mentioned, the Government is happy to accept Mr Mattei's motion for a resolution, since it does not require, with one exception, legislative or regulatory measures. An instruction from the Minister of Housing, if any, co-signed by the Minister responsible for the area, will be sufficient to implement the provisions and recommendations you propose. That is the commitment we are making.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u89	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-18-O1277.u90	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Questions about credit cancellations in 2017; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to put the people and their aspirations at the heart of the budgetary debate. The meeting is adjourned.
