ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, following the initiation of the accelerated procedure, of the proposal for a law by Mr Raphaël Gauvain and others transposing the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure (No 675, 777, 775). This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u2	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u3	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, Minister of Justice, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in order to have competitive advantages, companies invest in developing know-how and acquiring information useful to their activities. In our knowledge-based economy, much of the value of a business is based on intangible assets. Various means of protecting such knowledge, including the use of intellectual property rights or copyright. However, there are know-how and information that cannot benefit from this type of protection, but which nevertheless have value and must remain confidential: it is "business secrets". On the basis of the fact that the latter are not protected in a uniform manner within the European territory, Directive 2016/ 943/EU of 8 June 2016 sought to establish a sufficient, proportionate and comparable level of reparation in the event of misappropriation of a business secret. It also aims to harmonise the definition of business secrecy, as well as cases in which the protection of business secrecy cannot be opposed, in particular in order to guarantee freedom of expression, and in particular freedom of the press. The proposal for a law that we are considering is aimed at transposing this directive; the transposition must take place before 9 June 2018. On the form, it should be noted that, for reasons of agenda, the transposition of this directive was done by parliamentary initiative and not by way of a bill. It is, to our knowledge, unheard of. The MODEM Group regrets this because the use of such a vehicle further restricts the possibility of parliamentary initiative. Moreover, the text is therefore not accompanied by an impact assessment or an a priori opinion of the Council of State. I readily acknowledge that the wrongs are shared: the previous government would have had every opportunity to carry out this transposition, instead of leaving it to its successors. In view of the sensitivity and complexity of the subject, rapporteur Raphaël Gauvain decided to refer the matter to the Council of State for its opinion. We must thank him very much for this, as we must thank the Council of State, which shook its timetable to deliver an opinion before the meeting of the Law Committee, which took place last week. On the substance, this bill incorporates the definition of business secrecy given by the directive: information which is not "generally known or easily accessible to a person acting in a sector [...] usually dealing with this category of information", whose commercial value – actual or potential, a point that has prompted discussion – is due to its secret character, and which has "been the subject of reasonable protective measures on the part of its legitimate holder". This definition seems to us to be in line with the spirit of the directive. We would, however, like it to be clarified; I'll come back. The proposed law also defines the licit holders of business secrets, the unlawful methods of obtaining, using or disclosing business secrets, as well as exceptions to the protection of business secrets. It seems to us that the derogations provided for in the text before us today correspond to those listed in the directive. We wish to reassure some of our concerned fellow citizens: business secrecy is not enforceable against journalists, whistleblowers or employees in the exercise of their right to information and consultation. The bill also provides for measures that may be ordered by the judge to prevent, stop or remedy a breach of the confidentiality of cases. Civil courts may prescribe, including under periodic penalty payments, any proportionate measure which would prevent or stop an infringement of the confidentiality of cases. They may also order that proceeds resulting from the breach of secrecy be recalled, modified, destroyed or even confiscated for the benefit of the injured party. We believe that the choice to provide only for a commitment of civil, not criminal, liability of the perpetrator of a breach of business secrecy is the right one. Finally, the proposed law allows courts to implement, in the course of proceedings, measures to protect the confidentiality of cases, such as in camera hearings, restricted access to documents or an obligation to state reasons. The Council of State considered that, on the whole, this proposal did not contain any overtransposition, even regretting that the legislator did not make greater use of the room for manoeuvre offered by the Directive. It also regretted that the transposition had not been accompanied by coordination with positive law or a reflection on the articulation with neighbouring concepts. In this connection, we would like to thank the rapporteur for having included in the text adaptations to the Code of Administrative Justice and we have noted that some of the amendments he will be defending today will enable us to respond to the recommendations made by the Council of State concerning the consistency of concepts within French law. The work in committee has been fruitful and open. Some of our amendments, resulting from the opinion of the Council of State, were taken up by the rapporteur and adopted. In our view, there are two points to be discussed in this House tonight. On the one hand, we will have to talk again about the inclusion of the word "confidential" on corporate documents, in order to better specify what is explicitly a secret, as is the practice with staff representative bodies, IRPs, and documents incorporated into the social database. On the other hand, if this bill is adopted, there will be a double definition of whistleblowers: that of the directive and that of the Sapin 2 law. In order to clarify the relationship between the two definitions and to delete the words "including", we will propose a compromise amendment which we would very much like to see adopted this evening. The MODEM and related group, regretting the way in which this proposal was tabled, supports this text, which will fill gaps in French legislation and harmonise the rules at European level, in an approach favourable to the competitiveness of enterprises. This European harmonisation is essential and we are pleased to be a party to it. We will therefore enthusiastically vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u4	Mr Yves Blein has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u5	Madam President, the keeper of the seals, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, what vision do we have of Europe? What's our project? Transposing a European directive, Directive 2016/943/EU of 8 June 2016, we could doubtless focus on such technical details of data ownership or exchange at length on the delicate issue of freedom of information made available to the public. Would we, however, have created "the envy of Europe"? Would we have expressed a European ambition, would we have highlighted the quality and the need for solidarity between the members of the European Union? I don't believe it. With this text, we are not turning – as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs liked to say during the debates – into "small telegraphists" of European technocracy; We affirm that we want to build a protective, strong Europe in an open world, where its interlocutors are called China, the United States, Russia, India, Japan and so many others. To do nothing would be to sin by naivety. Allowing each Member State to manage alone with the protection of its economic interests would simply create the conditions for most of our 27 partners to become an easy prey for other more powerful, better armed and, above all, better defended economies. It would be a failure of Europe's duty of solidarity with each of its members. On the contrary, our partners must feel that their economies are protected by a system that transcends them. This common defence of our interests gives rise to the idea that the European feeling, the European Union, is not empty words but a very concrete and tangible reality. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this text, and with it the directive we are transposing, is an expression of a European project that we want to be ambitious, strong, built and protective for our economies. We must protect ourselves, our brands and our trade secrets, but because we are Europeans, this requirement cannot hinder quality information to which all European citizens must be entitled. This is the double dimension of this text. It defines the confidentiality of cases and establishes the conditions under which the latter may be invoked; It defines the penalties that may be incurred by those who attempt to violate it. But it also preserves the necessary transparency, due in particular to consumers. Thus, the present draft law provides for derogations from the protection of business secrecy; They will ensure that the exercise of freedom of expression and communication, as well as freedom of investigation, are protected. We must guarantee these freedoms because they protect us – sometimes against ourselves. We need to protect whistleblowers, employees, staff representatives, and more generally all those who can take the initiative to reveal information on grounds of public interest. The exercise of these fundamental rights must not, however, prevent a strong protection of the processes, the methods of manufacture, the list of ingredients of a particular product, since they constitute – even if they are sometimes only virtual – the wealth, the capital of the company and of those who work for its success and performance. In this respect, the Directive undoubtedly improves the legal certainty of trade; it makes perfectly clear and accessible the civil system for the protection of the confidentiality of cases, which will no longer be subject to judicial provisions, but for the most part to comprehensive and precise provisions, both legislative and regulatory. It is difficult to define the balance between data protection in terms of international competition and the need for transparency. This text is the culmination of a reflection undertaken several years ago; It does not happen, as some would make it believe, as well as a hair on the soup. In 2011, Bernard Carayon had already tabled a bill on this subject; In 2014, Jean-Jacques Urvoas proposed establishing a civil and criminal liability regime. Later, the Sapin 2 law looked at the definition of whistleblowers. The text we are considering today, which I hope will be adopted, is therefore the result of a process of reflection which began several years ago. The Committee on Economic Affairs, which has received an opinion, has been able to debate the interest of French companies in a text which finally better protects their activities. At a time when the ownership of digital data is often a real basis of life for our companies, also at a time when intrusions are becoming increasingly strenuous and sophisticated, it was essential to react and not be angelic. Industrial espionage is also taking place today on the green carpet: the rules of world trade sometimes lead to the need to expose secrets belonging to the company – and to base its wealth. Our role was also to ensure – and this is a constant objective for us – that the transposition of the directive did not impose legal constraints on our companies, which would be in addition to European demands. It appeared to us that this was not the case. It is therefore with pleasure, and above all with the conviction of doing a useful job in favour of our companies exposed to international competition, that we will support the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u6	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, the draftsman for an opinion and ladies and gentlemen, there will be no posture or trial of intent in my remarks. You have repeatedly repeated your search for a balance between, on the one hand, the just protection of the manufacturing secrets of our industrialists and, on the other, transparency and freedom, democratic principles that bring us together; I credit you with this will. I am driven by a deep, unwavering conviction: the great challenge of our century is the rebalancing of public and private power. Large transnational corporations can now allocate resources and set standards as never before. This power is exercised beyond reason, often in mismeasurement. One of the major contemporary challenges of democracy is to set limits, to allow deliberation, to guarantee the exercise of rights, to ensure this balance of powers in a world in which financialization and globalization have confined the capacity of one another and the fragility of the other to disproportionate. We must rebalance public and private power. We have often criticized the last mandate – I have done it myself, sometimes – but we can be proud of some fighting, especially those that have brought us to the right level of European standards. Thanks to the will of parliamentarians, often more than at the initiative of the Government, we have managed to overcome the delay that our country experienced at the end of the Sarkozy era. I am thinking of a pirated amendment to demand transparency from banks in the fight against tax havens, which we managed to pass during the review of the bill to regulate and separate banking activities. I am thinking of an innovative measure that we have managed to include in Sapin 2 law, but which has gone unnoticed, to fight against "vulture funds". Thanks to these provisions, our legislation is now the most advanced in Europe on this subject. It is not a minor subject, seen from the countries of the South. Similarly, our legislation is considered to be the most compliant with European standards for whistleblowers. As for the fight against corruption, we have upgraded. But there is one area, Madam Keeper of Seals, of which I am particularly proud and on which I would like to draw your attention, because we are one anniversary day. Exactly a year ago, on 27 March 2017, not only did we reach the level of European standards, but we invented a way to set the law in multinationals, which today inspires a part of the world. The Duty of Vigilance Act was enacted exactly a year ago. This law, which allows, through a plan of vigilance, to prevent serious violations of the environment, to protect human rights, to fight against child labour in production chains, for example, is due to a formidable string of success, which brought together non-governmental organisations – Sherpa, Amnesty International, the Catholic Committee against Hunger and for Development, CSR collectives – corporate social responsibility – and I am moving on. In this regard, I would like to welcome Danielle Auroi and Philippe Noguès, the two parliamentarians with whom we formed a team to conduct this fight for four years, against a government that did not want it, and against multinationals that were the headquarters of the state. I would also like to mention the intellectual world, in particular the Collège des Bernardins, which, after a nine-year cycle, achieved through the Senard-Notat report, a real cultural revolution in the conception of enterprise in the twenty-first century, which inspired the duty of vigilance. I would like to mention again the unions that have led all these struggles. To imagine that they are now weakened by this text – involuntarily, I would like to believe it – is difficult to conceive. This evening we will make every effort to ensure that NGOs, whistleblowers, all stakeholders who can open the doors and windows of companies are allowed to pursue their work, to introduce these principles of democracy, deliberation, to make the truth emerge and to establish new rights by denouncing scandals, even when they are still only at the legal stage. This movement is irreversible. It is the great contemporary movement, that of rebalancing public power and private power. Since we seem to share the same philosophy, accept the handful of amendments that will make all the difference and remove any ambiguity. That is the insistent demand that I make, in the name of the fighting that we have waged, on behalf of those who are the most fragile today and whose rights we want to reaffirm. We must restore power to the citizens, rebalance our democracy, prepare paths of hope for the next century. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Do not close the black box of the bad face of the companies, whose page we want to turn. To take up François Ruffin's remarks, it is not a question of considering that empires or lords are good or bad by nature, it is simply a question of overcoming these systems and inventing modern democracies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u8	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u9	Madam President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the Panama Papers and LuxLeaks cases, on 8 June 2016, our MEPs voted massively for the directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure – the so-called "business secrecy" directive. It is a matter of catching up with the European Union's delay in protecting companies from industrial espionage in the United States, Japan or China. The added value of a company lies in its ability to be competitive and to create wealth. France is a large territory of innovative companies. To remain in the course of the market economy, it is necessary to protect its know-how. In the context of a globalised economy, we know that our current legal framework is not sufficient to effectively protect sensitive business information. Industrial property – with trademark and patent law – and copyright for enterprise software offer only imperfect answers to the new protection requirements. The transposition of the Directive, in line with this protection, requires legislative changes before 9 June 2018. This is the subject of the bill tabled by the Republic Group on the move. This text contains only two articles. However, the debates in committee have been lively, which is normal, because it is up to us to reconcile the secret of business and the freedom to undertake, with freedom of expression and the right to information for the public. On the substance, Article 1 lays down the definition of the secrecy of cases by adopting the three criteria laid down in Article 2 of the Directive: information known to a limited number of persons, having commercial value because of its secret character and subject to special protective measures. Whether it is a recipe, a patent, a manufacturing secret, a strategic economic data or an internal document, this confidential information can indeed be valuable. Information may have commercial value, for example, when it is an element of scientific and technical potential, an economic or financial interest, a strategic position or a competitive capacity for the holder. It must therefore be protected, as it concerns the stability or even survival of the enterprise. But this secret may sometimes conflict with the general interest. If it is accepted, in a modern democracy, that a company must publish its balance sheets every year, report to its employees on the decisions it takes or cooperate with the justice system, the right to inform must be able to justify the disclosure of certain information to the general public. It is this tension between two sometimes antagonistic objectives that has been at the heart of our debates and that will undoubtedly be so again this evening. That is why we have made several exceptions to the protection of business secrecy: for journalists in order to preserve the exercise of the freedom of expression to which we are all committed; for whistleblowers whenever they report a fault, reprehensible act or illegal activity, with the aim of protecting the public interest; for employees or employee representatives when they are aware of information which is theoretically confidential but which is necessary for their own defence against an employer. Will the combination of these provisions prevent us from revealing new scandals tomorrow? This is a legitimate concern, but the answer is no! All scandals in the general interest debate, especially when they concern companies or political leaders, will continue to be legitimately and legally revealed. I am thinking of cases of fraud or tax evasion, issues related to public order, safety or public health, but also of environmental risks: the one who will reveal the polluting processes of a company will no longer be able to be prosecuted on the basis of business secrecy. The rapporteur also wanted to protect journalists and whistleblowers more effectively by adopting an amendment which creates an autonomous system of civil fines, with an increased ceiling, which judges can rule on in cases of unfair proceedings – so-called "babble proceedings" – or disproportionate claims for damages. In the same vein, Mrs Karamanli's amendment adopted in the Committee on Laws will make it possible to better cover the protection of those who are being protected. Finally, some pitfalls, such as the defamation of university professors for commenting on court decisions in specialized journals, can be avoided. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this balanced text will protect both professional know-how, the intangible heritage of companies, and fundamental freedoms, the exercise of the profession of journalist and the activities of whistleblowers. For these reasons, I invite you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u10	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u11	Madam President, the guardian of the seals, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, barely adopted by a large majority on 14 April 2016, the European directive on the protection of business secrets was already attacked by many NGO representatives, journalists or members of civil society, who denounced an infringement of fundamental rights and freedoms, particularly for employees, journalists and whistleblowers. However, its transposition must leave no doubt as to its sole objectives, which are to define and protect the "business secret" of companies, as to its sole vocation, which is to protect them from industrial and economic espionage, to protect their know-how, to guarantee their discretion and intellectual and material intelligences. The French economic and entrepreneurial tradition has long been part of rules of loyalty and trust, of use and of custom, based on the privileged contractual relationship, where one holds confidences, secrets for sale and for sale. In fact, our legal system punishes the unauthorized use of confidential information, but appreciates this violation as a simple general principle of protection based almost independently on provisions to combat unfair competition – breach of a confidentiality clause – or on case law, for example, criminal law by resorting to offences of abuse of trust or theft. This French apprehension of "business secrecy" is now too confusing and inoperative. The jurisprudential rules that simply punish the violation of the presumed good faith, of loyalty, prove to be limited and unprotected by our SMEs against economic and industrial espionage, the looting of their innovations and research, the violation of their manufacturing secrets. Transposition will change this pitfall. The proposed text ensures a clear and complete articulation between the primary provisions for the protection of business secrecy and respect for fundamental rights. It provides our companies, and particularly those that do not have the means to resort to procedures for the protection of intellectual property, a clear and accessible legal framework, an arsenal of remedies, liability and civil reparations against the illicit acquisition, use and disclosure of their data, methods and strategies, or any other qualities and characteristics that make them singular and efficient. By using these room for manoeuvre, this law provides for derogations guaranteeing freedom of information and expression. Because business secrecy cannot apply when it comes to to "exercise the right to freedom of expression and communication, including respect for the freedom of the press", the journalist shall be protected from any action in opposition to the publication of an investigation or the claim for damages. On the other hand, persons who reveal "in good faith a fault, a reprehensible act or an illegal activity for the purpose of protecting the general public interest" cannot be opposed to this secrecy. However, by reference to the Sapin 2 law, whistleblowers are also excluded from the scope of liability. Finally, because employees are employees, it recognizes their exception and allows them to obtain internal information about their company and grants them the right to transmit it. By setting reasonable safeguards that are in full compliance with the right to information, this new, transposed arsenal must deter spies and above all reassure our entrepreneurs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, after the failure in 2011 of the proposal of our former colleague Bernard Carayon, which was aimed only at criminal punishment, thus ignoring the civil nature of the contract, and in 2015 of that of our colleagues Bruno Le Roux and Jean-Jacques Urvoas, who, by way of a too comprehensive approach, trivialised fears of deprivation of liberty, this bill finally manages to reconcile the European requirements for optimal protection of business secrecy with freedom of expression and information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u12	The general discussion is closed. Mr Raphaël Gauvain, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u13	I will simply make an observation, in response to the various speakers. The definition of business secrecy has animated our debates in the Law Committee, and this will still be the case tonight. Many argue that the definition would be too vague, that it should be refined and that the directive would allow room for manoeuvre. That's not true. There is no room for manoeuvre in this text. The directive is very clear on this point: we are in the context of a minimum transposition, which means that we cannot change the protection that is due or the definition of business secrecy. We cannot, therefore, extend the definition of exceptions. If we are in the context of a minimum transposition, the aim of the directive is to provide for the same protection and definition in France, Germany or Italy. This is our European commitment. We will return to the topic during the discussion of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u14	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u15	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u16	If they are of a diverse nature, the scandals of LuxLeaks, fipronil, Panama paper or Mediator, to name but a few, all have one thing in common: that of having broken into public opinion thanks to women and men who have set aside their personal interest in denouncing practices that are contrary to the public interest. All had the courage to expose the compromise of certain private interests with the sole aim of protecting the citizens. The scandals that these whistleblowers have revealed go far beyond our borders. They involve interests that are expressed at European or even international level. In this respect, the directive that we transpose through this bill is fundamental, since it is the first European text to recognise the status of whistleblowers and their investigative capacity. Is that enough? No, because the multiplicity of situations in which whistleblowers can be involved, the diversity of areas in which they continue their investigations, and, above all, the importance they have in our society, legitimize that a full European text be dedicated to them. Let us not be mistaken: the directive on the protection of business secrets is primarily aimed at SMEs in order to preserve their capacity for innovation in the face of global competition. That's a good thing. However, since whistleblowers are the guarantors of the protection of the European general interest, a protective and homogeneous European text has to be written on them. Finally, the European Commission seems to be determined to provide a European response to the isolation of whistleblowers, since a proposal for a directive dedicated to them is on the agenda of the meeting of the College of Commissioners on Tuesday, 10 April. We will therefore be following with vigilance the Commission's proposals in this area, so that the whistleblowers, these anonymous heroes, are also finally protected by Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u17	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u18	I would just like to point out that the transposition of this directive is obviously an important element of competitiveness for our companies and that we must therefore ensure that we do not go too far from the text of the European Commission. On the other hand, in order to listen to our fellow citizens, particularly those who are the representatives of staff and journalists, I hope that our debates will be pedagogic, particularly with regard to the safeguards provided for in the text, so that no one has the feeling that the directive, whose title contains the word'secret', will give rise to omertà on practices which we do not want and which the text is not intended to facilitate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u19	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u20	In order for the debate to take place in good conditions, I propose that we end the posture, or prejudice, of assuming that those who campaign to preserve whistleblowers, strengthen journalists' investigative capabilities and confirm the role of NGOs in bringing to public opinion business secrets that undermine morals and violate the rule of law, would threaten the viability of companies by stifling the preservation of their know-how. First of all, I would like to point out that there are many pieces of legislation that protect this know-how, including intellectual property and industrial property. Many laws, which can be improved, therefore create the conditions under which SMEs, TPEs and all companies can consolidate the implementation of their know-how. In addition, you assert this in a context where the capital instability of companies makes us fear the worst in terms of siphoning know-how. A large number of companies, in fact, can be tapped by predatory investment funds, i.e. by capital which cares little about the business name. I would like to share with you a fact that I was reminded of: two years ago, on the proposal of Nicole Notat, Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of the Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs, presented a prize to a virtuous company, Lafarge, which has since seemed uncomfortable with the secret of its relations with certain countries, relations which are shaking the fundamentals of the Republic – I will not say any more, so as not to interfere with an ongoing investigation. I simply wanted to point out that the secret of business can call into question the fundamentals of the Republic. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This early transposition of the directive will prevent any alerts on such important issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u21	We come to the amendments. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 5 and 39, which aim to delete Article 1. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u22	I will not go back to the arguments I have already put forward in the general discussion. I'll just react to what I just heard. It is possible to use all possible arguments to defend the bill, except for two: to claim that the directive was designed, on the one hand, for SMEs, while it was written by multinational lobbyists, and, on the other hand, for whistleblowers, while the whistleblowers themselves, as well as investigative journalists, claim that this text puts them at risk and weakens their situation and their status. Since the comments of the opposition members, whether in committee or in the Chamber, do not meet with much echo, perhaps you will listen more to those who are supposed to be protected by your bill and who, on the contrary, consider it dangerous. I am obviously referring to the forum signed by the society of the editors of the World and La Vie, as well as by the companies of journalists from Échos, Agence France Presse, TV5 Monde, du Point, France 2, from Parisien Today, BFMTV, Premiers lignes, Challenges, RMC,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u23	What about the Huma?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u24	...by Mediapart, Telerama, Sunday Journal, Radio France, Humanity, Liberation. When almost all the companies of editors or journalists alert us to the dangers of your bill that transcribes the European directive, they are no longer just a few members of the opposition who would have adopted I do not know what position. It is all those involved, namely whistleblowers, investigative journalists and NGOs, who make transparency a key element of democratic life in our country, who are insurgent against this text, in particular against the lack of protection of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u25	It's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u26	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] That is why we are calling for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u27	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u28	Like Mr. Little, we too are asking for the deletion of Article 1. It was said that the main objective of this text was the protection of SMEs: I would like to point out that the influence of lobbies in the European legislative process in general and on this particular text is no longer to be demonstrated. It is explicit, since these lobbies have gable on the street. The content of the directive that we are transposing is a perfect example, since the Commission has almost outsourced its drafting to law firms, under pressure from multinational lobbyists who have pushed it to define business secrecy as a form of intellectual property. This process, which is detailed in a report published by the Corporate Europe Organisation – CEO – is based on hundreds of documents. It is therefore not a question of elucidation of France unsuspecting. The fact that NGOs have not been involved in this process is, from our point of view, very serious, especially since it is a text dealing with business secrecy that involves the protection of many individual and collective fundamental rights. The way in which the text to be transposed was designed explains the substance of the bill, based on the interest of private companies to the detriment of the interests of individuals. It is not about transparency, but about small arrangements in the influence rooms, where the people are neither invited nor welcome. The report I mentioned, on the exchanges between the Commission and industrial lobbies, shows that the main lobby in action as early as 2010 was the Trade Secrets and Innovation Coalition, a discrete lobbying group that brings together multinationals such as Air Liquide, Alstom, DuPont, General Electric, Intel, Michelin, Nestlé and Safran: you see, SMEs that have been very successful. We are therefore very far from the presentation that has been made of this mechanism. That is why we call on you to vote on our amendment challenging this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u29	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u30	Unfavorable opinion. These two amendments had already been defended in committee. The directive must be transferred before 9 June. It was also voted by almost 80% of European parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u31	Not by us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u32	I have, of course, read the rostrum, which you mentioned, published in Le Monde and signed by many journalists. I'm challenging it. Those who drafted it did not read our text, particularly on one point: they argue that the bill creates a criminal offence with respect to the violation of business secrecy. That's not true. I repeat: those who wrote this rostrum have not read our text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u33	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u34	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u35	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u36	The signatories of the rostrum, the rapporteur, have made changes to the law in relation to the criminal offence. They even question the fact that the civil has been chosen and that it is the unprofessional judges of the commercial courts who will be responsible for these cases, especially after Mr Arnaud Montebourg's excellent report on the mafia formed by the commercial courts. Delegating issues related to freedom of expression to such a partisan or even corrupt jurisdiction in some cases is a problem in itself. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We were also opposed to the argument of SMEs: when he was European Commissioner for the Internal Market and Services, Michel Barnier himself sought to have SMEs with him. Why? Because multinationals have to be hidden behind SMEs. I have already made this comparison in the Chamber: in the eighteenth century, bishops or archbishops, when they were corrupt, sought to highlight the good little parish priest. Everyone knows very well that a directive putting multinationals on the front lines would go wrong in the opinion: it was therefore necessary to look for the false noses of SMEs, which we have not even found!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u37	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's surreal to hear the applause of such a tirade! Mr Ruffin, dealing with the judges of commercial courts as thieves or bandits is lamentable. Such statements do not respect the work of these judges, who, for the most part, are volunteers, carry out their duties in a dignified and integral manner. You could have found an element of law, if you had sought it: behind the commercial courts, which constitute a first level of jurisdiction, there are the courts of appeal, which are composed of professional magistrates. Rest assured: justice is impartial and does its job well, including in commercial courts. Don't worry about it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I ask you to have some restraint when you talk about people who do their job most of the time in a totally disinterested way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u39	No! I'm holding on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u40	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u41	Justice is not sugar. As citizens, we have the right to have a judgment on the justice of our country, so I accept the idea that we can use the expression "partisan justice". Of course, the word is free in this House and no one can be prosecuted for the words he has said about it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u43	...but asserting, at the turn of a sentence, that the justice of our country is corrupt...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u44	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] ... amounts to breaking the building that allows the balance of our whole society and our institutions. Honestly, I don't think we're honoring ourselves to let go of such sentences that are in no way supported...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u46	These are false accusations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u47	...and which simply reflect a mood.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and MODEM group]] As parliamentarians, we have perfect freedom of speech in this House, but there are limits to be respected. We're dishonoring ourselves by saying things like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u50	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u51	I did not wish to speak on this amendment, since the Government's opinion agrees with that of the rapporteur, but Mr Ruffin's comments and the reactions to them prompt me to say a few words to assure you of my confidence in the justice provided by the commercial courts and of the attention paid by the chancery to these courts. Parliament has recently strengthened the training of consular judges, so that they now have all the necessary powers to make justice as possible and have all the necessary elements to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Ruffin, if you challenge European law on the grounds that it is made by lobbies, if you challenge French justice on the grounds that it is in the hands of lobbies, then I don't know where we're going... I think there is a form of drift that I just wanted to regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u53	I have before me three amendments, Nos 43, 79 and 10, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u54	With this amendment, we want to reverse the burden of proof. You say that this transposition of the directive will not create a deterrent against whistleblowers. We think the opposite is true. By accepting our common sense amendment, you can prove that you do not want the whistleblowers not to be protected. According to Article 1e of the proposal, whistleblowers will have to show their good faith when attacked by a complainant company. On the contrary, according to our amendment, it will no longer be for whistleblowers to prove their good faith, but for the complainant company to demonstrate that the disclosure of information is illegal. Moreover, in all the ordinary proceedings, it is for the complainant undertaking to prove the unlawful nature of the act which it denounces. We thus take up the proposal of a group of NGOs working on this subject since the first version of the directive was presented. In particular, we have met with one of them, Pollinis, as part of our work on this text. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Today, we see an asymmetry of means: whistleblowers are isolated individuals while large companies have many means, especially legal ones, and can multiply the trials – we have observed that Vincent Bolloré had tried to gag many media, including the magazine Complement d'investigation, by bringing them to trial. Our amendment therefore avoids the risk that business secrecy will become that deterrent that I was talking about right now. The numerous scandals of Mediator, LuxLeaks and Panama Papers have proved the usefulness of whistleblowers; While the Sapin 2 law has enshrined their legal existence, it is now up to us to actually protect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u55	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u56	In full transparency, I would like to inform you that this amendment has been proposed to us by an NGO. It seemed to me to be common sense, to the extent that it refers to the prosecuting party to provide evidence of what it alleges. I would like the rapporteur to tell us why we cannot reverse the burden of proof in this particular case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u57	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u58	First of all, I would like to reiterate here that we can decide sovereignly to transpose or not to transpose the provisions contained in this directive, depending on what we consider to be the general interest. Let me turn to Amendment No 10. Today, article L. 152-1 of the Commercial Code is formulated in such a way that it is up to the actors who have had access to secret information to demonstrate that they have acted in accordance with the law. Our amendment seeks to keep in mind the European text, that is, to condemn the unfair use of the business secrecy of a company by a competitor. In order to strengthen the safeguards for those who disclose secrecy without any economic benefit, we therefore propose to reverse the burden of proof: it would be up to the prosecuting party to prove that the facts which it denounces are real. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We have been told in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that this amendment is unnecessary, because it is always up to the person who claims something to prove it. All right! However, the aim of this amendment is not to clarify the obvious, but to discourage the prosecution of a whole range of actors not acting for an economic purpose – in particular trade unionists, whistleblowers and journalists – but in the general interest. In other words, beyond this comment on the burden of proof, the aim here is to restore the balance between the general interest and the economic interest. That is why we continue to defend this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u59	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u60	Once again, we have already discussed this issue in committee: under the current rules of the Civil Code, it is up to the prosecutor to demonstrate his allegations. In this case, therefore, it will of course be up to the company to prove that its business secrecy has been infringed: it will have to demonstrate that the alleged acts fall within the scope of the definition of business secrecy and possibly discuss with the journalist who claims that he was acting in the public interest and will invoke the exception. We remain in the normal context of a civil trial, of this part of ping-pong between the two parties where the basic rule is to demonstrate his allegations. In my view, these amendments are therefore satisfactory: I give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u62	That is exactly the same view, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u63	I call Mr François Ruffin to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u64	It is a question of proposing another definition of business secrecy. Indeed, the definition given in paragraphs 8 to 11 is problematic because it is extremely tautological: according to article L. 151-1 of the Commercial Code, any information that companies stamp themselves as a business secret is considered to be protected by business secrecy. This information must have all the following characteristics: it must be "easily accessible to a person acting in a sector or field of activity which is usually concerned with this category of information", it must have "commercial value" and must be subject to "reasonable protective measures on the part of its legitimate holder... in order to keep it secret". In other words, I repeat, it is the companies themselves that define what is a matter of business secrecy. This is obviously not desirable. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] If the purpose of business secrecy is in fact to avoid espionage, it should be stated in the definition that this principle covers information of competitive value. That's what we're proposing. It will then be for the prosecuting party to demonstrate that the purpose of obtaining, using or disclosing information protected by business secrecy was to take unfair advantage of financial investments made by another, thereby affecting the economic interests of the victim company. We thus delineate much more clearly the information relating to business secrecy, without letting the company play Little Robert as Alain Rey himself would.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u66	Unfavorable. I answered you earlier, Mr Ruffin: your amendment is in fact intended to change the definition of business secrecy by restricting it, which is contrary to the minimum transposition objective that we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u67	You just copy what Europe says!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u69	Same opinion. In fact, the directive sets a minimum basis for harmonisation, below which we cannot go, so that the European text is homogeneous and protective. However, Amendment No 27 leads to a reduction in this minimum base: that is why we must give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u70	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u71	I would like to return to the important issue of transposition, which is at the heart of not only this debate, but also of other debates that we will have in the future. The definition of "translating" is "adapting a statement to a different context of statement." Therefore, transposition, even minimal, does not involve directly copying the European Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u72	It's not "control C, control V"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u73	It should also be noted that the directive leaves Member States room for manoeuvre to transpose it. Article 3 of the Convention states that "the acquisition, use or disclosure of a business secret shall be considered lawful to the extent that it is required or authorized by Union or national law". It is therefore written black and white that we have the opportunity to define business secrecy ourselves, to insert into our national law a provision which, without contravening the directive, leaves us some room for manoeuvre. Refusing to do this means disposing of his responsibilities as a parliamentarian and depriving national representation of his role. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We constantly condemn Brussels for imposing certain decisions on us. In this case, this is not the case. It is the Government's responsibility to refuse to transpose this directive in a way that is too protective for companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u74	I have before me two amendments, Nos 57 and 12, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 57, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u75	This amendment makes it possible to clarify and identify more clearly the information that may be covered by business secrecy. As I said in the general discussion, such a provision already exists in social law: when employees' representative bodies have access to strategic information from the company, particularly in the context of the economic and social database, it is open to the company to state very clearly the confidential nature of this information. That is why we have introduced in the wording of this amendment the adverb "in particular", which allows us to say that there are other ways of doing things, while clearly indicating this procedure. We therefore hope that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u76	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u77	Earlier, François Ruffin was shot with red balls, who had been a bit excited by putting all the courts of commerce in the same basket. However, Arnaud Montebourg had done so before him without any reaction. I also recall that, when he was Minister of Economy, Emmanuel Macron succeeded in putting all the commercial courts on strike.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u78	He was a socialist at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u79	I note that you support the commercial courts today. We will be careful to ensure that, in the territorial mesh, they are preserved in their ability to be alongside and at the bedside of companies. We'll see if you applaud with that much energy. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify Article L. 151-1, which, in a way which we consider to be very vague, details the three cumulative conditions characterising information protected under business secrecy. The third of these conditions, amended marginally in committee, reads as follows: "It is the subject of reasonable protective measures by its legitimate holder, having regard to the circumstances, in order to keep it secret. You will agree that this wording is vague: what is meant by "reasonable safeguards"? What will be considered reasonable, and given what "circumstances"? How will the judge interpret these different notions? The margin of appreciation is, you will agree, too large and the wording adopted in fine is too broad and may be inconclusive and unbalanced. We propose, with this amendment, a completely reasonable rebalancing: the scheme would provide that the person who could have access to protected information should be clearly informed of its confidentiality – this is generally the case when employees are informed in works councils of specific business situations and the documents bear the word "confidential" in large print. This imperative is fully respected. The amendment therefore has the merit of clarifying the practical application of this mechanism. I would add that the urgency of transposing the European directive into French law is misleading, because, in the absence of a transposition law, the directive would apply in extenso in French law, without the need for a transposition law. The argument that this would disrupt or disrupt the balance of enterprises falls on its own.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u80	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u81	Opinion in favour of Amendment No 57 corrected and unfavourable to Amendment No 12. We discussed in committee whether it should be added that the information was confidential. I then issued an unfavorable opinion because, by requiring that the information be kept confidential, one element was added and the definition of business secrecy was changed. That is why I gave an unfavorable opinion. On the other hand, in the amendment tabled by Mr Latombe, everything is in the adverb, which has the advantage of avoiding touching the definition while giving an example: for information to be protected and kept secret, its confidentiality will have to be stamped. In fact, as we said in committee, it is clear that if companies want their information to be protected and kept confidential, they will have to apply certain good practices. Thus, if they want to avoid discussions before the judge as to whether protected information falls within the definition of business secrecy, indicating that this information is confidential will help to define it. Opinion in favour, therefore, of Amendment No 57 corrected and unfavourable to Amendment No 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u82	Why are we against No. 12?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u84	For the same reasons, i.e. for the adverb in Amendment No 57 corrected and for the imperative nature of the absence of adverb in Amendment No 12, I am expressing a favourable opinion on the first and an unfavourable opinion on the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u85	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u86	I will just add two more to what has just been said. The reality of business and business sometimes makes it difficult to stamp information as confidential. Indeed, what is protected under secrecy is not just written information, but a device, a process, a commercial value or other elements. Failure to take this into account would be an absolute disregard for the real life of the company and the way in which information which is, by its nature, confidential is protected by secrecy. The word "in particular" thus takes its full meaning, because it allows it to be done not only for what you are talking about, but also for everything else. I would also point out, in order not to have to go back too often, that the concept of transposition has constitutional value in French law and that we cannot escape it. Contrary to what you said, this transposition does not apply automatically...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u87	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u88	...and it is essential that we do it. In these circumstances, the levels of transposition are minimal and respect both the spirit and the text which allows it to be carried out. We can then adapt it, but by standing above the base, not below it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u89	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u90	I look forward to Mr Latombe and to the MODEM Group seeing this amendment accepted. However, let me make one observation: we are told that the adverb "in particular" takes the decision, but it must, on the contrary, ask us, because it is used in the same order of protection, whereas it is not at all the same thing as to provide, at 3°, that the information "is the subject of reasonable safeguards by its legitimate holder, in the circumstances, in order to keep it secret". After these reasonable measures of protection comes the very interesting idea of a mention indicating that these are confidential provisions. The adverb "in particular" does not seem appropriate from the syntax point of view. Secondly, it is not necessary to follow the verb "notify" from the adverb "explicitly", which adds to the sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u91	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u92	This is one of the main criticisms of this bill: its broad scope, with the transposition of the European directive into a broad sense of secrecy and confidentiality. The legal value of the adverb "in particular" can have many interpretations. This word was used, for example, in the context of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE –: it was intended that a tax credit could be available, especially if jobs were created. There has been a tax credit, but job creation has been rare. It is therefore clear that the adverb "in particular" is not at all able to avoid the main criticism of this law, which is a broad conception of secrecy. For having worked, like others, probably here, in sectors or organizations that required a rule of secrecy, I can say that, despite what has been said, it is known that it is clear which information is confidential and which is not confidential. If we strictly implement the text and spirit of the European directive, we should be able to accept the amendment tabled earlier by Mr Jumel, which is based on a less broad approach to this directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u93	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u94	Respect for business secrecy, why not? But we could first ask companies to respect our private lives. The latest scandal in this field is that of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, whose data they have recovered from 50 million users without their consent. However, similar cases can be encountered in France as well. Carrefour, for example, holds the data of 15 million customers, with the history of their purchases for two years, and, as I said earlier in my speech, the CEO refuses to give an interview. With Easido, La Poste has collected data by asking almost the factors to spy on its users. Sonia Scharfman, general secretary of MEDIAPOST, refused to answer, on behalf of the "business secret", as well as a number of companies such as Go Sport, C-Discount, M6 or Assurland, among others, which they can be considered to be engaged in without customers being always aware of. Our amendment is minimal, because it does not even call for an end to this system or better control of it, even if it seems to me that it would be useful for Parliament to take note of it and see how rules can be laid down and enforced. It simply asks that data which would have been obtained without the consent of users should not be regarded as business secrecy. We therefore wish to insert the following subparagraph: "business secrecy may not relate to information relating to personal data used to perform private profiling for profit". If certain practices do not exist, the least we can do is to avoid a business secret coming to cover them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u96	Unfavorable opinion. Rather, this amendment should be presented as part of the ongoing discussion on the General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR. It is in this context that we must present this amendment to frame – more strictly, in your opinion – profiling. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u98	It is indeed a question of articulation with the GDPR that is being asked here, and we have discussed it very recently in this House. The proposal to prohibit private profiling for profit appears to be contrary to the Directive and disproportionate to the guarantees directly provided for in the GDPR, in particular on the basis of paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 22 of that Regulation. It does not seem useful to me, therefore, to clarify this point here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u99	If there is no protection, we have been right to table this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u100	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u101	First of all, we are told that this amendment should not be included in the text we are considering, but in the following text. We have been given such speeches for nine months now. Thus, Richard Ramos, who was preparing an amendment on Lactalis, was told that we should wait for the General Food States – EGA. But that's not even where the problem lies. Our proposal, if you read it well, does not tend to ask for profiling to be prohibited or even regulated, but it is about business secrecy: it provides that it cannot be covered by the business secrecy of personal data used to perform private profiling for profit. You are replying to me by referring to the possibility of profiling, but that is not the point of our amendment, which simply aims to ensure that business secrecy cannot apply to this type of data. So this is, and in a very specific way, business secrecy, but with a far less ambitious scope than a demand for profiling regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u102	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u103	Mr Ruffin, the GDPR is not the next text we will be looking at: we have already done so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u104	Colleagues, this is not a conversation between two Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u105	We have tabled amendments on the GDPR!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u106	Mr Bernalicis, please let Mr Latomb explain himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u107	Your amendment has no place in this transposition of the directive today, but in the GDPR. This is not just business secrecy: the GDPR provides for everything that relates to algorithms and the processing of these data. It is therefore appropriate not to include your amendment in this transposition of the directive, but in the GDPR. This European directive is much more protective than it was.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a slightly formal point: when you speak, you do not have to address one of you and engage in a dialogue between two Members, but you speak to the Presidency and to the whole House. The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u109	The GDPR provides for certain limitations on professional secrecy. It has nothing to do with business secrecy, which cannot be opposed to the GDPR.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u110	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u111	Mr Ruffin, you have already spoken widely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u112	I therefore request a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u113	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u114	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u115	The meeting was resumed. I shall now put to the vote Amendment No 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u116	Madam President! I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u117	I cannot give you the floor, Mr Ruffin, because the vote is on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u118	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u119	As Danièle Obono said earlier, by definition, in transposing European directives, Member States retain room for manoeuvre in order to establish a common set of principles. This is also the case with this directive. However, the Constitution entrusts the National Assembly with the task of defining, when fundamental freedoms are at stake, the field of compulsory, prohibited and permit. We have already said it in committee: I repeat it here. Because of the margin of manoeuvre left by the directive and in order to fulfil this constitutional duty, we propose a clear definition of the area of business secrecy. To this end, this amendment tends to exclude from the scope of secrecy any "scientific discovery that would have a substantial impact beneficial to the well-being of humanity and the environment". In committee, you have told us that the limits to the secrecy of cases are obvious, and that the courts will be able to refer to the record of parliamentary debates. But why leave it to litigation, to doubts, when the rule could be clear from the start? A better definition would protect discoveries that are of general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This amendment seems to us to be of common sense. Moreover, you seem to agree with us on this point: I therefore invite you to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u121	Opinion of course against this amendment, which seeks to change the definition of business secrecy. It is intended to insert a paragraph in the proposed law which reads as follows: "No information relating to a scientific discovery which would have a substantial impact on the well-being of humanity and the environment may be protected under business secrecy. But any scientific discovery can have a "substantial impact beneficial to the well-being of humanity"! That is why this amendment would deprive business secrecy of its substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u123	Unfavorable opinion. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the directive on the protection of business secrecy imposes on the Member States a minimum level of protection of business secrecy. They can, in their national law, protect them more, but they can protect them no less. It therefore seems to me legally impossible to restrict the scope of protected information, as you wish to do. I would add that this amendment, in a way, calls into question any intellectual property, which is not acceptable: every creator must be able to take a financial advantage of his innovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u124	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u125	You have to be a little serious, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u126	Just be it yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u127	You say that this amendment tends to delete all intellectual property: that is not true. You're reading it too extensively! Suppose a private company makes a discovery that could change the face of humanity, such as a medicine that cures a rare or incurable disease. Will we allow such a discovery to remain deliberately hidden, in order to increase the profitability of the drug in question, and therefore the profits of the company that discovered it? Let us now assume that a whistleblower, for example the researcher who made the discovery, decides to disclose the information: will it fall under the legislation protecting business secrecy? Will he be criminally responsible for disclosing information essential to the well-being of humanity? This is what this amendment is about. This is a measure of obviousness, common sense; But obviously common sense is not what prevails in this House. I hope you deny it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u128	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u129	It is clear that this amendment is based on a good feeling that all mankind should benefit immediately and at a lower cost from scientific progress. The problem is that private research, which has proven its effectiveness, has always relied on the possibility of preserving the results of its research in order to make them profitable for a certain period of time. This is how we can find ways to continue this research, to take it even further, which ultimately benefits everyone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If we adopt your amendment, private companies would no longer have any incentive to carry out research: in the end, the effects for humanity as a whole would probably be more negative than positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u130	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u131	We sometimes have the impression that our debates are strictly theoretical, off-soil, disconnected from reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u132	And, with you, ideological!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u133	On the contrary, I will share with you a life experience. In March 2008, I became mayor of a beautiful city, Dieppe. A meningitis pandemic developed in the Seine-Maritime, affecting children, killing families. At the time, there was only one effective vaccine against this epidemic, in Norway, and the only laboratory capable of producing it in France needed, for this, a disclosure of the know-how, and therefore of the business secrecy, relating to its manufacture. The minister at the time told me, in my office, that with less than 1 million copies, the development of such a vaccine in France was not profitable. Thanks to her, who had the courage to convey this information to me, we were able to mobilize and get this vaccine developed anyway. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] All this shows that, sometimes, when a public interest is at stake, when the public interest justifies it – in this case, the health of children – it is worth revealing a secret. This amendment is not a generous but naive proposal: it can be applied to concrete cases, in the field of health as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u134	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u135	By this withdrawal amendment, we propose to clarify explicitly what cannot be considered to be a matter of business secrecy. The directive itself invites us to do so. These are the environmental impact of the company's activity, the working conditions of its employees, the relationships with its subcontractors and subsidiaries, and the tax arrangements that it can use. As we have said and repeated this evening, the European directives by nature leave room for transposition to the Member States. However, it is sufficient to read this directive to realize that it allows Member States to define and precisely define the concept of business secrecy. Rather than copying the text of the directive word for word, as you intend to do under Article 1, we propose to give a new definition to this concept. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore propose to limit what may be a matter of business secrecy, taking into account the legitimate general interest which may be represented by the information relating to "the environmental and health impact of its activities as well as those of its subcontractors and subsidiaries", "the working conditions of its employees", "its policy of recruitment, dismissal, remuneration" as well as those of its subcontractors and subsidiaries, "the relations maintained by a person with its subcontractors and subsidiaries", "tax information of a fiscal nature relating to the optimisation of taxation, the existence of tax arrangements" and "information of any kind which makes it possible to establish the existence of tax or social fraud, tax evasion, the commission of criminal offences and the financing of terrorism". »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u137	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons: this amendment is intended to change the definition of business secrecy in the directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u139	Unfavorable opinion, too. As I understand it, the authors of this amendment are concerned that, because of the protection afforded to business secrecy, access to certain information of general interest is no longer possible, particularly in the fields of the environment, taxation, labour law, the fight against fraud and corruption. I'd like to reassure you. First of all, it seems to me that business secrecy cannot be protected if it does not enter into force, in French law, according to the definition drawn from the directive, which this text reproduces. However, protecting business secrecy is not about protecting all business matters. It will not be possible for a company to object to the administrative or judicial investigations to which it would be subject. This is clearly stated later, by article L. 151-6, paragraph 1, of the Commercial Code, in its wording resulting from this bill. There is no question of preventing the disclosure of tax fraud, breaches of labour law or acts of corruption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u140	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u141	I would like to reply to the rapporteur on the scope of our transposition obligations. We maintain that the European Commission itself allows us the possibility of overtransmitting or sub-transmitting, knowing that if it subsequently considers that the transposition is not in conformity, it will be able to initiate infringement proceedings under this heading. For once the Commission has given us room for manoeuvre, let us use them, especially since companies retain the opportunity to point out that transposition undermines the confidentiality of their business and to initiate proceedings. I cannot help but reinforce the argument for the good of humanity put forward by our colleague Jumel by quoting the a contrario example of Marie Curie who had refused to patent his discoveries on radium to allow any scientist, whether French or foreign, to draw inspiration from it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is therefore clear that this is not only a cool baba ideal, but also an ethic of research that honours researchers, whose examples such as Marie Curie's have shown the importance for the development of research and which we should draw inspiration from this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u142	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u143	We have to stop mixing everything. We are in the most complete confusion! You're not going to question everything that makes us lucky enough to have a real private search. No one will invest in research if it can no longer remain confidential and if its results can no longer be protected. What you're proposing makes absolutely no sense. Whether the fruits of this research can be made available to as many people as possible is another debate than that of business secrecy. With regard to the amendment that you are now defending, we are also in full confusion. Business secrecy has nothing to do with the company's social, financial or environmental policy information. You're mixing everything! You confuse business law, environmental law, tax law and social law. Labour law already provides that the company must communicate a certain amount of information to its employees. If you wish to reinforce this duty to inform employees, propose it as part of a text reforming labour law, not as part of a text on business secrecy. I would like us to come back to a little more reason, to look closely at the scope of this text and to stop mixing everything. Companies need to be able to protect the most important secrets about their trade policy or research policy. It is the life of companies, the market and our economy that is at stake: without a minimum of secrecy our economy cannot function.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u144	The rapporteur for an opinion, in support of Amendment No. 24, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u145	The aim of this amendment is to retransmit the directive more faithfully. In the current state of the proposed law, the prohibition or contractual limitation of obtaining a business secret is provided for in paragraph 22. While the Directive limits the contractual framework to reverse engineering operations, the proposed law extends this contractual framework to all procurement situations. This is therefore an overtransposition. I therefore propose, with this amendment and Amendment No 25, that we go back to the original text of the directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u147	Unfavorable opinion. The real question is whether we really need that precision. We consider that it would not change much in practice. An employee who accidentally becomes aware of business secrecy is not liable to prosecution since he is not contractually bound by the obligation not to obtain business secrecy vis-à-vis his employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u148	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u149	I withdraw this amendment even though, in my opinion, it is not just about employees. I consider, however, that leaving the two options open, the situation is well covered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u150	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u151	The aim of this amendment is to align the text of the proposal with that of the Directive by extending the protection to cases where the employee performs a representational function or where the practice is consistent with practice. We therefore propose, for the sake of clarity of the law, to include paragraphs 3 and 4 of the European Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u153	Unfavorable opinion. As I told you in committee, the clarifications you want to make by adding these two paragraphs are already contained in sections L. 151-3 and L. 151-6 of the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u155	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u156	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u157	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the penalties incurred by persons who violate the confidentiality of a company's business. It also specifies reasonable exceptions to its application, taking into account the obligations to which companies must now refer: advertisements established by laws and regulations, requests for information from the judicial authority acting in the context of criminal proceedings and from any judicial authority, and cases of reports or information relating to facts which may constitute offences or breaches transmitted to the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u159	Unfavorable opinion. You propose to make the violation of business secrecy a criminal offence. It was said in the general discussion that this possibility was given to us by the directive, but for various reasons we chose not to introduce such an infringement into our law. I would remind you that there have already been five or six attempts in this direction and that each of them has ended up failing because of the emotion that it has aroused. The Council of State had issued an extremely negative opinion on the text aimed at creating a criminal offence of business secrecy, in particular because of a definition that was far too broad and not sufficiently explicit. In any event, if the prosecutor intends to prosecute a person who has allegedly violated the secrecy of the cases, he already has in place such ordinary offences as theft, concealment or even fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u160	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u162	The Directive provides for an obligation of civil compensation in the event of unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrecy. It does not require States to impose criminal penalties for such conduct. From a legal point of view, it seems to me that, as the rapporteur has just said, infringements of the confidentiality of cases can be punished by very many provisions of the Penal Code penalizing theft, the abuse of trust, the introduction into automated data processing systems, the obstruction of the functioning of these systems, the infringement of the secrecy of correspondence, but also the provisions of the blocking law or penal provisions penalizing infringements of intellectual property law. It therefore does not appear necessary to create an autonomous criminal offence of breach of business secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u163	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u164	Allow me to be sceptical, Madam Minister, rapporteur. It is well known that the criminal law is strictly interpreted. What Mr Cinieri is proposing is to provide for an offence which is perfectly suited to the case in question. You are opposing us that the directive provides for civil reparation, but I am absolutely not sure that this is enough for such a serious damage to the functioning of the company, or indeed to the economy in general. That, in these circumstances, the criminal law does not shock me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u165	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u166	If I tabled this amendment, it was because I met, in a previous life, the case of an ill-intentioned collaborator who had disclosed the company's secrets. Although it was not contractually bound to secrecy, the company nevertheless filed its balance sheet, leaving almost 150 employees on the tile.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u167	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u168	The case you are referring to – an employee who has access to confidential information in the course of his or her duties and who uses it in a way that does not conform to these functions – is the very type of abuse of trust. There are many other cases where the arsenal of ordinary offences has led to the prosecution of employees who have violated business secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u169	Madam draftsman, do you withdraw Amendment No 25, which you have already tabled?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u170	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u171	I have before me three amendments, Nos 67, 9 and 42, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 9 and 42 are identical. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u172	By this amendment, we propose that the scope of the proposed law should be narrowed in line with the spirit of the directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u173	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u174	Once again, this is an amendment aimed at circumscribing too wide a transposition of the secrecy of cases into French law in relation to the European directive. The new article provides in paragraph 20 that: "The obtaining of business secrecy is unlawful when it occurs without the consent of its legitimate holder and in violation of one or more of the following measures taken to keep it secret.... " There is no mention here of what is at the heart of the reasons for the directive, namely the fight against dishonest commercial practices, as stated in recitals 4 and 5 of the European Directive which this proposal for a law aims to transpose. Therefore, with this amendment, we are relaying a proposal made by a collective of NGOs, associations and trade union organisations which states that the acquisition of business secrecy is unlawful when it is perceived "for the purpose of illegitimate competition, allowing the recipient of the information to take unfair advantage of financial investments made by another, thereby affecting the interests of the victim company". This amendment received an unfavourable opinion from the rapporteur in the Committee on Laws, on the pretext that it would restrict the definition of business secrecy. Let me remind you that the lobbyists who defended this text in Brussels have presented it as a means of combating dishonest commercial practices and that, as a result, we propose nothing other than to remain faithful to these expectations – but not more. This amendment thus clarifies a red line between the general interest and the private interests which it is dangerous, in our view, to cross.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u175	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u176	Many NGOs have been said, but let us repeat, are very concerned about the transposition of this directive. The online petition "Stop business secrets" addressed to us – I think you have received it and read it carefully, colleagues – has already received almost 200,000 signatures. She joined the 2016 petition launched by a consortium of European NGOs, which had collected 500,000 signatures thanks in particular to the support, in France, of journalists such as Élise Lucet. No doubt you followed the hearing, on Monday, of the trial that Vincent Bolloré brought against France 2 by claiming 50 million euros. Such examples show that it is important to measure what is at stake in this transposition. It is about protecting the right to information, which is one of the foundations of democracy. Civil society and NGOs have largely expressed opposition to the text. As our colleagues have said, this amendment takes up a proposal from this NGO collective to limit business secrecy to companies in a competitive market, which will ensure that business secrecy is not a massive deterrent to NGOs, journalists and whistleblowers. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] If the objective of protecting business secrecy is – as the work carried out by the WTO and pursued by the European Union shows – to protect undisclosed information of high economic value, then it is difficult to understand why it is not strictly circumscribed... This is the subject of this amendment. We hope that you will understand it and vote massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u178	Opinions against these three amendments for the reasons already mentioned: you amend the text by adding a condition to characterize an unlawful acquisition of business secrecy – in this case, the fight against unfair competition. Contrary to what you support, the directive transposes the definition at a minimum. Read it again, read its articles 1 and 3: they are here combined!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u180	Also unfavorable, Madam Chair. It does not seem correct to me to consider, as the authors of the amendments do, that the mechanism for protecting business secrecy, as provided for in the directive and transposed into the draft law, is only applicable in the context of unfair competition between undertakings. Unlawful acquisition of business secrecy is not necessarily the act of a competing company in order to derive an illegitimate benefit from the knowledge acquired. Obtaining protected information may simply have a destabilization purpose, or it may be the result of malicious action. This may also be another process, which is not necessarily the result of a competing company. Finally, I would like to take up the rapporteur's remarks by saying that we are in a situation in which it is not possible to restrict the scope of Article L.151-3 in view of the level of harmonisation provided for in Article 1 of the directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u181	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u182	The refusal to vote on this amendment illustrates the ambiguity of this bill. Initially, we sell this definition to the European Commission, and we are still being sold this evening fairly broadly, as a way of fighting industrial espionage. This is the target, these are the three cases constantly cited: Alstom, Michelin, DuPont de Nemours. By saying that competition is not the sole aim, that there is something else, for example acts of malice, we see that you extend the notion far beyond what is industrial espionage, which is well motivated by a competitive profit-making purpose. Secondly, the European Commission initially advocates a relatively narrow definition. In its first draft, it referred to "the protection of product innovations" and "the fight against counterfeiting". If we had stayed there, we would have joined the European Commission without difficulty, but then the lobbies went up to the niche in order to make a massive extension of the definition that we are asked to validate tonight, simply because it has been validated at European level. [[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I heard what my colleague Fasquelle said earlier. We have a difficulty: the very framework of the debate does not suit us, and we are condemned to encounter it at all times. We have come to talk about co-writing the law with the European Parliament and we are told that if the nail has been broken down, it has been a little straightened up, it must be satisfied! Well, no, we can't satisfy ourselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u183	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u184	This purely editorial amendment is intended to insert the word "other" after the word "all" in paragraph 23. In full transparency, I would point out that it was suggested to us by the Pollinis association. I come back to another point: the accelerated procedure and the choice of a bill avoid any impact assessment. We are at the heart of the debate, since we are discussing an article on whistleblowers. What would the application of this directive do in France? We are told that it will not cause problems, that there will be no worries and that we must not worry about it, but no impact assessment can confirm it! We are told that there are some at European level. Precisely, it worries us! The studies launched by the European Commission all recognise that the text on business secrecy may limit the right to information, but they conclude that the higher interests of business deserve a few breaches of fundamental rights! [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] We have a problem: would an impact study in France have given the same results? We do not have the opportunity to measure it, but this is another reason for being very careful and seeking to limit the scope of this business secret to the maximum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u186	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment is not at all editorial! Its adoption would undermine the definition of business secrecy and limit it to companies in a competitive market. Again, you change the definition by restricting it. I would remind you that transposition is minimal. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u188	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u189	I call Mrs Christine Hennion, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u190	This amendment proposes to replace the words "infringement" with the words "significant infringement" in paragraph 25. The Directive specifies that "property" in violation "significantly benefits from business secrets obtained, used or unlawfully disclosed". However, the proposed legislation replaced the term "goods" with "product" and did not recapture the significance of the breach of business secrecy. I propose to remedy this in order to avoid over-transposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u192	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u194	Favourable opinion subject to reservation – if I was not mistaken! – coordinations in paragraphs 44 and 46, the wording of which will have to be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u195	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u196	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to Mr Ruffin's remarks. We are very familiar here, and for a long time – there was a time when we were not even embarrassed about so much fioritures – of this technique of approving presidential orders at the shovel. We were transposing, transposing and transposing a great deal on the environment, but without the French following. Mr Ruffin said at the moment that the accelerated procedure and the choice of a bill avoid any impact assessment. On a subject as sensitive as this one, Member States cannot realize the implications of transposing this directive. I assure you – as I say from time to time: it digs the huge, abyssal gulf between the states and Europe. I must repeat that everyone thinks that the elections will be a health walk for Mr Macron, who will make a very broad list, with all the centres, but you will see that a very small percentage of voters will vote. Some movements will make voices, but once again Europe will move further away. This is not the right method at all – and you have nothing to do with it, Madam President, perhaps you even think the same thing in your heart without being able to say it, but I have to say it! I felt like a pain piercing my stomach...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u197	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 11 and 68. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u198	This amendment will of course be rejected, but I would like to start by saying that we can understand the nervousness of companies in the face of whistleblowers. Can you imagine, already, how a Communist MP can cross the doors of a box at the invitation of the trade union organizations? I challenge you to enter! Big companies eat each other, and not just right now! Their monopolistic aims are breaking your famous free and undistorted competition! Or they share the cake with almost legal agreements, as is widely seen. And it would also be up to the whistleblowers to provide proof of their good faith – in the context of litigation that does not end? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Your proposal for a law is ultimately a step backwards from a legitimate movement that is expressed in society as a whole, that of an aspiration for transparency in business. For our part, we consider this text to be the mark of a counter-revolution orchestrated by the lobbyists of large companies against this civil society and that it promotes tax, social and environmental actions that have far-reaching consequences. That is why we continue to ask, at a minimum, for the reversal of the burden of proof, in favour of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u199	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u200	This amendment seeks to clarify this issue of the burden of proof by supplementing paragraph 25 with the following sentence: "It is up to the legitimate holder [of the secret] to establish that that person knew or could not ignore it in the circumstances. In my view, this amendment is satisfied and things will happen in this way, but it seemed important to me, in our parliamentary work, that this be made clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u201	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u202	Your amendment is indeed satisfied, dear colleague, since Article 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which will apply in the context of a procedure concerning the confidentiality of cases, states very clearly that "it is the responsibility of each party to prove in accordance with the law the facts necessary for the success of its claim".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u204	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u205	Mrs Untermaier, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u206	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u207	Mr. Wulfranc?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u208	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u209	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u210	The aim of this amendment is to respond to the imperfect application of the so-called blockage law, which is not sufficiently taken into account by the foreign authorities, in particular because it is not sufficiently enforced by the public authorities. It is also a major complication for French companies. Only truly confidential information would thus be protected, which would make it possible to restate, in a credible way, the importance of the mechanism vis-à-vis the foreign authorities and better respond to the concerns of French companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u212	We have already had this debate in committee: you want to amend the so-called blocking law by creating a penal sanction in the event that foreign judicial authorities, particularly those of the United States in discovery proceedings, would ask a French company to disclose documents protected by the secrecy of cases. The problems that may arise between France and the United States during these discovery procedures are a real subject and may be the subject of further discussion in Parliament, but, in the context of the examination of this bill, I can only give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment. It would be contrary to Article L.151-6 of the Commercial Code, which transposes the Directive and shows that business secrecy is a low-intensity secret. There is in fact only between companies and employees and, in the face of a request from an administration or judicial authority, the company cannot oppose the secrecy of cases. Since he did not resist the request of a French administration or justice, it would be contradictory if he could resist a foreign judicial request. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u214	Same opinion. Firstly, as the rapporteur has just explained, the need to create such a crime does not seem clear to us. In fact, there are already provisions which prohibit French and French residents, as well as managers and agents of companies having their head office or an establishment in France, from communicating to foreign public authorities documents or information of an economic, commercial, industrial, financial or technical nature, the communication of which is liable to affect the sovereignty, security and economic interests of France. On the other hand, but this is a secondary point, it seems to me that the wording you are proposing is not very well articulated with the provisions of the law of 26 July 1968, which would have the same object.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u215	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u216	This amendment opens the possibility for the undertaking, where it is legitimate, to seek the protection of business secrecy in the face of a request for communication, as a matter of principle when the request comes from an authority of a non-member country, and as an exception when it comes from an authority of a Member State. Indeed, the protection of companies' strategic data in the face of requests for communication from foreign authorities not included in the directive, it is not in the proposal for a law. This amendment also provides for an appropriate repressive arsenal, since the proposed compensatory mechanism is not likely to hinder foreign authorities and states.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u218	Same opinion as before. This amendment is intended to amend the blocking law, which is not at all the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u219	I have before me two amendments, Nos 69 and 59, which can be put to a joint debate. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u220	This amendment seeks to amend paragraph 31, simply by repeating the wording of the directive. We propose to replace the words "communication" with the words "information as set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union". This is a precise amendment, which seeks to guarantee the right by referring to this Charter, applicable to all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u221	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No 59 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u222	We have already had this discussion in the Committee on Laws and I propose a different wording, since it would be to supplement paragraph 31 with the following words: ", and to freedom of information as set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. " I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment and to vote for mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u223	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u224	I would just like to make two observations. First of all, I should like to note that these two amendments address a common concern and provide a clarification that is not uninteresting, even if it does not seem absolutely indispensable to me. In my personal capacity, then, perhaps I would have preferred a reference to the French Constitution, which carries the same freedoms. But you have chosen the reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and I do not see any problem. I therefore express an opinion in favour of the rapporteur's amendment No 59, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u225	Mrs Karamanli, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u226	First of all, I would like to know what the minister's opinion is on our own amendment. I would then like to remind the House that paragraph 31 refers to the "right to freedom of expression and communication" and that the rapporteur's amendment will add the "right to freedom of information", which makes a lot of repetitions. It would seem preferable to go back to the drafting of the directive, which refers to the right to "freedom of expression and information". The wording we proposed was closer to that of the directive and avoided repeating it. Perhaps it is because it was proposed by the New Left Group that the rapporteur wishes to amend it. Anyway, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u228	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u229	This amendment intends to include a reference to the European Convention on Human Rights, and in particular to its Article 10 on freedom of the press. It seems to us highly necessary to include this reference in French law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u231	Unfavorable opinion. To return to the previous amendment, I would just like to make it clear that we had this debate in committee and that I had proposed to you, dear colleague, that we should agree on drafting. I have sent you a proposal, but it is you who have decided to maintain your drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u232	Because I think she's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u234	Unfavorable opinion. It does not seem useful to me to list all our texts protecting fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u235	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u236	I was in the process of entrusting colleagues in the running Republic Group with the wish – contradictory – to see my amendment taken over by the rapporteur, in more judicious terms. This amendment is important, since it concerns the freedom to exercise teachers and teachers-researchers and it tends to protect their ability to be whistleblowers. We have already mentioned NGOs and journalists, but teachers and teachers-researchers are also exposed to gag procedures, and sometimes they are attacked because of their publications. We absolutely must preserve this intellectual capacity of foresight, research and critical thinking. That is the meaning of this amendment, which I am sure will receive the rapporteur's approval, at least in substance, if not in form.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u238	Unfavorable notice, for exactly the same reasons as before. This amendment would change the definition of business secrecy, and this exception is not provided for in the directive, which is of minimum harmonisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u240	Same opinion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u241	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u242	This answer gives me the opportunity to raise a question. I had to be absent for a while during our debates, and it turns out that I was surrounded by eminent lawyers. I told them that we had just been told that a European directive could not be amended and that it should be taken as it stands. They were extremely surprised to hear that...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u243	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u244	... because there are many examples in French law of transpositions of directives which have been made in a more flexible way, respecting a European base, of course, but with a margin of freedom. So I ask you to do a pedagogy exercise. You tell us that we cannot make an exception, but, with this kind of reasoning, we would not have introduced the duty of vigilance, since European directives do not require hard law. We have chosen to do so in France and today we go to school. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would therefore like to have a clear explanation: can we, yes or no, enrich a European text, provided, of course, that we do not question its basis, which we share?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u245	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u246	So I will repeat the explanation I gave earlier. It's a shame you weren't here! The Directive on the definition of business secrecy and its exceptions is to be transposed at a minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u247	We can't touch it. Why? I have already explained this twice, because the purpose of the directive on business secrecy is precisely that all the Member States of the European Union adopt the same definition of business secrecy and the same exceptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u248	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u249	It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u250	Perhaps, but the directive is drafted in this way. I do not know the lawyers you have consulted, but I can assure you that the directive is a minimum transposition – take the text back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u251	Don't touch the grisbi!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u252	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u253	It seems to me that the directive provides for transposition to be adapted to national law. So we can work a little, and not just copy and paste, as too often. On this text, the boat is well loaded: we do not want to overtranspose, we reproduce the text in extenso, we forbid ourselves to do our work and to clarify the text, and finally, we carry out the transposition through a bill to avoid the impact assessment. This method accredits the analysis of the press according to which the text would go into catimini, under radars, and deprives us of the tools of transparency and modern democracy, in particular of this famous impact study. What's the matter? The government doesn't want to encroach on its agenda? The government agenda left no time to submit the text in the form of a bill before the end of June? I think it's the opposite. The Government had to take over the text. Why a bill? I understand that the majority wants to help the Government by ensuring better timing, but it is not up to them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u255	I have before me an amendment No 55, which is the subject of several sub-amendments, Nos 89 and 90. Mr Didier Paris has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u256	This amendment concerns exceptions to the protection of business secrecy, particularly for the benefit of whistleblowers. On the one hand, it proposes a more readable wording. On the other hand, in the case of maximum harmonization, it is probably preferable to provide for a right of alert relating to illegal activity, misconduct or misconduct, rather than a reprehensible act. Everyone agrees, the concept of behaviour is broader, and thus more likely to protect whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u257	I have before me two sub-amendments, Nos 89 and 90, which can be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u258	Subamendment No 89 concerns the concept of good faith. The text provides for a derogation from the protection of secrecy when it has been disclosed to "demonstrate in good faith a fault, reprehensible act or illegal activity, etc. " In the current drafting, the good faith of the whistleblower is never presumed. This formulation creates a certain legal uncertainty for all whistleblowers or trade unionists and will inevitably be a brake on future revelations. Who can imagine that the whistleblower, often isolated, often alone, will be able to defend his good faith against an armada of lawyers hired by the multinational whose secrets he has revealed? Therefore, the sub-amendment seeks to remove the reference to good faith in order to address the obvious imbalance between the economic interests of companies and whistleblowers to the detriment of companies. This is not an isolated concern, since the UN report on freedom of expression published in 2015 did not say anything else. I quote from this: "The motivation of the whistleblower at the time he discloses information should not be taken into consideration in determining whether he has the right to protection. The determination of eligibility for protection must be based on the determination of the public interest of the information subject to the alert." Our sub-amendment is working in this direction. Sub-amendment No 90 proposes to extend the concept of activity by adding to the term "illegal" the term "legal". A whistleblower can reveal a situation which, without being illegal, is nevertheless immoral, amoral or contrary to the ethics of responsibility – I am thinking for example of scandals linked to fiscal optimisation, which is not an illegal practice but which is reprehensible in the eyes of public morals. The revelations of Antoine Deltour, the originator of the Luxleaks case, do not relate to illegal facts. Yet each one of us salutes the courage he has shown and the definite interest of his revelations. By mentioning legal or illegal activity, this sub-amendment broadens the scope of protection available to whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u259	What is the Committee's opinion on the sub-amendments and on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u260	Positive opinion on the amendment and unfavourable on both sub-amendments. The criterion of good faith is included in the Directive. It must therefore be maintained. In addition, the possibility for a whistleblower who knowingly discloses a false act to take advantage of the protection regime should be ruled out. As for the concept of legal activity, it is not included in the Directive but is covered by the Sapin 2 Act in domestic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u262	I have the same opinion: favourable opinion on Amendment No 55, which sets out the scope of the exemption granted by the directive to whistleblowers. The objective of protecting the general interest, which is the fundamental condition for the exercise of the right of alert, is moved to the beginning of the subparagraph. The substitution, which seems important to me, of the word "behaviour" with the word "act" removes any ambiguity as to the extent of the exception. As for sub-amendment No 89, I am not in favour of removing the requirement in good faith, because it is important for the exception granted to whistleblowers in the directive. It is also an element of definition of the whistleblower in domestic law. I recall that in positive law, good faith is always presumed. With regard to sub-amendment No 90, my opinion is also unfavourable because the alerts provided for in Article L. 151-6 of the Commercial Code relate to illegal activity, misconduct or reprehensible behaviour. In fact, the alert may relate to behaviour which, although not illegal, is likely to harm the public interest. This is the well-known example of aggressive tax optimization. There is therefore no doubt that whistleblowers, within the meaning of domestic law, may invoke the protection provided for in article L. 151-6. It therefore seems pointless to me to state expressly that the alert may relate to a legal activity or to serious threats or harm to the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u263	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u264	To clarify the text, to go a little further, to overtranspose in some way, I have noted, Madam Minister, that the word "explain" should be used. Thus, Amendment No 55 clarifies the transposition of the Directive. I will therefore pass the notice to my colleagues: if they wish to add elements, they must indicate that they want to clarify the transposition of the directive. We will thus speak the same language, and we will finally be able to understand each other and achieve our objective, which is to make the law. As you said, good faith is always presumed in positive law. To avoid overtransposing, let us withdraw good faith – I try to abound in your sense. However, we have spent long hours in reviewing the bill for a state in the service of a trust society trying to reverse the burden of proof for the government, so that it is presumed in good faith, particularly for its relations with the tax administration. It didn't bother anyone. On the other hand, assuming the good faith of a whistleblower seems more complicated. I have a problem with that. I support the amendments by Stéphane Few who clarify the situation and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u265	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u266	You are free to challenge the amendments or sub-amendments that we are proposing. But all the whistleblowers who are grouped in NGOs with proven experience and all the editorial staff, including investigative journals, point out with us the imprecision of the text, especially on legal and illegal activities. If you do not accept amendments from the opposition, at least hear the majority opinion, if not unanimous, of all the civil society actors involved in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u268	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u269	Some NGOs expressed concern about a possible challenge to the proposed law of 9 December 2016 on transparency, anti-corruption and modernization of economic life, known as the Sapin 2 law, in particular article 6, which defines whistleblowers. Indeed, the current wording of paragraph 33 may suggest, as a result of the use of the phrase "including", that the immunity of whistleblowers would be subject to new restrictive conditions – in this case, part one of the paragraph. The purpose of our amendment, which is to replace the words "including in the exercise of" with the words "or in the exercise of", is, while subscribing to the proposed law, to preserve fully the legislation on whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u271	Unfavorable opinion. This is a legal problem, which we discussed in committee. The problem is that the definition of the whistleblower at European level and that contained in the Sapin 2 law do not overlap. Our will, with this bill, is very clear: to allow the combination of the two regimes. We are transposing the directive in such a way that, within the framework of the definition given at European level, whistleblowers can also benefit from the regime established by the Sapin 2 Act. Hence the use of the phrase "including".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u273	Unfavorable opinion, too. The conditions of the exemption granted to whistleblowers by Article 5(b) of the Directive are not restrictive as to the persons concerned or as to the purpose of the alert. Thus, the exception to the protection of business secrecy will benefit not only natural persons, but also legal persons, which will allow associations and NGOs to be considered as whistleblowers within the meaning of the new article L. 151-6 of the Commercial Code. The alert may relate to illegal activity, misconduct or reprehensible behaviour, which means that it may relate to conduct which, without being illegal, is likely to harm the public interest. The scope of Article 5 of the Directive is broader than that of Article 6 of the Sapin 2 Act. The phrase "including" used in the new article L. 151-6 is appropriate: it clearly reflects the relationship between the directive and domestic law; it means "by integrating, including the following case".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u274	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 4 and 73. I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u275	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u276	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u277	In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we spent a few hours on choosing between "including" and "or". This is indeed a question of legislating, Mr rapporteur, I agree with you. That is precisely why I would like to know your point of view on this matter, Madam Keeper of the Seals. You feel that the phrase "including" is satisfactory. There is a controversy: many lawyers and observers fear a funnel effect if used. From their point of view, the term "or", inclusive, would definitely solve the problem, by widening the object and target of the persons concerned, knowing that we want to protect both legal persons and natural persons. Since we have the same objective, how does the term "or" pose a problem? As I mentioned earlier, a handful of amendments would be sufficient to clarify the situation and reassure us. No one is of bad will here. You consider the phrase "including" to be satisfactory; I propose an equally satisfactory term, which also seems to remove the ambiguity, in the opinion of all those who observe us today. Can we not gather on the use of the term "or", which ultimately has the same meaning?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u278	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u279	Unfavorable opinion. In my view, the term "or" is not inclusive, but exclusive: it is one thing or the other. I would point out that the explanatory memorandum is extremely clear on how the legislator wants the text to be interpreted. We have also been in committee, and the Government and I are still in committee tonight. When the judge has to decide this point, he will be able to take notice of our proceedings, which are the subject of a report. He will be able to interpret this famous "including" in the sense we have indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u280	Or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u282	Mr Potier, the point is not to refuse to give you satisfaction: in my view, the term "or" does not have exactly the same meaning, in this case, as the phrase "including". It seems to me exclusive and would give a somewhat different scope to the article. I note, moreover, that, in its opinion, the Council of State "observes that particular attention has been paid in order to articulate the definition of whistleblowers resulting from the Directive and that resulting from Article 6 of Law No 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life. The transposition thus achieves the maximum harmonisation required by the Directive. This seems to mean that the phrases used in the text are perfect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u283	What if we wrote "and/or"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u284	No, "and" is cumulative!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u285	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u286	The debate is about the use of very precise terms. There is a doubt about your willingness to give pledges to NGOs, whistleblowers and the press, to give them the feeling that you take their fears into account. In fact, you have successively refused to delete the expression "in good faith", to extend the scope to acts that pose problems in terms of morality in order not to stick to the mere reprehensible or illegal acts, i.e. reprehensible in court, and to replace the phrase "including" with the word "or". However, in the light of a simple linguistic analysis, the phrase "including" implies that the second condition must be included in the first, while the term "or" induces a possible choice between the two, which means that there would be an exemption from business secrecy in both cases. In terms of the state of mind, if you gave these little pawns, one would have the feeling – this was the starting point of the discussion – that you are in good faith when you say you do not want this directive to be an additional tool of repression against whistleblowers, preventing the disclosure of potentially disturbing data for companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u287	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u288	In introducing Amendment No 58, our colleagues in the Democratic and Related Movement raised an important issue. In fact, by using the term "or", we want to provide for two alternative cases: one can reveal a fault, a reprehensible act or an illegal activity "in order to protect the general public interest", but also, on the other hand, "when exercising the right of alert". The scope of the second possibility does not cover only the scope of the first: the whistleblower can go further than simply reveal a fault, reprehensible act or illegal activity, in particular by preventing or denouncing a threat or harm, which could lead to subsequent prosecution. Including the second possibility in the first is to reduce the scope of action of the whistleblower. Hence the importance of the term "or".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u289	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u290	[[Smile]] Thank you, Madam President, for letting me talk a little bit. Besides, I think you're a really good president. I also find that Mrs. Keeper of the Seals shows a great deal of altruism. Let us recognize, however, that this government is doing quite a good job of passing this text – it seems easy, but no one has managed to do it so far. When I see the work you've done in such a short time, I'm pretty baffled. I think you're going to give guarantees. I think Mr Potier – even if he doesn't listen to me very much – had a good idea when he proposed that we converge. I think we're going to protect the whistleblowers more; I'm pretty sure we're gonna bring a plus. But the problem is that we are not going to believe, that we are not going to be able to provide any information in this regard, particularly to journalists, who are very interested in this matter. The opinion of the Council of State does not even provide alibi – indeed, everyone knows that the Council of State, like the Constitutional Council, does not serve anything strictly and costs the eyes of the head. As I have just mentioned with two colleagues at the moment, it would have been necessary, taking advantage of the luck of Mr Macron's arrival, knowing his success, to put the big European issue and the relationship we have with Europe to a halt – perhaps it is not too late to do so. In view of the directives adopted in the 1990s and 2000s, the French, Germans and Italians are all completely dumped: they feel that their government has been taken away from them or that it is no longer of any use – the Belgians say that they have never been as well as in the 20 months during which they have not had a government – and they also do not, in return, have the authority required in Brussels. I think it would have taken a flattening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u291	Thank you, Mr. Lassalle...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u292	[[Smile]] Thank you, Madam President, you really had merit; I love you very much, you know. Yes, it is! I just wanted to try to move the schmilblick forward. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u293	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u294	Mr Didier Paris has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u295	In order to protect whistleblowers, this amendment seeks to clarify more clearly that a person who obtains, uses or discloses a secret cannot be condemned if he or she has acted to protect a legitimate interest, in particular to "prevent or stop any threat or damage to public order, public safety, public health and the environment". In doing so, we would introduce the notion of "threat", broader than the notion of "protection" in the original text...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u296	Ah! You're overtransforming!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u297	... while retaining references to public policy, public safety and public health, and, of course, to the environment, which was introduced in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u299	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u301	Favourable opinion. This precision is very judicious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u302	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u303	Having not been able to get the floor at the right time – it is no big deal, I understand the rules – I shall go back to the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u304	You have asked to speak on Amendment No 56, Mrs Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u305	Of course, Madam President. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] In fact, the text overtransposes. I simply recall a rule of our beautiful French language. The conjunction "and/ or" is increasingly found in phrases such as "we are looking for a translator who knows Danish and/ or Norwegian". However, this sentence could be translated into good French by "we are looking for a translator who knows Danish or Norwegian". Indeed, the "and/ or" is redundant in relation to the simple "or". Both sentences are synonymous and mean that the wanted translator can know only one of these two languages or both at a time. It is important to remember our beautiful French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u306	Including when it bothers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u307	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u308	In November 2014, whistleblowers Antoine Deltour and Raphaël Halet revealed to the world, with the help of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, one of the biggest scandals related to the tax evasion of multinational corporations: the LuxLeaks affair. These disclosures concerned tax agreements between multinationals and the Luxembourg tax administration through an audit firm, the result being sometimes less than 1% tax for these multinationals. How have these whistleblowers been thanked for denouncing this scandal? By being prosecuted by the courts for having participated in these revelations in the name of business law. It's a shame. With this amendment, we want to clarify the various legitimate public interests for which derogation from business law is possible. We propose to add explicitly the fight against fraud and tax evasion, recognised as a constitutionally valid objective in 2015 by the Constitutional Council. Instead of chasing the whistleblowers, let's chase those who want to escape tax and their allies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u311	Unfavorable opinion. You propose to illustrate the notion of legitimate interest. We have already discussed this debate in committee and included in the text the concept of environmental law. In fact, we do not have to decline a list, which would never be exhaustive. The adverb "in particular" leaves judges the possibility of considering all the assumptions himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u313	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u314	I'm gonna put the vote... sorry. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u315	I know you have to go fast, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u316	That's not the point. Those who want to speak must raise their fingers quickly, before I put the amendment to the vote. Mrs. Obono raised her finger and then lowered her.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u317	That's because she's moderate in her opinions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u318	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u319	I would like to respond to the rapporteur's argument on the adverb 'in particular'. We have to remember the rules of French tonight. That's good! In committee, we wanted to highlight the right to the environment, knowing that the adverb "in particular" can introduce a list. There is no reason to object now that we may overtranspose the directive or not adopt it in accordance with it, since we have already used this procedure, which makes it possible to add certain details to the text. You propose that we allow judges the freedom to appreciate this point. But what are we using, if not to give them elements that allow them to rely on the law? Why complicate their work instead of clarifying it – which should be our mission – by reminding us of certain principles of law that must be protected? This precise amendment is a common sense. The whistleblowers and NGOs ask for clarification of certain elements. You have wiped out amendments that tend to clarify the secret of business. It is intended to protect acts. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You assure us that this is the purpose of the text. We have no doubt of your good faith. We therefore offer you the opportunity to do so, including certain objectives in the defence of whistleblowers. We have already used this procedure. It would be incomprehensible if you refused to use it to guarantee certain fundamental concepts, of which you are probably the first to consider that they should be included in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u320	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u321	We want to clarify the transposition of the directive. The adverb "in particular" could introduce many clarifications. The rapporteur reminded us that the enumeration of the terms in the bill is not exhaustive, but some words, such as the defence of environmental rights, attract more attention. An inventory at the Prévert would be of little importance, since only one, one simple, one poor "in particular" is not enough to reduce the judge's mission, which can always go beyond the proposed terms. Nevertheless, we all know the strength of words, the importance of saying things, of naming them. By the amendment, we propose that a matter which must unite all of us, namely the fight against the financing of terrorism, should be derogated from business secrecy. We have often discussed here the Lafarge case, which seized all of us, especially since the company's trucks were on the construction site, next to the National Assembly's court of honour. A clarification regarding the fight against the financing of terrorism would not be too much, after the adverb "in particular". She wouldn't have anything superfetal, contrary to what some might have said. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Accepting the amendment would not cost much and those few words would send a strong signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u323	Unfavourable notice for the reasons set out above. The list is sufficient and once again, the details that follow the adverb "in particular" are not exhaustive. The fight against terrorism will of course be included in the 3°.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u324	Why don't you write it down?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u325	If that is obvious, vote on the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u326	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u327	Unfavorable opinion. The notion of legitimate interest is flexible and broad. The judge may interpret it to that effect. The drafting of the article does not seem to me to have to lead to an exhaustive list. In addition, issues related to the financing of terrorism and the fight against terrorism may also be covered by points mentioned in the article, such as public order, public security or even the exercise of investigative powers, mentioned above.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u328	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u329	We plead for a principle that we have already defended earlier when it comes to derogations: the one according to which "if it goes without saying, it will go even better by saying it". If we think that fraud and tax evasion, or terrorism, are not covered by business secrecy, I do not see why it would not be explicitly mentioned in the text. We're being sent back to the judge. But before him, the accused and his lawyer will refer to this text. The clearer it will be, the more defences it will offer, especially if the lawyer is not a specialist. On the other hand, the judges we are talking about here are not professional magistrates, but bosses of the vintage. In the commercial court, they will be the ones who will have to judge the secrecy of cases and become specialists in the environment, freedom of expression, derogations from the same freedom, even specialists in fraud and tax optimisation... This greatly expands the matter! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Maybe I got a little carried away earlier, when I talked about the mafia of the commercial courts. I admit we mustn't generalize. But I think that would be a problem for you, if you were told that all these cases will be tried by courts where only trade unionists sit. This is now the situation of commercial courts: employers will have to judge employees who are opposed to their employers. Such a jurisdiction, at least in this composition, is not necessarily the best.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u330	It's obsessive!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u331	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 13 and 76. I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u332	We have just discussed for long minutes whether to replace "or" with "including", whether to clarify the text and add other words after "in particular". All these proposals, which are self-evident to everyone, but which the Government nevertheless refutes. This time, the amendment tends to take over the directive, the whole directive, just the directive. Article 3(c) provides that the acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrecy shall be lawful where business secrecy is obtained in the context of "the exercise of the rights of workers or workers' representatives to information and consultation, in accordance with Union law and national and practical rights. » However, in its current wording, the draft law provides for an exception to the secrecy of cases when obtaining – and only obtaining – this secret has taken place under certain conditions. It excludes use and disclosure from its scope. We propose to go back to the original text of the directive, which is not to be circumvented. Our wish to return to the essence of the directive should inspire your enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u333	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u334	I will extend my colleague's excellent argument. To look at this, we propose by this amendment only to adapt the text to the constitutional principle of our Republic, namely the right of employees and workers to participate. When obtaining business secrecy in the exercise of the right to information and consultation of employees or their representatives within the undertaking, we wish that employees or their representatives may also act in accordance with their duty of discretion and with the tasks they receive in exercising this right. Resuming the text of the directive would make it possible to supplement the text and, in a sense, to protect employees who exercise this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u336	Unfavorable opinion. I would advise you to re-read Article 3 of the directive, which deals only with obtaining business secrecy. Under no circumstances are use or disclosure covered. We find ourselves in the case we have mentioned on several occasions: by inserting the words "use and disclosure", the definition of business secrecy would be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u338	Same opinion. The proposed wording follows strictly the terms of the European Directive, but the authors of the amendments misunderstand somewhat the scope of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Directive, which defines cases of lawful acquisition of business secrecy, and not the assumptions of lawful use and disclosure. Thus, employees or their representatives, who may have access to information relating to business secrecy in the exercise of the right to information and consultation, may be regarded as legitimate holders of a business secret obtained in this context. This will not be the case if they use or disclose this secret. The transposition of Article L. 151-6 is true to (c) of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Directive, whereas the amendments do not seem to me to be in conformity with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u339	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u340	By this amendment, we propose to reverse the burden of proof. We have already addressed this problem. The purpose is to clarify the transcription of the Directive by adding: "For the purposes of this Article, the burden of proof, in particular with regard to good faith, the exercise of freedom of expression, communication, freedom of the press, and the protection of a legitimate interest, rests on the complainant. » I recall that the adverb "in particular" does not introduce an exhaustive list. You will no doubt reply that these provisions are already satisfied, but by writing them, you would reassure certain whistleblowers or journalists, who see that this text may create difficulties for them in the exercise of their profession, whose democratic legitimacy, including in the life-together that underpins our society, is not questionable. I repeat: the amendment is intended to make the transcript more explicit. I have no doubt that, as such, he won your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u342	Unfavorable notice for the same reasons as explained earlier on the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u343	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u344	By this amendment, we wish to introduce into this draft law provisions contained in the directive. The aim of this amendment is to extend the protection of employees by ensuring that their obligations cannot be increased or their rights reduced. The undertaking employing them must not be able to force them on an unlimited basis, particularly as regards non-competition. The concept of non-competition is itself jurisprudential, and obligations in this area should be limited to what is usually accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u346	Unfavorable opinion. The definition of the scope of a non-competition clause must, at the very least, be included in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u347	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u348	In any case, extremely abundant case law limits these types of clauses, both in space and time, and requires that they be remunerated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u350	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u351	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u352	I wanted to ask the rapporteur and the minister about their obstinacy to refuse any amendment, about their allegiance to the business world, about their willingness to be in agreement with him, at all costs. How can we explain that no amendment is made because of you? We've never seen this before! You have decided, even before the text is discussed, not to accept any of the amendments defended by the opposition, including when it comes to adding a comma, clarifying the directive or helping you to clear a certain blur. Even if careful observers of our work consider, without questioning your good faith, that certain provisions may be blurred, you insist. It's called sectarianism. What justifies this? Explain it to us! It would interest me to know how you can justify as much obstinacy as it is through allegiance to the world of business and finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u353	Stop! The rapporteur takes the time to explain himself every time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u354	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u355	I will obviously abound in the direction of Mr Jumel. You have a position of principle, and we are calling for the rejection of this text. Having quickly realized that we would not achieve satisfaction, we have significantly reduced our level of claim. We ask for clarification of the derogations, editorial changes to the margin of the text, and modest changes. Mr. Jumel speaks of allegiance to the business world. For my part, I consider that you absolutely want to make this text look like a technique, when it is actually extremely political...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u356	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u357	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ...and expands the opacity surrounding businesses. We believe, at first glance, in your good faith, but as you reject amendments and reject minor amendments, without giving us any guarantee, we come to wonder if we are not in error.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u358	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u359	My speech comes from the same spirit, even if I use a somewhat different tone. The adoption of Amendment No 55 by Mr Paris has brought down a number of amendments, including Amendment No 75, which is of particular interest to us and relates to the duty of vigilance, particularly in the context of the vigilance plan, with regard to serious infringements of the environment and fundamental freedoms. Many observers in NGOs are concerned today that the duty of vigilance – of which we are proud, in France, and which is the subject of an intergovernmental working group at the United Nations and academic, trade union and parliamentary studies in some ten countries – can be reduced by the secrecy of cases, that risk mapping, an intelligence centre can be subtracted from the judge's examination. We are talking about fundamental freedoms, child labour, ecocides, extremely serious subjects. A study, produced by three NGOs and published today on the anniversary of the promulgation of the law on the duty of vigilance, questions the links between the activities of twenty French companies and the deforestation of Latin American countries, the production of soybeans being carried out under inhuman and severe conditions for the environment. Can this process of humanisation and regulation of globalization be affected by those who for years, here, have fought against this law before it is adopted? I won't do to Mr. I should like the rapporteur and the Commissioner to assure us that under no circumstances can the provisions we have adopted on the regulation of undertakings in these fundamental areas be called into question by the law which you will adopt, certainly without us, at the end of these debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u360	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 14 and 78. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u361	This is an editorial amendment, which is intended to replace the word "engage" with the words "may commit". The purpose of this amendment is to make the civil liability of the perpetrator of a breach of business secrecy an option rather than an obligation. So it's a little more than editorial. In this regard, we consider that the judge should be left with the assessment of the author's civil liability. If you accepted this provision, one of our amendments could finally be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u362	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u363	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that an infringement of the confidentiality of cases covered by the scope of the exceptions provided for in section 4 does not automatically result in the liability of the author.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u364	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u365	Unfavorable opinion. In matters of civil liability, the judge is not bound: he always has the opportunity to characterize the fault and to pronounce a sentence. In this respect, the substitution proposed by the amendment does not seem satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u367	Also unfavorable, since under ordinary civil liability law, if the aggrieved party proves that a fault causes him harm, the author of this fault must compensate him, in accordance with the principle set out in article 1240 of the Civil Code. I cannot therefore support this amendment tabled as a drafting document. I would like to take this opportunity to reply to Messrs. Jumel, Ruffin and Potier. There is no principled position on the part of the Government – nor, I imagine, of the rapporteur –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u368	Show him!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u369	... which would lead us not to accept any amendments. In fact, we accept amendments. We are simply ensuring that these amendments provide legal clarifications which we believe are consistent with the whole text. Furthermore, we are extremely vigilant, in response to Mr Potier, on the coordination of this new text with the texts previously voted, and in particular the 2016 law on whistleblowers and the 2017 law on the duty of vigilance. We have had the opportunity to say so many times since the beginning of this debate. There is therefore no position of principle and there is no need, I believe, to show any annoyance. Mr Jumel, you said that we do not accept any changes, if only the addition of a comma. However, you said so in connection with Amendment No 77, which, in fact, introduced an entire paragraph – it was not a small comma – and reproduced a provision of an interpretative nature in the directive. If we refused it, it was simply because we felt that it was not useful: there was also no position of principle. It seemed important to me to provide these clarifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u370	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u371	It must be explicitly stated that the civil liability of the employee may be incurred only if the breach of the secrecy of the case is intentional, if he "has had the clear intention to disclose this secret of the case and the obtaining, detention or disclosure in question has a direct and immediate connection with the actions of the employee. This amendment has two reasons. First, at present, an employee who forgets a document in a photocopier, a man or a housekeeper who inadvertently leaves a door open, an IT specialist who misdrafts a line of code to protect an internal network could be brought to justice and pay for the consequences of disclosure of a business secret. Secondly, we are often opposed to the fact that our proposals do not comply with the provisions of the directive. In this case, the directive gives us the opportunity to act, since it provides in Article 14(1): "Member States may limit the liability of workers to their employer for damages caused by the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of an employer's business secret, where such workers have not acted intentionally. By this amendment, it is necessary to incorporate into the text that the worker's act must be intentional.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u373	Unfavorable opinion. The rules of civil liability are applied and in this respect the voluntary or involuntary nature of the act is irrelevant. On the other hand, in the context of the employment contract, this criterion is taken into account in the case of disciplinary sanctions which may be imposed on the employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u374	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u375	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u376	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u377	It must be made very clear that you do not use the margin of manoeuvre left to you by the European directive to the detriment of employees. That is absolutely regrettable. The situation is becoming aberrant. On the one hand, you are telling us that, as we are in a civil liability regime, the person can be prosecuted in a court for breach of business secrecy and possibly be given a rather heavy penalty, and on the other hand you assert that under his or her employment contract, he or she will be able to receive a reduced penalty. I really regret that you do not use the room for manoeuvre offered to you by the European directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u378	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u379	I have told you that your amendment is already satisfied with the existing law, and I have given you the explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u380	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u381	By this amendment, we wish to bring the wording of paragraph 55 into line with Article 14 of the directive. We therefore propose to replace the imposition of a floor with the fixing of a ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u382	Mr rapporteur, what is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u383	[[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] Once it is not customary, I express an opinion in favour of the adoption of this amendment. Indeed, there was a shell. Congratulations on finding her, Mrs. Karamanli!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u384	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u385	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u386	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u387	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the fine is sufficiently dissuasive for legal persons. We therefore wish to supplement the last sentence of article 1, paragraph 71, "In the absence of a claim for damages, the amount of the civil fine may not exceed EUR 60000" with the words "for natural persons and EUR 10 million for legal persons". The fine must be dissuasive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u388	Mr rapporteur, what is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u389	Unfavorable opinion. Your proposal seems disproportionate to me. In the context of the civil fine, the flat-rate fine of EUR 60000 may be accompanied by a claim for damages. In this case, the system voted unanimously by the Law Committee provides for the payment of 20% of the damages claimed. Mr Ruffin mentioned earlier an example of proceedings before the commercial court, in which the company requested EUR 50 million; In this case, the fine could be increased to EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u390	What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u391	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u392	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u393	The figure of EUR 10 million is well known, since it was censored a year ago in the text on the duty of vigilance because it seemed disproportionate. I asked the administrator of the National Assembly who is working with us to make a small calculation: if we were to bring this figure back to the economic potential of a multinational, it would amount to a few cents of euros for a fine penalizing an excess of speed on the road. The amount of EUR 10 million is therefore not disproportionate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u394	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u395	When it comes to a multinational, you are very committed to ensuring that the proportions are kept well, but when people are prosecuted, the sums requested and the procedures are completely disproportionate, without any attempt being made to tackle this disproportion at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u396	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u397	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u398	Mr rapporteur, I found your contribution imaginative and positive with the possibility of sanctioning the complainant in the event of a gag procedure in the area of business secrecy. This is a very positive contribution; Sometimes, great progress is born in the edges, such as these strands of grass growing between two cobblestones. I hope this grass will grow, because this element seems interesting to me, and I want to accelerate this development by pouring water. Thus, I would like to see the supervision of these procedures not left to the sole secrecy of the cases. I mentioned earlier the case of Mr Bolloré, who is prosecuting for concealment, theft or defamation about everything that is written or said in the country, whether in Bastamag, in Le Monde or on France Inter. Your proposal should be extended to repeated procedures, including in the field of press law. The contribution would be positive and immediate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u399	We bring water to your mill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u400	Mr rapporteur, what is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u401	Unfavorable opinion. Your amendment falls outside the scope of the bill, since you are proposing to amend the Press Freedom Act of 1881.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u402	What's your opinion, Madam Keeper of the Seals?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u403	I express an unfavorable opinion for the same reasons. The purpose of the bill is to transpose the directive and not to amend the 1881 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u404	I have before me two amendments, Nos 82 and 16, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u405	Mr rapporteur, we will take you kindly to the word. The mechanism provided for in the draft law against unfair or dilatory procedures remains incomplete with regard to the provisions contained in the directive, a sign of a sub-transposition. This is a great pity, because it concerns the protection of whistleblowers, whether they are journalists, members of an NGO, legal or natural persons, prosecuted by dilatory measures initiated by the society they intended to denounce. Protection and reparation of this damage are under-transposed. We would like the draft law to incorporate the provisions of Article 7(1)(c) of the Directive into French law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u406	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u407	As has just been said, the abuse of judicial procedures initiated by the legitimate holders of secrecy should be regulated with the aim of intimidating all those – whistleblowers, journalists, trade unionists – who have had the courage to reveal information about facts that harm the public interest. The Committee on Laws has adopted a system, which seems to us to be incomplete with regard to the European directive. We fear that the European text will be sub-transmitted to remove elements protecting whistleblowers, journalists and trade unionists. Article 7 of the European Directive on proportionality and abuse of procedure provides that "The measures, procedures and reparations provided for in this Directive shall be applied in a manner which (...) provides for safeguards against their misuse. " Paragraph 2 of the same Article states that "Member States shall ensure that (...) appropriate measures (...) are applied where an application (...) is manifestly unfounded and it is found that the applicant has initiated the judicial proceedings unfairly or in bad faith. " Finally, article 11, paragraph 5, provides that it is possible to grant the defendant or the injured third party "appropriate compensation for any damage caused by such measures. " This could have a deterrent effect. We therefore need to remedy this deficiency, as our amendment calls for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u408	Mr rapporteur, what is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u409	I express an opinion against the adoption of these two amendments. It is not necessary to define in detail the abusive nature, in order to allow the judge the possibility to assess in concreteo whether the applicant abused the procedure or not. To enumerate would limit the mechanism set up in committee to combat gag procedures. The scheme adopted in committee provides for a civil fine of EUR 60000 or payment to the State of 20% of the amount of the claim for damages; the defendant, journalist or whistleblower, may claim damages for the damage caused by the wrongfully launched proceedings against him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u410	What's your opinion, Madam Keeper of the Seals?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u411	The authors of the amendment consider that the proposed law does not transpose Article 7 of the Abuse of Procedure Directive. It seems to me that this is not correct. On the one hand, in order to avoid and sanction gag procedures, the rapporteur proposed the creation of a new civil fine in case of delaying and abusive action, in order to reinforce the penalties currently incurred under the general provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Justice. On the other hand, the second paragraph of the new article L. 152-6 of the Commercial Code recalls that any person who abuses his right to take legal action may be ordered to compensate the victim of such abuse. Therefore, the proposed law already responds to the concerns expressed by the authors of these two amendments. Moreover, the proposed wording was not satisfactory in the light of the principle that the exercise of a legal action was a right, which degenerated into abuse that could give rise to a claim of damages only in the event of bad faith or gross error. The mere fact that the action is deemed inadmissible or dismissed is not sufficient to characterize the abuse of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u412	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u413	As we said in the general discussion, we wish to return to the original wording of the bill, which was preferable in that it did not open the procedure provided for in this title to civil and commercial courts. It is inappropriate to introduce measures relating to civil and commercial courts and, more importantly, to venture into the adversarial system, whereas the directive does not invite us to do so. As I said earlier, texts, which are soon to be discussed, will allow us to conduct a broader reflection on all these issues relating to commercial justice. We must not be suspicious, but we must be vigilant because of the problems posed by commercial justice. We cannot exercise this vigilance when measures are proposed in the committee of laws without any impact assessment drawing useful comparisons, studying the effects of the provisions or evaluating the existing arrangements. We have tabled a series of amendments, and I would ask you to respond, in a fairly general way, to the reasons which lead you to change the procedure, when the directive does not ask for it and this does not correspond at all to the purpose of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u414	Mr rapporteur, what is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u415	The directive leaves the choice. You should have attended the hearings that we conducted, because this provision responds to a unanimous request from magistrates, specialized lawyers and the Council of State. I invite you to review the opinion of the Council of State, which states that extending this system to all jurisdictions would be a great opportunity. Moreover, this already exists in certain areas, such as competition law, but also in practice. This exists before the Paris commercial court and all the courts, but it is only a practice. Thus, what is done in Paris is not necessarily found in Toulouse or Marseilles. We therefore propose, following the unanimous recommendations of practitioners and judicial and administrative magistrates, to frame the system. We have taken advantage of the opportunity offered by the directive to act in this direction. I express an opinion against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u416	Minister, what is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u417	I also express an unfavorable opinion. This amendment concerns a particularly important aspect of the bill. The problem raised is that, when transposing the directive, should it be possible to provide for a framework for the protection of the confidentiality of cases in all judicial and administrative proceedings? The Council of State, in its opinion of 15 March, invites national representation to extend the scope of Article 9 of the Directive to all judicial proceedings, as this would have the advantage of harmonising the procedures applicable before the judge and of strengthening the protection of the confidentiality of cases. I believe that the rapporteur's proposal is in the right direction, because it responds to a real need for legal certainty and makes it possible to strengthen the attractiveness of our judicial system. Finally, I repeat that there is no question of disproportionate and unjustified interference with the fundamental principles of civil and administrative procedure, to which I am, of course, very attached. The proposed law, which will be supplemented, on this aspect, by an implementing decree submitted to the Council of State, allows for an adjustment of the adversarial only to the extent that it is necessary to avoid the disclosure of documents which may contain a secret of cases and where such disclosure is not necessary for the exercise of the rights of the parties to the trial. A judicial review of proportionality will always be carried out by the judge hearing an application for protection of a document covered by secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u418	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u419	First of all, I would like to stress the "handicrafted" nature of this provision, which, however, deals with an important subject: the violation of the principle of adversariality. It is quite surprising that people can be tried without knowing the documents on file. The crafty nature of the proposal of the law therefore applies not only to the use of the accelerated procedure and the absence of an impact assessment, but also to the method of drawing up this provision, which you added at the last moment, after some hearings, although it was not originally planned. As regards such an important point as respect for the adversarial principle, this seems problematic to me. In addition, the rapporteur said that this provision was required unanimously by the judges. He has selective unanimity! At the unanimous request of the journalists, he did not listen so attentively, did not introduce any changes in the text, and did not defend derogations with the same fervour, the same go, the same enthusiasm and the same effectiveness as when it comes to a request from the magistrates. Finally, I was called an obsessive earlier, but last summer I would have liked to see a reform of the commercial courts rather than a reform of the councils of prud'hommes. In this regard, the President of the Republic has been very obsessive. With regard to the reform of the commercial courts, you always refer to the judge. In the present case, however, judges are not professional judges, but "du cru" employers, whose competence in the matter will be relatively limited and who may be somewhat biased when a dispute arises between an employee and an employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u420	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-27-O1169.u421	Next sitting, today, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law transposing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure; Discussion of the proposal for a law to simplify and better regulate the regime for the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted establishments. The meeting is adjourned.
