ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law and the proposal for an organic law by Mr Richard Ferrand and others concerning the fight against the manipulation of information (No 799, 990, 978; No 772, 974).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Culture, Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we have two very simple questions about this text on the manipulation of information. First, do we have to legislate? And if that is the case, are we absolutely certain that the benefits of the law far outweigh the excesses that it is likely to cause? By "drifts", I mean attacks on freedom of expression or trade, nothing less. To that question, I answer yes. Yes, because the news has shown that our democracies are colossals at the feet of clay in the face of massive misinformation companies. Yes, because the technologies at work make our legal arsenal ineffective, when it is not simply inoperative. Yes, because the purpose of this text is to prevent the insecurity of a national election. "Manipulation of information", a term that is so much more appropriate than "false information" to call this text, goes far beyond the more conventional framework of defamation or public insult to which we are accustomed. For, in reality, the author of the false information is not so much a question of the person who disseminates and propagates it. My deep conviction is that it is a priority to legislate to regulate the business practices of the platforms, and I stress the term "commercial". What is at issue at first, and this is where the misunderstanding around this text comes into play, as we have seen this afternoon, is not information stricto sensu, but that is what is meant by information – which is quite another thing. What is at stake here is the ability of citizens to distinguish between what is really information and what refers to promotional information content. What is at stake is that the work of a journalist is no longer on the same level as that of an operator whose objective is not to inform, but to convince by means that are not transparent. Should the law prohibit sponsored information content? No. This has never been mentioned. But should it force the platforms to reveal the identity of those who pay them to broadcast these content? It's obvious. Basically, what is at stake here is not censorship of information – nothing would be more terrible in the country of Albert London, Joseph Kessel and Émile Zola – but fair and fair information of citizens during the very specific period of the national elections. That being said, hell is paved with good intentions, and the real difficulties are just beginning. The first and most important of these is the attempt to define the concept of "false information". Not only is it worrying – not to say more – that Parliament is censoring what is true or not, but it is perfectly useless and even counterproductive in terms of the goals you pursue. How does this definition – and in particular the notions of verifiable elements and likelihood – strengthen the capacity of the judge to sanction failure to comply with transparency obligations or to observe the massive, artificial and bad faith nature of the dissemination of manipulated information? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Conversely, an extensive interpretation of this definition would certainly constitute a threat to freedom of expression. Therefore, what is the point of persisting in this path which clearly distorts the original intention of this text? My second concern concerns the role of the CSA – the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – as the real driving force behind reform. Interesting developments have been made in the committee, particularly with regard to its power of recommendation. But the most important thing is elsewhere. The CSA is entrusted with significant powers vis-à-vis operators under the influence of a foreign state. And who says strong powers, says strict legal framework. However, it must be noted that, as it stands, the text exposes the APF to significant difficulties of interpretation. I am thinking in particular of the notion of "damaging the sincerity of the vote", which is not only extremely difficult to prove, but in no way falls within its competence. This type of legal fragility is likely to render control ineffective. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI, LaREM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, my concern is less about the risk of infringement of freedom of expression, which has been reported on many benches in this House, but that a careful reading of the law makes it possible to dispel very much, than about the true effectiveness of these provisions. But in the face of a massive phenomenon that poses a challenge to democracy – and to ourselves, elected by the nation – that is only in its infancy, I am convinced that we must provide a strong response. This bill is probably not the panacea, nor the alpha and omega, but a more or less skilful attempt to combat the spread of misinformation, in any case an attempt that I cannot, personally, sweep away with a back of my hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u4	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u5	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against false information, against the manipulation of information, has become necessary in view of the many abuses that have occurred in recent electoral campaigns in our country. Technologies have evolved, and it is up to national representation to change texts as well. These manipulations, in addition to deceiving citizens, pose a risk to our democracies, which can only be held by the requirement of transparency, information and ethics that every player in society is capable of transmitting and disseminating. That is why journalistic and media ethics, and information in general, are essential to the proper functioning of our democratic institutions. They should be given the means to protect themselves, sometimes on their own. The mistrust that is often given to the French towards their media is largely overestimated if one tries to look the opposite way at the confidence they show in their regional and local press. The link of trust between citizens and the bodies that inform them should therefore be re-established. This link was distended by the advent of social networks, which lay their legitimacy on the massification of the dissemination of information, without it being able to be treated, editorialised or even simply verified. Several media are even today specialised in the dissemination of oriented information, often supported by foreign powers who use this soft power to extend their influence to interfere sometimes in the conduct of elections. The bills we are discussing today are in line with this. As we have said very explicitly in committee, we support this initiative, which aims to change the electoral code and is made necessary by the circumstances and new media actors. The Conseil d'État also recalled this in its opinion last April that "the limitation on the constitutional principles of freedom of trade and industry and freedom to undertake is not disproportionate to the general interest objective... thus pursued". The review in committee has also considerably changed the text to take account of the recommendations of the Council of State. The essential provisions are preserved, reinforced and framed: the creation of an infringement, the actions for interim measures or the duty of the platforms to cooperate. However, it is important to bear in mind the objective of efficiency that we must give to these devices so that they can be easily accessible if necessary. In view of the speed with which the judge must decide, it is necessary to grant him the necessary means. That is why we believe it is essential to entrust, in the context of a national electoral campaign, the sole court of great instance in Paris with the task of deciding on the actions that would be taken, in accordance with the original spirit of this bill. Indeed, this provision was clearly specified in the bill that was submitted to us in early spring. It was also important to provide a better framework for information that could be appealed during an election period. The new wording, stating that it is "of general interest" information content, seems to us to meet this requirement. The criminal response seems to us to be proportionate, leaving the necessary latitude for any democratic debate, for any expression, even an ideal not yet likely, and it is clear that the judge will be able to distinguish with information which is manifestly false and whose purpose is to harm or influence a vote. This is all the more so since the Commission's text now retains only the content of information "related to a debate of general interest", which is of importance. Finally, the discussions with the Ministry and in committee did not allow us to raise an answer to a question that we raised in the Committee on Laws, namely the extension of the arrangements to local elections, which sometimes give rise to the circulation of false information. We would like this subject to be taken into consideration at some point. There are no small and large elections; We are discussing the national elections here, but false information is likely to distract a local election.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u7	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u8	We hope in the future, when we have the first feedback on the implementation of the text, that we will be able to assess the relevance and the possibility of extending it to these elections. Creation of the infringement, reactivity of the judicial body, centralisation of the response, proportionality of this response, precise framework: in view of all these measures, as you have understood, we will vote enthusiastically on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u10	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u11	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, these two bills, which we are going to begin consideration of this evening, are intended to meet one imperative: to protect our democratic societies from the attempts to destabilise them. As a result of events in the United States or the United Kingdom, parliamentarians have considered it imperative to better guard against attempts by foreign entities to influence, sometimes conclusively, the foundations of our open societies. These attacks, which are more discreet, are not less effective, and if the dissemination of false news is nothing new, it has fatal consequences in our society today. The great law of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press already referred to false news. What is different today is the danger associated with the virtuality of the Internet and social networks, the unprecedented changes in digital technologies and, in particular, the rise of platforms; all of these factors give them a unique character. With the development of the Internet, increasingly numerous means of communication and digital media, it has become difficult, if not impossible, to have any control over their dissemination. Indeed, social networks allow the massive and rapid sharing of false information, without any reliable and immediate means of verification available to our citizens. Some media have engaged in the verification of information and, if necessary, the deconstruction of certain fake news and "intoxication". However, the problem is not so much to issue false information as to manipulate it for destabilization purposes at key times in democratic life. It is unacceptable, in a democratic State, to be subjected to such procedures. Indeed, this false information is the result of calibrated and concerted campaigns, sometimes led by hostile countries, which use the flaws of our rule of law to try to influence our democratic elections. It is by distinguishing fake news from news from real journalistic work that we can hope to restore confidence in our media, while protecting freedom of the press, as well as freedom of expression. That is why I would like to welcome the change in the title of the bill, which is now aimed at combating the "handling of information". The initiative you are taking is all the more essential because it is part of a climate of distrust towards our institutions. This text on false news indeed has the merit of recalling that information is at the heart of democracy, that journalistic work fulfils a duty of truth, of verification of facts, that it cannot be done without a precise ethical framework. Article 9a, which allows news agencies, press publishers, audiovisual communication publishers, as well as organisations representing journalists, to conclude cooperation agreements with online platforms in order to combat the dissemination of false information, is good news for our democratic life, for the recognition of the profession of journalist – which constitutes an additional responsibility for this profession in the exercise of its activity – for the strengthening of the ethics and transparency of online platforms, which will benefit their good development, and, here is the essential thing for citizens, who will benefit from greater reliability and traceability of content. I would also like to stress that the possibility for press and media companies to enter into cooperation agreements with platforms on combating false information makes the rapid progress on the establishment of neighbouring rights even more relevant. I would also like to welcome the addition of measures in committee to improve media education. We are convinced that media and information education is fundamental on this subject, more than any other. The fight against fake news and conspiracy theories requires pedagogy. The proposal for a law on the supervision of mobile phones in schools, adopted by our assembly this afternoon, also contains provisions to this effect. It is essential to raise awareness and educate young people about the detection of false news. The younger generations are the most connected to social networks, the most active, but also the most sensitive. That is why the introduction of digital education in schools is absolutely essential. Developing the critical minds of young people is the only way to fight the manipulation of false news on a lasting basis. "Education is to democracy what the flame is to lamp, it is to clarity," taught Émile de Girardin. However, we have some reservations and raise questions about certain provisions of the text. We recognize the urgent need to legislate on the manipulation of false news, especially when it is intended to interfere and destabilize our democratic regime; However, the subject is very complex, very technical and technological, I dare say, with regard to the mechanisms of social networks. It should be part of a global reflection on the accountability of platforms, which are not mere hosts but whose role is increasingly similar to that of a publisher. There is an awareness among these new actors of their social responsibility and the need to regulate more. In this sense, the topic of fake news should be the subject of further study and consultation. All the more so since harmonisation at European level is more necessary than ever on an issue far beyond our borders. In addition, the creation in Article 1 e rd' of a new interim procedure, opened only during election periods prior to elections of a national scale, which aims to instruct hosting companies or Internet service providers – ISPs – to stop the dissemination of false information from a good intention, but will have limited effectiveness. How can we ensure the effectiveness of this procedure, when we know that a content can, through the magic of virality, be shared several million times in a few hours? What is more, how can we ensure that its use is not diverted to influence a vote? The same article calls for more transparency for online platform operators, by requiring them to disclose to users the identity and quality of people paying them remuneration in return for the promotion of information content, as well as the corresponding amounts: why not apply it also outside election periods? False news is not broadcast only during election times, but on an ongoing basis, and that is why it is dangerous. They infuse lastingly, and reality is distorted and manipulated, in such a way that it is even more difficult to deconstruct the false. It would therefore be preferable for citizens to have access to this additional information at any time, without distinguishing between election periods and others. This is a very long-term work, a question of transparency, and the ability to give the right tools to our fellow citizens, who are primarily affected by misinformation. We will also propose to enrich the bill, with a view to better combating hateful, violent, discriminatory or racist statements, with the creation of a new obligation for platforms to appoint a legal representative, who would act as a reference in case of illegal activities. This would strengthen the relationship between competent public authorities and online platforms by improving existing cooperation arrangements. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, our group is, therefore, looking more favourably at this bill, which, however, would benefit from a more comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u14	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are, in a way, almost brutally confronted with the coffee industry, which has become globalised. And a form of panic is taking hold of states, which fear first of all for the stability of their regime and institutions. This is not the first time in our history that technology is shaking power and speeding it up. When Gutenberg invented printing and royal power understood the threat posed by this technology, which made it possible to reproduce seditious ideas infinitely, it was already too late to control it. Luther's new Bible will be reproduced in hundreds of thousands of copies and will lead to the Reformation. In the Enlightenment century, the spread of new scientific and philosophical ideas will spread very quickly. All these producers of a forbidden thought, which power would probably have called fake news, were served by a new technology that nothing or anyone had really anticipated. This debate is a history of time, technological time, education and the law. The time of education is important, because only education will eventually enlighten men and allow them to separate the right grain from the chalk. The time of education is a long time. It had to be learned that the local gazette was not the word of the gospel. It was necessary for every citizen to have the necessary filters in a country where the opinion press is largely installed. It will take time for our contemporaries not to gluttonize everything that the canvas gives them to read. Legislating on fake news amounts to seeking a balance between sanctions for those who issue and education for those who receive. The more we strengthen the decryption of false information by citizens, the less we will have to interfere in freedom of expression and freedom of the press. From this point of view, your text fails to find that balance. You are more concerned about sanctioning Fake News producers than about valuing and accompanying journalists with rigorous professional practices; you are thinking more about using platforms to track down the evildoer than about encouraging our children's education in discernment; You think more about deterrence through repression than about self-regulation of the profession, which is already under way. Let me also express a regret here: Fake news is not just wreaking havoc on our institutions or on our elections. Health is one of their favourite areas. It's a huge market: Health +magazine, for example, has eight million fans, drinking miracle remedies against obesity or cancer, without any medical bail. The law cannot deal with the fake news that threatens our elections and ignore those that sometimes threaten the lives of our fellow citizens. There is no question, in my remarks, of considering that your text would be groundless or illegitimate, far from it. Nor do I want to question your good faith when you say you do not want to violate freedom of the press or freedom of expression. And I even have the weakness to think that it is your prudence on this point that led you to produce a law first ineffective, or at least not as effective as you would have wished. But there's a question I don't care about, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, and I want to have a debate on it. Do you think that this law, if adopted, can be put in all hands and remain forever harmless? I don't believe it. This is the greatest danger. Your proposal, whatever the sincerity of your approach, carries with it the risk of serious drifts, endless litigation and much more ills than the remedies it aims to produce. If it does not want to undermine fundamental freedoms, it nevertheless makes it possible to do so by an ill-intentioned power. In this regard, we regret that this text does not establish a clear and unambiguous dike between those who manipulate or falsify information and those who are the honour of the press, that which is governed by precise rules and which must be protected at a time when it is threatened, including in certain democracies. This press is consubstantial of our democracy. And when power flirts with the idea of regulating a counter-power, it is one of the main pillars of our democracy that is potentially threatened in its freedom. The drifts are not a view of the mind, and from false information to the crime of opinion, there is only one step. From the police power entrusted to the CSA to the establishment of a media police, there is also only one step. As for the judge of interim orders, who is the judge of evidence, who can reasonably argue that he will be able, in 48 hours, to distinguish the true from the false? Who can seriously believe that an attack on the sincerity of an election can be assessed when it has not taken place? So, yes, this text will produce a legal framework, at best ineffective, at the worst dangerous. We must never give the French the illusion of acting, because it is an admission of devastating impotence. Nothing would be worse than a "fake legislation" to fight fake news. As you understand it, we will not play the sorcerer apprentices alongside you, nor will we endorse a text that will prove to be very quickly without effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u16	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u17	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam and Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this law does not come entirely by chance. It already has a history, which begins some time ago in the United States, where the term that we often use today was invented, but which is obviously not in the title of the bill. This story continued in the United Kingdom, touched France and spread everywhere. It concerns not only the dissemination of false news, but also the appropriation of personal data from each other, through media that manipulate information – I am obviously thinking here of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. It takes into account our new and different use of the information and the vectors that carry it; For the first time, this is the great novelty of the period, one can have a doubt about certain election results, because the information that accompanied them is not as clear as before. However, there have always been rumours, and all those who have an experience of electoral elections have always lived the night before the election with the secret anguish of finding in their mailbox the next day the felonous, shameful and anonymous leaflet that would change everything – but that did not change much. The concept of defamation already exists in the law, but things have changed. First of all, our information practice has evolved dramatically, and it is the social networks that inform and irrigate us. In addition, the current mistrust of information did not previously exist. It is not necessarily linked, moreover, to the emergence of new technologies and is due more to the fact that our society doubts itself, progress, its bodies and its elites, for probably justified reasons. All this means that information, even absurd, may not stop circulating on these social networks and be received as valid by many people. So, what's the difference? These social networks allow almost instant dissemination of information, and with one click, you can share something totally delusional with a few thousand people. There's a massification of the broadcast. Through our own Internet practices, we can be informed in a very unique and special way. These are the changes that have taken place. One of the previous speakers spoke of counter gossip, which remained at the counter, which was good. They could sometimes spread on the church square and touch some other nearby and friendly counters, but they didn't touch thousands or millions of people in a few hours. These new practices lead us to develop different protections in relation to the use of these technologies and their consequences for democracy. We are also being observed, and other attempts to regulate this false information have been deployed in our neighbours. They are not very satisfactory, for various reasons. They first led to a form of self-censorship of platforms and vectors, which tried to avoid problems for simple reasons: their business model is based on remuneration through advertising, which requires a hearing and which therefore requires to be roughly credible. There's something else, too. By the way we manage our data, we are sometimes watered with information that we did not ask for, but whose platform thinks we will like it. I'll talk to you later about the flat earth, but I don't want to deflower the subject... We have therefore decided to react by a new law, not to restrain or prohibit, but to stop the dissemination of this information. For this, we do not touch the author, but the vectors, to neutralize them. A number of measures are needed. First of all, managing the emergency and better treating the pre-election period – we will return to it. The judge will not be there to tell the truth, but to win over the evidence. Transparency, a duty of cooperation and education must also be ensured. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text is not a whim, but an expression of a new stage in our democratic life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u19	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President and rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, "My happiness is that you are happy, my joy is that you are happy," Napoleon Bonaparte wrote to Josephine. Are we looking for happiness tonight? Large debate. By amending the electoral code and adding to it the provisions presented by my colleague Balanant, you allow France to respond effectively, albeit limited to very specific times and cases, to interferences that disturb electoral campaigns. In addition to these provisions, the proposed ordinary law amends various sections of the Broadcasting Act 1986 and the Digital Economy Act 2004. Finally, and this is most important for our Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, the passage to committee has substantially amended the text to include several provisions on media education, public awareness and critical-minded training. We therefore welcome the strengthening of the powers of the APF, which is becoming an essential player in the regulation introduced by these bills. The duty of platforms and service providers to cooperate introduces more transparency on the jurisdictions that direct Internet users to specific content. The algorithms underlying the dissemination of these contents must be known to remove any suspicions about them. During the discussion, our group will propose several elements in order to clarify the expectations of this publicity of the rules of the algorithms. We also welcome the means offered to the APF, in cases where, as few as possible, various foreign actors would intervene directly or by means of faked means, in the conduct of our electoral operations. These measures take place in a global context of regulating the Internet and the possibilities it offers. It is unthinkable that such a space cannot in turn be regulated, in the best cases of itself, in the absence of such a space, by the intervention of the public authorities. However, special attention should be paid not to amalgamate the online independent press or news agencies with less virtuous platforms. Parliament's initiative on this subject is also part of the European follow-up to this subject. These regulatory initiatives seem to us to go in the right direction, provided that we do not misunderstand and misunderstand the means of achieving them. If these coercive measures are necessary, they must be accompanied by thorough and demanding information education, in particular for the younger generation, so that they can have the means to exercise their critical spirit on their own and not rely on the words of unbiased actors. In this way, we supported the rapporteur's amendments in committee; However, it will be necessary to ensure that they are properly implemented. On the other hand, we also want to take action, with a view to protecting and foresight, on the opportunities that modern technology offers us in the fight against and tracing false information. It seems to us – this is the subject of my colleague Latombe's amendment – that we could rely on blockchain technology to make it more efficient. Finally, I will insist on the duty of pedagogy to which the media themselves must adhere, and they already do so for many by developing innovative and didactic tools. As the minister has pointed out on several occasions, we must first trust the first concerned, journalists, in order to find ways to address these problems. The labeling of titles and press content proposed by the Minister seems to us to be a relevant means of highlighting the media that meet ethical and ethical rules governing journalistic practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u21	We're in the crazy house!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u22	For our part, we propose that this labelling be based on the expertise of a body such as the Joint Commission for Publications and News Agencies, which has certain know-how. Aid to the press is granted through this commission, which ensures that the titles receiving them are serious. Other initiatives are at work, which this House could study. Ladies and gentlemen, these legislative proposals, with all the limits they contain and which this exercise entails, are a necessary response to a new problem for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For our part, after completing them with educational and educational provisions, it seems to us that this text has found a balance that we have wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u23	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u24	I would like to tell you my embarrassment, my embarrassment, and above all my concern. From the last presidential election, it emerged – at least that is what some have said – that a foreign country, Russia not to name it, and the media it controls have done everything possible to influence the outcome of this election. We are told that it is not enough to disseminate false information, to misinformation. No one knows exactly what it refers to anymore, but it doesn't matter. However, it seems to me that Emmanuel Macron was elected and there is no evidence that the information from Russia Today or Sputnik, since it is about them, has weighed on the vote of our fellow citizens. In contrast, let me point out, to the criminal proceedings against François Fillon in the midst of the electoral campaign, which, on the other hand, masterfully served the candidate Macron... Let us continue, once again. Therefore, on the basis of this observation, you will agree, from a few parties taken, that we should take the necessary steps to ensure that our fellow citizens no longer have information before their innocent eyes, let us say, "allegations" "without verifiable elements that would make them credible". Lenin, since we are talking about Russia, explained that we must "force to be free" these poor masses who, decisively, understood nothing, and therefore needed to be put back on the right path. There is, basically, with this law, this same temptation to say, to decree, to impose, instead of these beneties of citizens, what is acceptable and what must be prohibited, what must be you... Elsewhere than here, we would denounce an unacceptable censorship... At home, I would be more willing to talk about a "hygienist" vision of information. We should, as a matter of urgency, cleanse, get rid of all these slags, twist our necks to all these lies. That's good intentions! But who will be responsible for sorting, cleaning up? Who will tell us what we have the right to say? But the state, of course, or the structures it has put in place, such as the CSA, which everyone knows is immune to pressure, impervious to the air of time and not the least politicized world. We smile at it, because lies, false information, bastards, there's been a lot of them all the time. And it is not because they are renamed "fake news" that we are dealing with a novelty that would require a new law. May I remind you that the Press Act of 1881 gives us the means to do so? Immediately from the Internet, the power of social networks, I will be told. But when, on the front page of all the televisions in the world, Colin Powell, on the rostrum of the United Nations, has been seen brazenly lying to justify what is to be called the invasion of Iraq, we wonder what is again to justify this bill. No, I don't want to put anyone in my hands whether it's my right to make an opinion. Now, that is what you are about to do, do not mind. If such a law came to the office of parliamentarians of a country pinned by Reporters Without Borders, everyone here would denounce a scheme to silence opponents, to stifle criticism. The establishment of a true police of thought. The difference with these authoritarian countries? There, it is in the name of public order or the national security of States that the press is muzzled. Here, it is in the name of morality or good feelings that one risks, or dreams of, criminalizing certain opinions. But with the blessing of Brussels, I agree! Is this not a report of 20 March 2015, followed by a resolution of the European Parliament of 14 October 2016, which called on the Member States "to actively combat, in a preventive and cooperative manner, hostile information operations on their territory"? Here we go. Mr. Macron, a good little soldier, hastened to meet the requirements of his Brussels masters. The most shocking ideas must be debated... in order to be better combated. It is not I who say it, but the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court which is so often quoted in this Chamber, but only when it goes in the desired direction... So, to reassure us, we will be told that these measures will only concern pre-election periods. But who guarantees it? If there is a lie and a big lie, why not impose the same rules tomorrow throughout the year? "Nothing is sacred. No idea, no opinion, no belief should escape criticism, derision, ridicule, humour, parody, caricature, counterfeiting," writes situationist philosopher Raoul Vaneigem. [[Applause on certain benches of non-attached Members]] This time, the one who was one of the inspirators of May 1968 is right. It's the price of freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u25	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u26	Fighting false information is an old story. Mr. Mélenchon drew on the sources of philosophy to tell us about it. Without going back to antiquity, we can mention the law of 17 February 1852 – under Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, not yet emperor but already President of the Republic – which will be taken up little or no further in the law of 29 July 1881. And a decree was even issued in 1935, under the leadership of Pierre Laval, to extend the ban on the dissemination of false information to question the morale of the troops in the press. It would be considered a false information, potentially prohibited. The debate is old. There is currently an arsenal of legal provisions that give a lot of work to the 17th Chamber of the Paris High Court. It acts, can make decisions quickly – in a presidential election, for example. She does it regularly, and in this room, many people are regulars of the courtrooms. Let us not allow ourselves to believe that we are poor, even if the subject is real. Increasingly, people are forming an opinion, not through the traditional processes of a political meeting, as we have known, but through the media. The quality of the information must therefore be questioned as to whether the public debate is truly fair and allows every citizen to form an opinion based on conflicting opinions. This is a reflection that the Republicans we are must lead. That is why we assume that we have taken advantage of the opportunity to engage in a discussion on the quality of information, a quality that economic models today call into question because of the permanent precariousness they impose on journalists. If we wanted to have this discussion in committee – a discussion that we will have again during the discussion of the amendments – it was not in order to defend any legislative rider. But it is not possible to debate the quality of information and the way in which the citizen is forming an opinion if we do not question the way in which opinion is produced. Anyone in this Chamber who has had contact with JRIs – image reporters – of an information channel knows very well that, during the day, they run between four and six subjects and that, arriving at all sweaters, they don't even know who they are talking to. They repeat to you the same question that they have already asked everyone, they do not work on the subject and they disseminate, I say here, information that is often false, because it is of poor quality. If you discuss with them, the first theme they address is the precariousness of their status. We are at the heart of the matter, if we really want our fellow citizens not to be manipulated by poor quality information. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among non-attached Members]] We must also ask ourselves about the too high concentration of the media in a few hands: is it normal for eight or nine people in France to own 80% of the media? Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this situation, you are totally powerless and even naivety guilty! If you want to discuss the quality of information, ask the question of media concentration! If I had the right – but the president of Rugy forbids me – I will show you the front page of the Parisian – I will not do it. I'm putting her away, but you saw her. It shows Mr. Alexandre Bompard, P.-D.G. of the Carrefour group, of which Mr Bernard Arnault is also a shareholder: or Mr Arnault is also the owner of the Parisien. While Mr Bompard has drawn up a plan for layoffs, the front page of the Parisien, which I do not have the right to show you, announces that this man is about to revolutionize large-scale distribution, forgetting to specify the public scandal which is the fact that this group is preparing a plan for layoffs when it has benefited from public money. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and among non-attached Members]] This false information manipulates the reader
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u28	The scandal is all the greater because this daily newspaper, which manipulates information and transforms the citizen into a benet to which one wants to impose choices, is one of the most read in the Paris region, and even in France. The proximity between the newspaper and the P.-D.G. of this large group is direct. What are we doing with regard to this scandal that I am referring to in this forum and which has been denounced by the daily journalists' society, which has judged this a shameful one? We have no tools to help journalists who are in such a situation. This subject is heavy: it must question us. We must act not to leave drafting alone in the face of the concentration of powers, which poses a real problem in terms of the manipulation of public opinion. He is stuffed with the soft to impose on him economic choices as much as evidence, while wilting those who challenge them. We are at the heart of a problem which, I repeat, is heavy and which has had a much more real influence on the election than sites like Sputnik or Russia Today, on which you tell us stories but which no one looks at. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among non-attached Members]] Why, on the contrary, do not evoke the influence of these newspapers which, while they are read on a mass scale, tell everything and anything? But as their ones have essentially favoured a candidate, you find them wonderful! This problem is real, but courage is needed to deal with it and try to solve it. I go further: what is false information? We are at the heart of the matter. You are cold in my back, ladies and gentlemen, when I read the bill! However, in order not to appear too icy, I prefer to laugh by quoting Article 1: the judge of interim orders may act "when facts constituting false information that alter the sincerity of the forthcoming election are artificially and massively disseminated through an online public communication service". How is it possible to judge that information is likely to call into question the sincerity of the vote before the election took place? How do we know in advance what will change it? I say at this rostrum that a fact, perhaps annoyance, may have a significant impact on the election, while things repeated a thousand times during the campaign will have none. We are totally disarmed to judge. But it's worse! Mrs Moutchou, the rapporteur, felt it was appropriate to clarify the definition of false information in Article 1: "Any allegation or imputation of a fact which lacks verifiable evidence that would make it plausible constitutes false information. I repeat: "Any allegation or imputation of a fact that has no verifiable evidence that would make it likely constitutes false information. » [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Once again, I prefer to take it with humour: with all due respect for the great spiritual convictions of our country, on the eve of an election that will take place on December 25, the KTO channel would be concerned if it sought to prove to those who look at it that a woman, whom I respect, gave birth to a child while keeping her virginity. Admit that we will find it hard to find such credible facts! I'm barely kidding. Put in the hands of a band of illuminates, this article can, tomorrow, allow a religion to be banned. I'm not laughing! Maybe you'll even do it! We're going into incredible turbulence! By definition, a spiritual conviction is made of revealed truths that cannot be proved. It is about respecting it and giving it freedom of expression. The text is an absolute baratin. I'm only half kidding...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u29	It's too much already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u30	... such a definition leads us to a hazy terrain. What, moreover, do the words "likely to make it conceivable" mean? I felt for a long time that a budget minister could own a bank account in Switzerland, especially since he had come to state before the national representative that he did not have one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u32	This problem has already been mentioned by a previous speaker: during the presidential election, a candidate, who was one of my political opponents, saw his campaign bombarded by a large number of media rehearsing to the envious that he had behaved criminally. This is François Fillon. A year later, no court decisions were issued. How would it be possible for a judge, within 48 hours, to rule on a situation which, a year later, was not the subject of a court decision because of the complexity of the case? However, everything that has been said about this candidate has destroyed his campaign and influenced the vote. This text does not give us much weapons to deal with real situations, in which the citizen finds himself balked like a freaking ball. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Finally, I would like to mention what profoundly changes the voter's behaviour in a presidential election: it is the polls that, while they are often widely distributed, are themselves subject to manufacturing secrets that are very difficult to obtain. We sought to do so with respect to candidate Mélenchon. Polls act as a matrix of opinion, they modify it by leading the voter to adopt voting strategies that rarely correspond to his or her beliefs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u34	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] The elector becomes a so-called strategist, because he has been convinced that the candidate for whom he wishes to vote will not be in the second round. We convince him, in order to prevent any candidate – follow my gaze – from voting absolutely for another candidate! These practices are constant. The proximity of survey institutes to the management of some newspapers should also be questioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u36	In order to sell paper, newspapers publish surveys that are subject to opaque adjustments, considered as manufacturing secrets by the survey institutes. The citizen should be armed by allowing him to seize the institutes at any time in order to know how they operate these reorganizations. How is it that the same candidate collects 15% of the voting intentions in the survey of one institute and more than 20% in the survey of another institute? Are these straightenings operated with a wet finger?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u37	I ask you to conclude, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among non-attached Members]] Your text doesn't say a word about these real subjects. It does not target the real targets, while disarming us to fight real problems. It goes so far as to place dangerous provisions in the hands of a possible totalitarian power. That is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u39	Nice wedding ring!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u40	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, rapporteur, rapporteur, for the second time today it is my honour to defend the position of the Republican Group on the bills before us. At the risk of disappointing some of them, I will restate with determination and constancy the same opposition of our group to these texts. I will come back, without trying to tire you – I will be less long than in the motion to reject beforehand – on some of the reasons that led us to consider the proposed scheme inadequate or ineffective, which could even contain a pernicious germ of infringement of freedom of opinion and expression. In response to comments made this afternoon, I would like to point out that there are, on the one hand, no highly motivated and committed democrats who, wishing to save democracy from massive misinformation and online manipulation of opinion, would call for the adoption of these texts, and, on the other hand, those who, because of their very severe criticism of the proposed provisions, should be regarded as complacent, defeated or resigned. These would not be up to the stakes, for lack of understanding that the mechanism is indispensable and that the majority, far from wishing to attack freedom of opinion and freedom of expression, is on the right side of the force. Things aren't that simple! We can be quite eager to take on board the possible threats to our democracy and the quality of public and political debate the massive operations of misinformation without, however, endorsing the mechanism that you propose. While the intentions of your text may be commendable, we still have the right to express reservations, particularly with regard to the attempt to define false information: after reading and rereading it, it seems to us very dangerous. Of course, the debate will lead to the correction of the debate in order to mitigate or improve it. However, these painstaking efforts are not such as to reassure us. Suffer, then, that we are making these reservations without being immediately placed in the camp of defeatists or those who refuse to attack the power of digital platforms and social networks in front of each other. Similarly, with regard to the APF, I repeat, the current wording of the bill provides for the assignment of expanded tasks and competencies that are presented in a sizable manner. Thus, when Article 4 states that it is in order to save the pluralistic character of the expression of the currents of thought and opinion that the CSA could reject a request for the conclusion of a convention, we feel like we are walking through a surrealistic universe, constricting ourselves to absurdity. The Group of the Republicans, after having debated it at length within it, does not want to take the risk of adding to the existing texts a new layer of legislation which is ineffective, redundant, inappropriate or even liable to infringe freedom of opinion and expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u42	It's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u43	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to point out that this text is intended to protect our democracy from attempts to manipulate information on the Internet and on television channels, especially during elections. Yes, false information disrupted the last election in France. It's a global phenomenon. The false information disrupted the Brexit referendum and affected not only Italy, but also the American elections. The European Commission has also taken up the subject: it has held a consultation on the subject, while a group of experts has produced a report proposing interesting lines of action, such as the drafting of a code of conduct or the development of a European network of research centres on the subject. I would also like to recall the thread of our work. We have carried out a long process of consultation with my fellow rapporteurs, the text manager, the Government and all relevant actors. This bill is not aimed at the perpetrators of false information, but at those who participate in its dissemination. Only information that is manifestly false, disseminated in a massive and automated manner, is targeted to alter an election and undermine the fundamental interests of the nation. Let us go into the heart of the subject, into the heart of this bill. First of all, it aims to combat the virtuality of false information on the Internet. To do this, we want to make the platforms more transparent about the amounts paid and the identity of sponsors of sponsored content. This will enable the judicial judge to remove information that may affect the smooth running of presidential elections and, more generally, national elections. It also aims to combat the dissemination of false information about foreign channels during an election period. The CSA will also be able to refer the matter to the judge in the audio-visual administrative proceedings, in order to suspend urgently a programme which does not have a convention. This request for suspension is extended to service distributors. Because false information circulates at all times, we will also impose an obligation on platforms to cooperate. They will have to implement measures on the transparency of algorithms, the certification of accounts and transparency on content promotion, as well as a clear orientation for media education. They will also be required to make public the means of combating false information and to file an annual statement thereon with the CSA. We want all actors – advertisers, platforms, news agencies, service distributors – to conclude interprofessional cooperation agreements to combat false information. Good practices already exist between platforms and the press: we just want them to grow, as part of an ethical practice of information on the Internet. I am thinking in particular of the Decodeurs, CrossCheck and CheckNews, to cite the best known services. Finally, this text proposes to strengthen media education, thanks to our rapporteur, Bruno Studer. Students' critical thinking needs to be sharpened, their ability to decrypt and analyse information strengthened. We must accompany our youth in this emancipation in the face of information. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude with one sentence: it is not the truth of the information we seek, but the truth of the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u45	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since this afternoon we have been discussing a proposal for a law on combating the manipulation of information. This is a necessary text, in a particular context on which we have come back several times this afternoon. The rumors are not new, but their ability to spread and remanence has reached an incredible level, which we had never known.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u47	Remanence? Don't forget the resilience!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u48	That rhymes, Mr. Chenu, but it's not the same idea at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u49	Novlangue is a package!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u50	Silence, Mr. Chenu!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u51	We usually don't hear you because you don't participate in the debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u52	Please, Mr. Chenu, let Mrs. Calvez speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u53	Today, everyone can create information and, through a variety of channels, disseminate it. The time criterion is the one that marks a break from the information – it is the time criterion that forces us to combat this spread of false information by using devices that will allow us to react as quickly as possible. Our country is based on a foundation of values dear to us: freedom of expression is one of them. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights defines it as follows: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which implies the right not to be disturbed for his opinions and the right to seek, receive and impart information and ideas, without frontiers, by any means of expression. Our democracy is based on this freedom and we will never hinder it. However, we must face the reality: the problem of mass misinformation, especially during election periods, endangers our democracy. There are many examples, more or less recent. False information can destabilize our democracy by manipulating public opinion. In the face of this danger, we must react. This text is therefore necessary, and it is with a common breath that we must carry it. The aim is to preserve freedom of expression while protecting those who receive the information. This bill is crucial because, at the time of digitalisation and the multiplication of platforms that affect billions of people – several billions for Facebook, 300 million for Twitter – news is fast going and it is very difficult to restore a truth when the false information has been disseminated everywhere and it has been relayed by all, sometimes by ourselves. This text will allow us to have an effective French legal arsenal to guarantee secure elections where everyone will have the freedom to express his ideas without being parasitized by erroneous information. Sometimes it is the media themselves who are fooled and relay completely false information. In the past, it was impossible to obtain a judicial decision quickly enough to guarantee freedom of conscience and the exercise of the right to vote in an informed manner. This bill allows for a faster and more effective response to false information. We are aware that we live in an open world and that French legislation must also be able to respond to threats from foreign media. We will give the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel the opportunity to suspend a programme if it destabilizes the institutions and endangers democratic exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u54	Anything! This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u55	More speed, more efficiency, but also more transparency: we empower platforms. These measures must be accompanied by media education. In this regard, I welcome the work of the rapporteur, who has made it possible to include in the text this principle of media education, to which a full title of the bill is enshrined. Yesterday, we saw the launch of a media decryption platform, which the minister spoke about earlier today. This is also what will enable us to combat false information or the manipulation of information. We could also understand manipulation from another angle: how is each of us able to manipulate the information that comes to him? How is he able to check them, to separate the right grain from the chalk? If this bill is a great step forward, it does not solve everything – we know that the law cannot solve everything! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To vote in favour of this bill is to give France and the French effective tools to preserve freedom of expression while protecting – I would like to emphasize – those who receive the information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u56	The joint general discussion is closed. The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u57	I thank all the speakers for this joint general discussion. The bill we are considering tonight is about restoring confidence, as Mrs Hai has rightly said. I see that many of you have a very constructive position. I have heard Mrs Kuster's reservations and questions about the effectiveness of certain provisions, but I have no doubt that our discussions will allow them to be lifted. I understand Mr Balanant's position on the local elections, but I believe that a good balance has been found. Mr Vuilletet, you rightly insisted on the issue of data and the democratic issue of their exploitation. This issue and the role of algorithms, which Mr Garcia spoke of in a very relevant way, will be discussed in the debates on the articles. Some of you have expressed in good faith fears about respect for fundamental freedoms. No, Mr. Saulignac, we're not interferons with press freedom. Again, this text is not intended to distinguish the true from the false,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u59	...but to fight the manipulation of information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u60	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u61	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] Mr. Dupont-Aignan, don't interrupt the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u62	Parliament is free!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u63	Censors!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u64	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u65	I hope that the discussion that will follow will be such as to remove your concerns. You have every reason to be reassured: this bill guarantees strict respect for all fundamental freedoms. It was submitted to the Council of State, the guarantor of public freedoms, which validated it. As I said to you, the text before you is balanced and effective. It has been amended and improved by the work in committee. I cannot let you say, Mrs Faucillon, that this text would be a smokescreen to mask what you call "the weakness of mainstream media analysis."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u66	That's the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u67	[[Rites and exclamations among non-registered MPs]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Your doubts about the independence of our country's media are worrying. Moreover, your comments on RFI, which would be a propaganda organ, are based on a form of relativism that I reject. RFI and France 24 defend democratic principles around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u68	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u69	You know, for most of you, my career and my former profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u70	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] Throughout my professional career as a publisher, I strongly defended freedom of expression. I published Salman Rushdie, who has been threatened with death for years by extremists. I published Asli Erdogan, imprisoned and threatened because of his writings. I have published Israeli and Palestinian authors. It is in my DNA to defend the right of everyone to express themselves, to defend a cause, to engage in a debate of ideas. [[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] [[Same movements]] In the same vein, now as Minister of Culture, I had to welcome the two photojournalists imprisoned in Turkey, Loup Bureau and Mathias Depardon, upon their return to France. Today I am indignant about the detention in Siberia of filmmaker Sentsov, who started a hunger strike that puts his days in danger, as well as the house arrest of filmmaker, director and director Kirill Serebrennikov.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u72	Are you going to mention a lot more people? We're in the National Assembly, though! It's indecent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u73	I continue this action before you today by defending this bill as Minister of Culture:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u74	You're not a Minister of Culture!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u75	Please, Mr. Chenu!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u76	...I protect freedom of expression and freedom of opinion from those who want to manipulate it. Mrs Ménard, you mentioned your embarrassment and embarrassment in front of this text. Rather, I want to talk to you about my own embarrassment and embarrassment when I see that you dare to use this text to table an amendment to remove the offence of obstructing the abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u77	I assume it perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This is not my conception of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u79	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u80	Many speakers are inscribed on rule 1. I ask them to scrupulously respect their speaking time, which is two minutes. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u81	After speaking in the general discussion, I would like to return to Article 1, which introduces several new provisions, starting with transparency obligations for online platform operators. Three months before the general elections, operators will therefore be required to inform their users of the identity of those who pay for the promotional information they distribute and the amounts they receive, provided that such content is of interest to a debate of general interest. Failure to fulfil these obligations is liable to a penalty of one year's imprisonment and a fine of 75,000 euros. I wonder very seriously, Madam Minister, about proportionality and, above all, the usefulness of the prison sentence. Indeed, almost all – if not all – of the platforms concerned escape de facto, because they are constituted as legal persons: therefore, what is the point? Another new provision is the possibility for any candidate, political party or person who has an interest in taking action to refer the case to the judge for the purpose of halting the mass, artificial and bad-faith dissemination of bad information. Will this procedure really be effective? In fact, 48 hours is a very short time to establish that the information meeting the criteria mentioned is likely to alter the sincerity of the vote, and is a judge alone capable of doing so, in a matter where freedom of opinion is at issue? I do not believe that, and the Republican Group will also table an amendment calling for collegiality. The main problem, however, in this article 1 – and we have already addressed it in the general discussion – is the definition that you give of false information: "any allegation or imputation of a fact without verifiable elements that would make it likely". It's hard to make more blurry, and therefore more dangerous. An extensive interpretation of this definition would be clearly...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u82	Thank you, ma'am, Kuster.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u83	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let me finish my sentence, Mr. President. We're just two of our band for the whole evening. It is all the more regrettable that it does not in any way strengthen the judge for interim measures, on the contrary. The Republican Group would therefore propose the deletion of paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u84	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u85	There are two of us. If we can't even...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u86	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Thank you, Mrs. Kuster.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u87	Censorship! The debate on freedom of expression is beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u88	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u89	To build his or her opinion, the elector must be able to rely on a reliable source, in which he or she can trust. Combating the manipulation of information is our common responsibility. False news, rumours or misinformation certainly have an impact on voters, but they also have an impact on the media and political actors by degrading the quality of the debate of ideas. When the debate is thus degraded, all sources are put on the same plane, from the newspaper article referenced to the subjective blog article. We are thus confronted with the circumvention of traditional media for the benefit of social networks and sharing platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u90	There's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u91	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] What a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u92	In these times of public distrust of our institutions, we, as political personnel, also have our share of responsibility in the way we relay the information that reaches us and include it in our arguments and positions. Like journalists, we also have a role in verifying and decrypting information. Thus, the quality of journalistic production, like that of our debates, is particularly important in the fight against the manipulation of information. It is therefore all the actors that must be mobilised. That is why regulatory bodies should also be included in this struggle, which has been done by extending the powers and tasks of the Higher Audiovisual Council. It was therefore essential to legislate, in order to define precisely the concept of false information and the framework within which it can be neutralized in a proportionate manner, in balance with respect for our freedom of expression. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The strength of this text is also to provide for educational measures in this field, because, especially during the electoral period, it is important that all have a free opinion, of course, but also an informed opinion, so that we can make our own choices and be masters of our destiny and that of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u93	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u94	We are talking about the electoral period, which is a sensitive period, if any, in the democratic life of a country. There are three things to this article. First, the definition of false information, which was a constant demand from all the interlocutors we met during the construction of this law. Then, a simple idea: the one that our fellow citizens are smart enough to understand what's behind sponsored content, as long as we tell them who pays and how many. This is a measure of truth and democratic transparency in the face of urgency. Finally, because this is the main point, there is the judge for interim measures. It's very simple: it's the judge of obviousness. It is therefore simply a question of asking him, when information is obviously false, to stop it: there is no witch hunt or procedure for knowing who is lying. And because the trial judge is the judge of the obvious, he will obviously go with great caution and it is the most clearly erroneous news that will be dealt with. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is therefore no reason to fantasize about this: it is a measure of public safety, because we must be able to stop it quickly. In view of all the elements we have had in the previous debates on the massification, speed and homothetic aspect of the dissemination of false information, this system seems to us to be balanced and remarkably bordered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u95	Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u96	In order to combat the dissemination of false information during an election period, the defamation attack is insufficient, as the perpetrator is difficult to identify. Their flow must therefore be interrupted in order to prevent its dissemination. That is why, as the President of the Republic expressed in his wishes to the press on 3 January, this text is timelyly proposed by our group. The purpose of this bill is to avoid, as far as possible, any infringement of the honesty of information, an objective of a constitutional nature during an election period and which I propose to you, together with several of my colleagues, to include in the law by an amendment tabled on the initiative of my colleague Cécile Muschotti, whom I will defend earlier. This text is therefore consistent with our legal environment, where freedom of expression is not a vain word. An efficient and coherent system must be in place. The definition of false information must be narrow enough to avoid inappropriate interpretation. In this regard, I welcome the fact that the Government has tabled, in article 1, an amendment which joins the amendment that I have tabled and which seeks to protect the sincerity of the vote by putting an end to a disorder linked to the mass and artificial dissemination of false information, which in itself is an infringement of the integrity of the democratic debate, without the need to describe the intention of the person or persons who participated in their propagation. The action brought before the civil court will enable the latter to order the de-listing of the site, the withdrawal of the content in question, as well as the prohibition of its posting online, the closing of the account of a user who has contributed to the dissemination of this content, or even the blocking of access to the Internet. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I welcome the fact that political parties and groups are explicitly recognized as competent to refer the matter to the judge. Their electoral role is thus strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u97	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u98	[[Protests and laughs on several benches of the LaREM group]] Émile Zola, when he published "I accuse...! To defend Dreyfus, was sentenced for defamation by a judge: this is what your policy is about. Indeed, you are going to give the judge the power to say what the truth is, whether or not it is false information. This debate in this House, at this late hour, is totally surreal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u99	What's surreal is to arrive so late!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u100	He's not a country that can dare do something like that. Mrs Nyssen, you should be ashamed of being the minister who has such a liberticide law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u101	You're the one who should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u102	Because who will decide how to apply this absurd definition of false information? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] In truth, you are an elected power over a permanent manipulation of a false democracy. And as the media that supported you, that made you, are no longer credible in opinion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u103	It's Dupont-Lajoie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u104	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] ... as young people don't even watch your television anymore, as people know very well that your journalists are totally bought by nine billionaires who hold the French press they go on the Internet. This is the reality that bothers you: that the French no longer trust you and no longer trust the media of the country: they go on the Internet or read the foreign press, because we learn more in a German or English newspaper than in a French newspaper.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u105	Ah! Do you like Europe now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u106	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] This mistrust bothers you, because you will not be able to impose your policy twice. For permanent state manipulation, you are very strong, but Internet forbids you. So you are inventing this scandalous law, but you should really remember that, in general, MPs and governments that violate freedom of expression in France end up very badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u107	Threats now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u108	You're the one who lost the election!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u109	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u110	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] When you arrived at Rue de Valois, Madam Minister, you stated in the newspaper Le Parisien that "the Ministry of Culture is not a control body" and, a year later, you are there, on this bench, with this little law badly crafted, ill-prepared, ill-thought, ill-written. You've become a kind of good-thinking talker. That's where you're at a year later! For if there is an authority that is not legitimate to control freedom of expression and to regulate it, it is the State. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] You want transparency for platforms, ladies and gentlemen? So go to the end: ask the newspapers that finance them. Ask who finances the debt of Mr. Drahi, the owner of BFM! Go on! Open Pandora's box! The truth is, you reveal your real face. You accept only one truth: yours. Only one broadcaster: the one who flatters you and closes the Twitter identity generation accounts. Only one ideology: the one that promotes interests and fights ideas. The role you assign to magistrates also demonstrates the contempt in which you hold them. At a time when you have detrigued the entire social system and this immense laissez-faire is everywhere your work, the only thing you want to control is freedoms. I know no bad information, no bad amendment or no bad proposal, ma'am: I know only free parliamentarians, people who use their freedom of expression. Yeah, he's a long way away, Charlie. He's dead, your Charlie! [[Applause among non-attached Members. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] And then, finally, since you're an editor, as Asterix said, they're all crazy and you, Françoise Nyssen, are their leader!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u111	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u112	[[Rires on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister of Information, you play very quietly with our great constitutional freedoms, and it must be said that you do so with a nonchalance that terrifies. You're dangerous people! Oh, yes, you're dangerous people! What you are doing today, you will carry it throughout your term of office. You believe that this is a small law that you are passing between laws that seem much more important to you, because they give money to your friends and to those who have made your campaigns, but it is precisely that law that will remain attached to your mandate and, in my opinion, will be an indelible stain on your careers, of which you are so proud. "The allegation or imputation of a fact that has no verifiable evidence that would make it likely": in itself, this formulation is already absolutely implausible. "Truely"? Are you going to ask a judge to see if something is "likely"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u113	He's already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u114	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] No, ma'am, he doesn't because defamation – but probably you don't know the subject – is the imputation of a specific fact that is likely to harm honour and consideration, and which, precisely, is the subject of an offer of evidence. This is something that can be proven or proved, but is not "likely."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u115	Is that Rivarol or Gringoire?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u116	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] Again, you speak lightly of very serious things. You are talking about the rapid removal of online content but, in reality, it is the equivalent of the seizure of a newspaper or book! Let me remind you that the judges no longer do so, as this breach is serious – and, above all, because your famous European Court of Human Rights – ECHR – precisely condemned France on the day that Dr.Gubler, however violating his obligations as a doctor, wrote a book about François Mitterrand and his health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u117	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u118	The whole gang!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u119	By listening to you, minister, we feel like we're coming back to the Department of Information and we can call you the Minister of ORTF. This bill, which is being debated this evening, is worrying, and when we see the MODEM Group's amendments to create "a quality label for publicly recognized information sites", we can even call it totally delusional. This debate is a constant madness. Even if we share the desire for reliable information in order to achieve a democratic exercise of quality, there is already a sufficient legal arsenal to combat slander, defamation or lies. With this text, you undermine the quality and plurality of information, which is a vital resource in a world today overconnected. This law will be incorporated into an administrative, media and digital ecosystem that is already highly liberticided, where senior officials do not hesitate to publicly rejoice on social networks with Facebook censorship. I will quote an example: Facebook has closed without reason the page of Identity Generation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u120	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u121	...but the most serious thing is that a prefect has rejoiced in this censorship. How far are we going to go with this thought police? [[Applause from non-attached Members]] This text is a restriction of fundamental freedoms. You are flouting the values of our democracy. Our ancestors fought for our freedom to act. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be the generation that will bury freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, so dear in our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u122	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u123	Like some of us, I found that with the text we are talking about this evening on freedom of expression during the major elections, our country, like most Western countries, had come down very low, as during periods of very great changes, the periods when the sky is getting lead, when the democrats are silent. But I had not imagined that we had fallen so low, Mr. President. I found out that this country no longer has any freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u124	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u125	This country, alas, has no more plurality of ideas. If you are not within the framework of good-thinking, you are immediately rejected and set aside! I would never have imagined that in my country, France, a country of human rights, where the people first declared themselves sovereign, there would not be a single communication body to question me for eight months! And yet I was one of the top 10 of the most well-known Members of Parliament, when I didn't have the most important budget, far from it! Small hands working cheaply at FIFG and in many survey institutes told me: "You know, sir, you've made 0.5 points in the polls, but you've never been surveyed! Your card never appeared in a poll! » If France does not realize the slope in which it is engaged, unfortunately, it will turn against it and against all those who trust us, beyond the seas and mountains. We're very sick on this level!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u127	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u128	I take the floor again on this Rule 1 to share with you a little anecdote that seems interesting to me. Earlier, during the general discussion, I stated the following: "If such a law came to the office of parliamentarians of a country pinned by Reporters Without Borders, everyone here would denounce a scheme to silence opponents, to stifle criticism, the establishment of a real thought police. » It didn't drag! LICRA's immediate reaction: "Emanuelle Ménard speaks of the police of thought. It's the same argument used every time by the far right. This is the title of Eric Delcroix's negationist book, condemned as such and former president of Rivarol's Association of Friends. And that, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is what your law will lead to: terror, which will lead to self-censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u129	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u130	Delicious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u131	[[Applause on a few benches of non-attached Members]] Mr Mélenchon quoted Robespierre earlier as a model of freedom of expression; This is indeed a topical issue. Do not dislike the LICRA, the thought police, it is the secret police of Océania in 1984, George Orwell's novel: I recommend you to read it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u132	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, recusing dubious information, questioning the work of some journalists, making suspicions about the interpretation of the news, is the freedom of everyone. Therefore, it is not necessary to amalgamate everything: it must be allowed to think differently and even to misthink. It is then the debate of ideas and opinions that will see the truth triumph and the opinion stand on the side of the true. Censorship a priori means dispossessing the people of their ability to judge, denying the plurality of points of view, removing the tools of discernment to say what to think and how to think. It is to admit the defeat of reflection in the face of emotion. I am against the case of Theo, which saw the immediate and unthinkable sanctification of an individual by almost the entire political and media class, and the pillory of police officers. A year and a half later, we see the result: fortunately, your law did not exist at that time! The legal arsenal is already sufficient to condemn lies, defamations, calls for murder or hatred: you propose here a liberbid, paranoid, infantilizing, at best useless, at the worst dangerous. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] In terms of freedoms, we are Voltaire, whose famous quotation defends the freedom to express contrary ideas, or we are Saint-Just, for which there must be no freedom for the enemies of freedom. At a time when the virtues of May 68 and the prohibition to ban, even if it is wrong, let's be Voltaire and not Saint-Just!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u134	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u135	I would like to recall some of the information that will help to avoid the insinuations that we heard earlier. First of all, first of all, there is freedom of information and the right to information, which we have defended, but there are also words such as incitement to racial hatred, xenophobic or sexist statements, which are condemned by law: we have an arsenal that is made for this. Secondly, we have read and studied the text very carefully – the rapporteur doubted it just now – as we do for all the legislation and for each amendment. You can check this information, including statistical information, by visiting the site mentioned by our colleague earlier. You will be able to compare the speeches made by Members of the French Parliament who have been unsolicited to the Assembly with those made by other Members. You will also see this in all the amendments we have tabled on Article 1, which we are contesting. This article sets up an action for interim relief before the civil court for pre-election and election periods. It defines false information extremely broadly, which has been mentioned several times. This article reinforces the transparency obligations of Internet platform operators on the identity and quality of the natural or legal person on whose behalf the platform acts. We consider that, for several reasons, this article goes against and challenges a number of democratic and civic freedoms. The quality of the false information will be determined by a magistrate, within an extremely short period of time which does not allow us to establish the evidence cited by our colleague. There is provision for the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of major jurisdiction, which does not allow the appeal to be considered. In addition, the interest in action is defined in an extremely broad way: anyone will therefore be able to refer the matter to the court. In our view, this is a complete break with fundamental freedoms. When great freedoms are reached, the guarantees of proportionality and necessity must be provided. This is not the case in your article and in your law: that is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u136	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u137	Cabu, Frédéric Boisseau, Franck Brinsolaro, Elsa Cayat, Charb, Honoré, Bernard Maris, Ahmed Merabet, Mustapha Ourrad, Michel Renaud, Tignous, Wolinski: they died because they were Charlie; But no, Charlie isn't dead and our democracy is alive. [[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] The bill that we are presenting today on behalf of the majority that I have the honour to belong to does not make it possible to decide what a state truth will be, but rather to guarantee the sincerity of the vote, to guarantee that we are in democracy – the same democracy that allows you, this evening, in this House, to insult the minister;... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims among non-registered MPs]] ... this same democracy that allows you to continue to dry up your obsessions and your identity theses, the same democracy that makes us continue to fight you in the ballot box, because it is in the ballot box that you have been beaten by the French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u138	You too, idiot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u139	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims among non-registered MPs]] ... who have made the choice, precisely, to refuse obscurantism and to refuse the theses that you defend; this democracy that we are defending tonight with this bill, and we will continue to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u140	But it sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u141	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u142	We must respect the dead: I do not understand why our colleague has just mentioned a list like this, as if it were the subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u143	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u144	... especially as it evokes the names of combat comrades of some of us. It is important that we remain within the framework of our exchange, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u145	That's unworthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u146	It's recovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR, NG and LaREM groups]] We believe that freedom of expression is precious: there is no free society without freedom of the press. However, I would like to reply to our colleagues in the National Front: do not take advantage of the opportunity to allow racist discourse to circulate freely. We don't agree! It is a good thing that groups such as Génération identitaire, violent, racist, which broadcast unacceptable comments on social networks, are sanctioned by the Republic: we do not agree with you on this matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u148	All you have to do is sue them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u149	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] That's not the point! You weaken our exchange by taking advantage of...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u150	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u151	You're for censoring those who don't think like you! You're like everybody else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u152	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u153	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] I say this clearly: I do not, like your colleague, Mrs Ménard, have an American conception... Yes, Mrs. Le Pen, you can speak, don't worry! Consecrate your energy to the minister! I do not have the same concept as Mrs Ménard, who has a very American conception of freedom of expression, that is to say, we can say everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u154	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u155	In the United States, the negationist discourse can move freely and one can even walk with a Nazi uniform on the streets: I do not agree with that! The Republic is not a neutral regime, indisputably! But once we've said that, let's go back to what constitutes our debate: this bill gives false information such a blurred definition – I won't repeat what I said in the gallery – that either it will be totally powerless or it will be potentially dangerous. Finally, it does not solve the problem of the construction of information, which is a central debate. I would like to finish on this point: in view of the concrete organisation of the debates – the question is always concrete, as the information is actually being produced, as the law is actually being produced – you are making a fake law, because we will not finish it: it will not be adopted, and you knew it when you decided to examine the text on mobile phones this morning! So you're not doing anything, really!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u157	We come to the amendments. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 23, 55 and 81, to the effect that Article 1 should be deleted. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 23. Freedom of expression is also the respect of the person who expresses himself. I therefore propose that we listen to the speaker. Mrs Ménard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u158	Thank you, Mr. President; You will notice that I did not come in Nazi uniform, do not dislike some. We're here: you're now grappling with the electoral code, trying to put a new layer of it back, if I may say so. The Electoral Code already provides, in article L. 97, that "Those who, with the help of false news, slanderous noises or other fraudulent manoeuvres, have surprised or hijacked votes, determined one or more voters to abstain from voting, will be punished with a prison term of one year and a fine of 15,000 euros. It seems pretty clear to me, but for you it is obviously not enough! Badly thought, ill-prepared, ill-written, this text has all the flaws, starting with your definition of false information, which has neither tail nor head. You free yourself from all the rules to define a new legal concept, which you want to be central to your bill. With this new definition, the most essential values enshrined in our Constitution are being flouted. Madam Minister, you mentioned in the general discussion the example of Mediapart, which would not have been covered by this law for its article on the financing of Nicolas Sarkozy's campaign by Libya – very well! But can you tell me whether it will now be necessary to ban the AFP, Le Monde and a few others, who announced false news about Arkadi Babchenko on 30 May, his death being quickly denied by his resurrection? [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Gradually, the net closes to the freedoms of the French. As was said earlier, hell is paved with good intentions: welcome to hell!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u159	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u160	With this amendment, we wish, in line with our general position on this text, namely rejection, to delete Article 1. As I said at length this afternoon, the inclusion in this Article 1st, which we are contesting the attempt to define what might be false information alone, is sufficient to justify our overall opposition to the entire proposed scheme. This amendment is therefore intended to remove the original provisions of the article, but also this particularly harmful, ineffective and dangerous definition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u161	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u162	As it stands, this bill has no interest. The Council of State, in its report, found this: "French law already contains several provisions aimed, in substance, at combating the dissemination of false information, following three distinct logics. First, the Freedom of the Press Act of 29 July 1881 contains, in its chapters IV and V, provisions for suppressing deliberately false, defamatory, offensive or provocative statements. (...) Secondly, the Electoral Code also contains provisions aimed at ensuring the smooth running of electoral campaigns by fighting both against the dissemination of false news – article L. 97 – and against commercial advertising for electoral propaganda purposes – article L. 52-1. Finally, the interim procedure provided for in Article 6 of the Law of 21 June 2004, as it allows for the cessation of damage resulting from the content of an online public communication service, may be used to stop the dissemination of false information, without prejudice to other emergency procedures in cases where such false information infringes the privacy of private life – Article 9 of the Civil Code. The interest of this proposal is therefore relative with regard to the protection of citizens against the spread of false news. It will, however, cause disproportionate harm, especially because of its Article 1: the definition of false information is extremely broad and vague. I have already explained how complex the very notion of information was and required debate, a multitude of points of view and the plurality of the media. That is why we call for the deletion of this article, in line with our position vis-à-vis this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u163	I call Mrs Naïma Moutchou, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u164	This is an unfavorable opinion of the committee, for several reasons. This law is necessary: it has been said and will be repeated as much as necessary. It is because today we are powerless to curb the phenomenon of false information, which is becoming more and more widespread in our democracies. False information is a real scourge. They undermine the trust of the citizen, at a time when he is supposed to express a free choice, that of voting. It is also useful because the existing legal arrangements, which you have recalled, are not sufficient and what I have heard on this is completely incorrect. You confuse false information, false news and defamation. The concept of "false news" was extremely particular: it could be said that it was a sub-category of false information, but, in the case of false news, the procedure could only be initiated by the public prosecutor and only in the case of a breach of the public peace, a concept strictly defined by the jurisprudence. In the area of false information, the criteria are much broader. Defamation itself is strictly defined by the 1881 law, which everyone today takes advantage of while its adoption has been preceded by extremely heated debates: it is an attack on someone's honour or consideration. We can very well imagine false information that does not concern a particular individual, for example in a referendum. [[Exclaims on IF benches and among non-attached MPs]] It happened in Britain before the one on Brexit. There was false information that Britain would pay twice as much to the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u165	And this will be pursued?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u166	But you can imagine! It's the political police!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u167	[[Exclaims on IF benches and among non-attached MPs]] This is an example of false information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u168	What a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u169	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u170	Terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u171	Please! Let the rapporteur speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u172	The mechanism that we are putting in place will allow not only candidates and political parties, but all voters to be brought to justice...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u173	This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u174	But we're in the Republic, in democracy! It's terrifying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u175	...in the name of democracy, absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u176	The gulag, too, was in the name of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u177	Please allow the rapporteur to speak. Then you can intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'd like to finish with a little more joy. I am pleased to hear everyone on these benches ardently defend press law and journalists. Bravo! I hope that you will continue to do so outside the Chamber, with clear words and even actions on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u179	Do I understand that this is an unfavorable opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u180	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u181	The Minister for Culture has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u182	So you are proposing to simply delete two tools that I also believe are essential to the purpose of the bill. You believe that these measures are likely to affect freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u183	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u184	I don't share your opinion. The obligation of transparency of sponsored content will allow the user to better understand why and at the initiative of whom he or she is exposed to specific information content. This will help spur the critical sense of citizens. Far from restricting freedom of expression, this offers a new guarantee that is part of the age-old movement to strengthen readers' information. The summons will enable the judicial judge, the guardian of freedoms, to order the withdrawal of false information intended to alter the electoral process. The conditions for the judge's intervention, which have been refined by the work in committee, are very precisely regulated. Only information that is manifestly false and disseminated artificially or automatically and massively is concerned. It is therefore the orchestrated campaigns of misinformation that are targeted here. There is no infringement of freedom of expression, nor of freedom of opinion. More generally, I would remind you that the text does not create any new prohibitions. The dissemination of false information has long been prohibited and criminalized when it disturbs public peace or alters the sincerity of an election.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u185	So what's the point of a new law?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u186	That will remain the case. This text aims only to better enforce the existing rules by adapting them to the new realities, characterized by the increasing weight of social networks...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u187	The free world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u188	... the virality of information and the development of sponsorship. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore obviously against the deletion amendments. Yes, Mr. Dupont-Aignan, democracy lives through recourse to the judge. I am proud, honourable Member, to support a bill that allows our fellow citizens to regain confidence in information on platforms. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Le Pen, it is true that your expertise is great when it comes to false information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u189	That's pathetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u190	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are proud to support a law that will be a landmark among the major laws for the defence of public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u191	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u192	Madam Minister, the draftswoman for an opinion speaking just before said the purpose of this text was to take a very interesting example: if the English voted in favour of Brexit, she explained, it was because they were misinformed. So you have to silence those who don't think like you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u193	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u194	You didn't listen to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u195	That is your goal! I will give you a very specific example. During the presidential campaign, I indicated that there were 500,000 posted workers in France. Immediately, the decoders in some newspapers who wanted to harm me declared impartially that I was a liar who was telling anything and that it was false information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u196	That's why you didn't win the presidential election!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u197	And then, curiously, after the presidential election, a great daily that dragged me into the mud acknowledged that this figure of 500,000 posted workers was confirmed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. With this law, my remarks would have been described as false information; A judge would have ruled against the appeal and you would have welcomed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u198	It's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u199	It is not the judges that we oppose. In fact, judges are not stupid: this law will be totally inapplicable, even if it survives the examination of the Constitutional Council. Judges do not have to intervene in the public debate; They don't have to replace the people's brains. It is up to citizens to form their own judgment on the basis of a plurality of information. You want to lock up the story; You want to lock the elections in a carcan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u200	That's the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u201	[[Applause on the benches of non-registrants]] But all this will be swept away and you will be discredited.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u202	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u203	Madam Minister, the only person who had a press body convicted of defamation during the presidential campaign was me. This press body was the AFP, precisely the one to which you want to entrust the task of deciding what will be true information or what will not be. They had committed an extremely serious defamation, which was automatically repeated – since you speak of automaticity – by all the newspapers, which, in reality, always disseminate the same information, always express the same vision with the same words and the same elements of language. It was massive, it was automated and it was very serious, since the National Front was accused of having something to do with Panama Papers, a scandal that splashed almost everyone, except us! We therefore attacked the AFP, but this sentence was pronounced too late. On this point, there may be something to do: to speed up procedures for defamation and insults. The Minister of Justice could order the prosecution to prosecute the newspapers that engage in defamation and to demand heavy sanctions against them. Indeed, freedom of the press must have as its counterpart the obligation for journalists to respect an ethics of verification of the facts and accusations they bear. [[Applause on the benches of non-registrants]] But who's gonna have an interest in acting? You told us, ma'am, that it would be enough to say that Brexit would cost this or that to be liable to prosecution. But who better act? Anyone who considers this to be a false information can refer the matter to a magistrate for a preliminary ruling? There is no such thing as an interest in acting, ma'am, you know that. You can see that it doesn't make any sense and these words amaze me from the lawyer you are.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u204	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u205	You referred to the example of the Catalan referendum, the rapporteur for an opinion, and it is true that referendum campaigns are moments in which quite binary arguments are opposed, since we must choose between the yes and the no. The 2005 referendum on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe – TEC – was my first political experience. The majority, the main political parties, the mainstream media told us that the rejection of the TCE would lead to a cataclysm, and they would spread false information about the risks that our country would face if the no prevailed. I did not at all want to refer this false information to the judge. On the other hand, I was pleased to find political parties, associations, trade unions that used collective intelligence by going to companies to explain texts, by protesting, by participating in major public debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u207	That's what allowed the no to be the majority. The problem is that this vote in favour of no has been flouted and that is why people are now rallying demagogic theses or disinteresting in politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u208	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u209	That is why we regret that, instead of resorting to this collective intelligence, we prefer to legislate, which is certainly an easy but dangerous way, in that it will again keep more and more people away from politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u210	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u211	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u212	I'm sorry for being vehement, Madam draftsman, but your comments on Brexit have icyed me. That law would somehow be there to captivate the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u213	Delicious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u214	This is really an opportunity to come back to 2005, as Elsa Faucillon has just done, and to refresh everyone's memory. If the no won, Nicolas Sarkozy said, it would be a "earthquake" for Europe. According to Pierre Lellouche, voting no would expose himself to a "risk of war" and, according to Jacques Delors, a victory of no would be a political "cataclysm" for France. For Jack Lang, more "friendly", if France voted no, she would be deprived of the Olympic Games. Ségolène Royal said that, if the no prevailed, she would be obliged to privatize the school canteens of Poitou-Charentes. [[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, here is the most beautiful one, my friends at MODEM: François Bayrou, who, with the poetry that characterizes him – I don't know what happened to him at that time – said: "I say it with all my fibers: if the no takes it away, it will rain more than forty days." - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no Isn't that beautiful? That's where we are! That's what was said! How should we respond to all this? Like you did: by a frank laugh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u215	[[Smile]] It's an opinion, not an information!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u216	That's what we did, while putting in the urn a good "No" newsletter to send them all walk! As you can see, my dear colleague, you are freezing! You come in and you want to ban people, talk, arguments? Do you think you're going to cut the whistle to all the people I've just mentioned, from Mr. Bayrou to Mr. Sarkozy, because of the nonsense they're talking about? It is the democratic debate that must be given priority, and you know that very well! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, Mr Bruno Bilde, Mr Sébastien Chenu, Mr Ludovic Pajot and Mrs Marine Le Pen applaud]] Be careful! I said that the content of this law is potentially liberticide but, listening to you, it really is! That is why we must vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u217	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u218	We were concerned by the rapporteur for opinion – but perhaps it was involuntary. Didn't she say that if anyone said that the Brexit would allow English growth to return strongly and that the media would resume their judgment, that would be likely to have an election cancelled? Minister, we need to be reassured, we need clarification, because the border with the crime of opinion is tenuous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u219	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u220	I would like to return for a moment to the summons. From now on, the judge intervenes a priori and not a posteriori, i.e. even before the election. We know the ex post intervention and we know that it is sometimes extremely complicated for the justice system to estimate whether a new leaflet distributed on the Sunday morning of the second round had an impact on the result of an election. But how will this same judge or the judge of interim orders judge consider that false information may have an impact on an election that did not take place? This is all the more complicated because all those who have worked seriously on the issue of false information claim that it is possible to circulate it without believing it, i.e. it is absolutely impossible to say with certainty how many people have subscribed to a false information that would have been broadcast a million times. I believe that it is extremely dangerous to involve the judge a priori when he was acting a posteriori.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u221	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u222	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u223	[[Smile]] You gave false information, Mr Corbière: François Bayrou said it would rain more than forty days; Since 2005, it has rained well over forty days! More seriously, you're shaking red rags...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u224	Oranges, in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u225	...and I have the impression that people as smart as you or Mrs. Le Pen have actually not read the text. Mrs. Le Pen, did you not say earlier that the minister could ask the prosecution to intervene? Mrs. Le Pen, you're a lawyer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u226	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u227	Obviously, you didn't understand the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u228	I understood the same thing as Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u229	This text proposes a number of novelties which have become necessary as a result of technological developments. It's still pretty simple to understand! Why are you shaking red rags? Public debate will always be allowed, political arroguties, sometimes misleading, sometimes "limits", will always be allowed, and we will always have great political debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u230	It's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u231	It is not this law that will change much from this point of view: on the other hand, it will protect from this uncontrollable information, which can distort the point of view of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u232	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u233	Mrs Le Pen has just made a perfect demonstration of the usefulness of the text that we are going to vote for. She brought the demonstration almost step by step: we had to go faster...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u234	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u235	... act more effectively, blocking information since it was later condemned. I forgot: what about the totally extravagant role you give to the AFP? What's that got to do with it? It must be a fake new. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have defined the nature of the information deleted by the trial judge, the obvious judge. Everything to which reference has been made is part of the democratic debate: the information is not contested because there is no real evidence. Let's stop shaking scarecrows at sparrows!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u236	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u237	What are we talking about? The possibility of referring to a judge, within a limited period, defined at three months, misleading, inaccurate, massively and artificially disseminated information. At the end of the interim proceedings conducted by the "emergency and evidence" judge, the judge will rule on a specific, detailed fact and may rule on the de-reference of the link to information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u238	It's hypergrave!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u239	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the debate, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u240	On identical amendments Nos 23, 55 and 81, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I shall now put to the vote identical amendments Nos 23, 55 and 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u241	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u242	The Government was not in favour of adding the concept of "false information" to article L. 97 of the Electoral Code, which had been introduced into the commission. This article of the electoral code has a repressive aim. It provides for criminal penalties for the perpetrators of false news and applies after the elections. The aim of section 1 of the bill is very different: it is to prevent the dissemination of false information which could undermine the sincerity of the vote. The addition of the words "false information" to article L.97 would have the effect of widening the scope of acts punishable by this provision, which is not desirable: this is not in line with the spirit of the text, which does not concern authors but the new methods of dissemination. That is why I propose that you delete this addition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u244	The commission wished to give a definition of false information and endorse it for a new criminal offence designed to punish the author of false information by supplementing the penalties provided for in article L. 97 of the Electoral Code. I explained at that time that the notion of false information is more inclusive than that of false news and that it may be useful to have the means to punish the perpetrators of false information and not just false news. The Government does not wish to provide the text with a penal component. The committee is against this idea, but, personally, I am prepared to follow the Government, on the understanding that we will be able to continue to discuss this issue within the framework of the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u245	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u246	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] An example: "Françoise Nyssen is Minister of Culture". Is that a fake new, a false information? If I say so during an election period, do I help alter the sincerity of the vote? Will they sue me?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u247	You're rude!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u248	At least respect the function!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u249	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] I have the right to consider that Françoise Nyssen is not a minister of culture, that she is a censor, that she is a speakerine, that she is something else but they will not send me to the dungeon for that! [[Mr Bruno Bilde, Mr Sébastien Chenu, Mr Ludovic Pajot and Mrs Marine Le Pen applaud]] You obviously want to punish me for using my freedom of expression during an election. Nevertheless, I think I will continue to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u250	And is Sébastien Chenu an MP?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u251	The rapporteur, Mr Bruno Studer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u252	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u253	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u254	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u255	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u256	Reminder of the Regulation on the basis of Article 58(1). I see that, around the benches of the non-registrants, geographical groupings are carried out that are heavy with meaning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u257	Censor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u258	From the beginning, this debate has gone beyond the usual democratic framework. That everyone does not agree with this text is absolutely normal. Whether a number of totally misleading arguments are expressed, it can also be understood – it only translates a relation to the truth that explains quite easily why you are so opposed to this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u259	What about the point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u260	[[Long exclamations among non-attached MPs]] There's one thing we can't tolerate: it's personal attacks with extreme relents...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u261	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u262	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims among non-registered MPs]] Please! Mr Bilde, Mr Chenu, Mr Pajot, you can ask for a point of order at the end of the debate, but shouting in the Chamber while a speaker has the floor is limited!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u263	Indeed! Stop these authoritarian methods!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Please, a little hold in the debates! Mr Gendre, you can continue, of course, with a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u265	From the moment that the debate no longer relates to the content of the text, but that it aims to reach the minister, his person, his skills, or even his past very clearly...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u266	She staged herself! That's crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u267	... with perfectly offensive accents, I consider that we are no longer in the normal democratic debate in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u268	You won't shut us up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u269	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I wanted to tell you, on behalf of the La République on the move, that we are particularly proud to be behind this minister, to be behind Françoise Nyssen. And the way you talk about it testifies to the fact that, obviously, you don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u270	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u271	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Chenu, be reassured, I am fully committed to your freedom of expression, even when you speak unworthy of your function.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u272	And you didn't say anything unworthy earlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u273	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 18. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u274	Article 1, paragraph 4, provides that any violation of the provisions of article L. 163-1 shall be punishable by one year's imprisonment. However, as I mentioned earlier in my speech on Article 1, the penalty of imprisonment, in addition to being inapplicable to incorporated operators, i.e. almost all, if not all, of the online platforms likely to be affected, is clearly disproportionate in respect of infringements involving transparency obligations. That is why this amendment is intended to abolish this one-year prison sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u275	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u276	My argument is the same as that of Mrs Kuster: since they are legal persons, why apply a prison sentence? I propose that you stay to a fine of 75,000 euros – and that is already a lot. It will be difficult to imprison those responsible for digital platforms. And everyone knows that a sentence of one year's imprisonment will be adjusted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u278	This amendment was rejected in committee. Since it is a legal person, obviously there can be no prison sentence. On the other hand, with regard to the quantum of the penalty, we have aligned ourselves with the penalty for advertising a candidate in an election.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u280	You are making this proposal in the interests of legal coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u281	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u282	However, it was also for the sake of legal consistency that the penalty was provided for. Indeed, it is the same penalty as already provided for in Article 6 of the Law for confidence in the digital economy of 2004, in the event of failure by technical intermediaries to comply with their duty of cooperation in the fight against illegal content. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, failing which I would ask for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u283	On the same amendments Nos 6, 8 and 24, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u284	The definition given in paragraph 7 has absolutely no meaning, either from a legal point of view or from a point of view of defending our public freedoms, to which we are attached. Everything you have said since then only exacerbates the concern about the whole of the banks that do not take part in the Republic on the move. What worries me even more is what you have said on the margins of this debate. Mrs Moutchou, when you were asked to whom this text was addressed, that is, who you were going to have condemned because he had misthought, or misspoke, you said: "The journalists will not be threatened by this mechanism, because they do not deliberately disseminate false information. When this happens, it's mistakes. So that's your thought! It is because journalists are unable to disseminate false information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u285	No, not the reporters!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u286	It's unfortunate, because I think you've been to the 17th room. However, journalists are sentenced almost every day for defamation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u287	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u288	This means that, every day, judges consider that they have not shown good faith and that they have achieved the honour and consideration of a whole range of people who, of course, will continue to try to defend themselves against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u289	You're confusing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u290	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] That you have this conception of things is quite worrying, because it greatly limits the field of those to whom you want to cut the whistle! In any case, I understand from your statement that it is not the journalists you want to touch, but your political opponents. Thank you for that confession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u291	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u292	This amendment, supported by the Republican Group as a whole, is intended to delete paragraph 7 of Article 1, which has already been much discussed and which has also been read repeatedly this afternoon and again at the beginning of the evening. It is intended to introduce an attempt to define what "false information" is. We felt in the Republican Group that the very text of this definition was such as to justify our total opposition to the entire legislative framework proposed to us. You said at the time of the presentation of this text, Madam Minister, that you were considering an evolution in the initial wording of this paragraph. The draftswoman herself seems to distance herself from the original wording. In any event, we intend to bring a fatal blow to this very pernicious paragraph, which has been widely said to be both ineffective, inoperative and therefore perfectly inappropriate in such a text. But it would be of great interest to me, Madam Minister, to know what the substance of your thinking is on the definition introduced by the Law Commission of the National Assembly, and how you think you are getting out of this waspier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u293	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u294	It is said that the key to the vault is the centrepiece of an arch, the one without which everything breaks its face. This is the room we need to worry about the most. That of your bill seems to be the definition you give of false information. There should therefore be no inaccuracies in this definition. However, by reading it carefully, even less is known what you mean by "false information". You claim to explain it in two lines, but this whole concept has only the meaning it is given. Is that a rumor? A destabilization operation during the election? No one knows. The door is open to multiple interpretations, and this law could not be applied without a great deal of arbitrariness. Besides, how do I apply it? I wish the judge the courage to check all the fake news! We make him responsible for telling the truth, and urgently. Too many uncertainties, too many interpretations, in short, it's artistic blur. It could certainly have been saved, because, as you know, there are already nearly 400 texts that regulate freedom of expression and, since 1850, an offence of false news. Then why persevere and want more and more laws? You who pride yourself on wanting to simplify, you are only creating confusion. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Finally, I sincerely believe that to pass this law is to encourage everyone to self-censorship, and that is what is most serious. It is an insidious end to freedom of expression, for from the moment that each of us delivers information that is neither likely nor readily demonstrable, it becomes false. Freedom of expression is dying, but democracy is alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u295	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u296	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion. Mrs. Le Pen, you're distorting everything I say and you're mixing it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u297	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u298	I want to discuss the substance, it's not a problem for me, but, please, let's get out of the caricature! I never spoke of bad faith or defamation. These are concepts completely unrelated to this text. You consider that journalists could knowingly disseminate false information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u299	It does indeed happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u300	That's your opinion, but I'm saying the opposite. And the mechanism I'm putting in place is on two levels. First, there is a general definition of false information and, second, a mechanism which concerns the judge for interim measures, in which a number of criteria are introduced. We have defined a first set of criteria, which we will return to, and we have made a new proposal, which we have discussed with the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u301	We don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u302	The problem is, you mix the two levels. We propose a general definition, because this definition of "false information" does not only apply to the judge for interim measures, but also, for example, to the duty of cooperation. What falls within the remit of the judge for interim measures is more precise and we add criteria. But under no circumstances are we in the bad faith of defamation, under no circumstances! This is a specific procedure. You would like to delete this paragraph, but if we wanted to introduce a definition, it was because all the people we interviewed told us that they wanted to know what false information was, what we were legislating about. This text concerns freedom of expression, which is a sacred freedom recognized by the highest authorities. When legislating on this subject, it must be done with caution. However, the definition allows us to set a precise framework and to know what we are talking about. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As the first definition has aroused criticism and concern, I will propose in a moment to refine it a little. But I repeat that the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u304	You propose to delete the definition of false information provided for in Article 1, paragraph 7, which was introduced during the examination of the text in committee. The Government does not believe that such a definition is necessary in order to ensure the proper functioning of the new mechanisms established by the law. However, I have heard Parliament's willingness to have a debate on this subject. The Government is not in favour of the definition contained in the text of the commission's work, but an amendment was tabled by Mrs. Moutchou, whom we will discuss very soon, which will improve this drafting. I therefore hope that a debate can take place on this new definition and I therefore give an opinion against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u305	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u306	I will of course vote for these amendments. The definition you are proposing in paragraph 7 is very broad, and the judge's action must be very quick. I would like to hear an explanation of how the judges of the referenda will deal with these issues. Imagine what will happen within three months of an election campaign – because if you vote laws, it's still to apply them! The judge will be either in arbitrariness or in impotence. And imagine the media impact of the decision of the judge of the referenda in the middle of a big debate – Brexit has been mentioned, but it is the same for the presidential election. In fact, with this bill, you advertise as extravagant as well as extraordinary what you call false information, but which are in fact only positions and opinions. The definition of the false information that you have retained is, moreover, akin to an opinion. In addition, you assign judges the duty to decide within 48 hours a problem that public opinion resolves through the election. You put them in an untenable situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u307	There is no request from a group to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u308	I asked for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u309	I'm balancing the debates, Mr. Chenu.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u310	We're not a band?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u311	I didn't say anything like that, Mr. Chenu. In accordance with the plurality of the debate, if more than two speakers are given the floor, it is customary to retain one speaker per group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u312	There are three amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u313	It didn't escape me. Obviously, no speaker from the other groups wishes to speak. Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u314	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u315	Yes, dear colleagues! We are discussing freedom of expression. That an unregistered Member of Parliament of the National Assembly speaks is nothing scandalous, that's even what we were elected for!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u316	It's so rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u317	As Mr Dupont-Aignan pointed out, how can a judge, within a particularly short period of time, verify the veracity of information? The famous "verifiable elements that make it plausible" are not necessarily immediately available. However, the text addresses a sensitive subject, that of electoral law. What will happen if a candidate is convicted in the middle of an election period for spreading false news and is successful on appeal? Meanwhile, his conviction would have had a considerable effect on the election. You can see that what you are proposing is absolutely implausible! Moreover, what would happen if this false information were true? We embark on an absolute delirium, in which you twist the right to try to bring it into an ideological delirium that does not correspond to the reality of electoral law or to that of the dissemination of information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u318	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u319	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 6, 8 and 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u320	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u321	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the preamble, I would like to say that we may at times disagree on certain points in the text, Madam Minister, but always with the respect and consideration that are due to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u323	Clearly, the definition of false information is a problem and a matter of debate. Some pretend to confuse opinion with false information. Mr Dupont-Aignan, if I say that you have an account in Switzerland, I do not express an opinion, but I may give false information – I hope so, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u324	It's mostly a libel!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u325	Don't pretend to confuse false information with freedom of expression to defend the possibility of saying everything and anything. Amendment No 162 is intended to clarify the definition of false information and, above all, to include the intentional nature of its dissemination. Indeed, one can perfectly disseminate a false information which one has received without being aware of its character of falseness, in good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u326	Good faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u327	That pleases you, Mrs. Le Pen, because sometimes a homicide can be linked to immigration. Perhaps it is – I hope – the transmission of false information, but it is not intentional!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u329	Unfavorable opinion. The proposed definition is interesting, but it is based on a confusion between false information and defamation. Indeed, it focuses on the violation of the honour or consideration of a political personality. In addition, it introduces the concept of bad faith into the definition. This criterion has a more direct place in the interim order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u330	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u331	It aims to better frame the definition of false information in order to better protect whistleblowers. Indeed, this proposal for a definition is too broad to secure the right to information. It places too much emphasis on the arbitrariness of the judge and may force the author of the information to reveal his sources. By incorporating, through the amendment, the concept of slander in the definition of false information, it is not diverted from the aim of punishing the intention to disseminate false information in order to divert ballots or incite abstention, while allowing whistleblowers to carry out their mission in a secure environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u333	I understand, dear colleague, that you are anxious to exempt whistleblowers from the device. However, I am against the wording of the amendment. It combines two clearly distinct notions, that of slanderous denunciation, which is an offence punishable by article L. 226-10 of the Criminal Code, and that of false information, which is of a different nature. The adverb "slanderously" unnecessarily complicates the drafting of the text. Finally, you refer to a articulation of the text with the situation of whistleblowers. I have already pointed out that bad faith should be included in the criteria listed in the writ if journalists and whistleblowers are to be clearly excluded from the scheme. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u334	The only ones that will never be worried are the journalists!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u336	Slander implies an intention to harm. However, the purpose of the interim measure is not to punish the author of false information, but to put an end to its dissemination if it is likely to alter the sincerity of a vote. It doesn't matter, therefore, what the author's intention is! Moreover, since slander is synonymous with defamation, the addition that you are proposing, honourable Member, tends to reduce the scope of the definition of false information to defamation alone. However, the purpose of the reference is to combat false information concerning a debate of general interest and not only those affecting the honour or consideration of a person. For all these reasons, the Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u337	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u338	Madam Minister, your answer, as well as the rejection of the amendment tabled by Mr Diard, shows that you intend to introduce censorship, which is a crime of opinion. That is what is very serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u339	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u340	The draftswoman has the floor to support Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u341	This is the famous amendment to rewrite the definition of false information. I have indeed taken note of some criticism of her. Initially, it was based on observations made by the Council of State and old jurisprudence. We must continue this work in committee, in conjunction with the Government. I would remind you that this is a strong demand from the practitioners we have heard. We need to set a framework and know what we're talking about. Indeed, while the term "false information" may seem simple and easy to use, in reality it is not. It raises several questions, which we have already mentioned. Is false information a lie? A simple mistake? Inaccuracy? Is it deliberate or not? Is it about a fact, an opinion or a value judgment? All this needs to be clarified. I therefore propose, for the time being, to bring the definition of false information closer to that of false news. The result would be wording that false information would consist of an "inaccurate or misleading" allegation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u343	You are proposing, Madam rapporteur, to amend the definition of false information introduced in committee. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the Government does not consider such a definition necessary. The notion of false information, like false news, already exists in our positive law. Judges do not need a legal definition to apply it. However, I have noted the wish of your House, ladies and gentlemen, to have a debate on this point. I also note that the proposed new wording is making a significant improvement. The reference in the draft adopted in committee to "verifiable elements that make information more likely" has led to misunderstanding. The expression "incorrect or misleading" proposed in the amendment seems to me to be much more appropriate. Moreover, this wording could have been further improved by limiting the scope of the definition to the reference only, by adding the adverb "obviously". In this way, we would avoid giving it too general a scope that could have unintended effects on the interpretation of other pieces of legislation. The parliamentary shuttle will make it possible to arrive at a more satisfactory drafting. For all these reasons, the Government relies on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u344	It's hard to define!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u345	It's a hard job!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u346	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u347	Before Mr Constance The Grip speaks on the substance of the amendment, I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 58(1). I'd like to know if the camera in front of me has a problem. Since the opening of the debates – since we are talking about fake news, so about information about the holding of our debates – it turns out that this camera systematically excludes from the image the bench where I am. As a result, no members of the group The Republicans don't appear in the picture, so much so that I'm part of Facebook and Twitter, where I said I'm in session. Of course, there are not many of us, but we are here. Is it possible that the camera, between the speeches, is filming the whole Chamber? Not only are photographers taking only a part of it, but now the benches of the group The Republicans are absent from the images!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u348	Nothing to do with the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u349	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Very sincerely, I ask the question. We are debating false news. I am referring, for my part, to a truncated debate whose images – currently broadcast on the Internet – and the report do not reveal at any time an elected member of the Republicans' group, unless we take the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u350	Get out of the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u351	The report is written!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u352	What's your problem, my colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u353	Please, dear colleague. Your point of order was very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u354	I was questioned by a member of La République en marche!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u355	This is outrageous! Our colleague has been insulted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u356	We are not going to argue that way. I have taken note of your point of order, Mrs Kuster. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u357	It seems to me to have heard a personal questioning from our colleague. I ask for a suspension of the sitting for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u358	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u359	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u360	Mr Chenu has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u361	I would like to make a point of order following what has just happened. It is the watery sprinkler syndrome, you see, Mr Legendre: by giving lessons of behaviour to each other, when a Member of Parliament from the running Republic group allows himself to insult or in any case to speak inappropriately against our colleague Brigitte Kuster, you are very embarrassed! Hold your troops!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u362	We didn't insult anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u363	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u364	In fact, you have made us a law that affects these fundamental freedoms, namely freedom of expression, and, beyond that, freedom of opinion itself. Since the beginning of our debates, the draftswoman for an opinion, you have explained to us that you have thought a lot, worked a lot, consulted a lot, studied a lot – I am passing on, and the best. Then, in the middle of the discussion, you come to tell us that no, to finish, the definition is null, it does not hold the road; and you hear it change! Then you're offering us something even worse than the first version. "Any allegation or imputation of a fact, whether inaccurate or misleading, constitutes false information." The draftswoman for an opinion, incorrect, is already a complicated concept for a magistrate. Inexact in relation to what, inaccurate for whom? Inexact for Libération journalists, inaccurate for current Values journalists? I'm not sure they have the same vision. And deceptive of what? What is emerging is a real law of censorship of opinions. There is no victim: as you explained earlier, unlike defamation, there is no need for a victim to apply to the judge. Any opinion that is considered inaccurate or misleading may be censored, just a few days from an election. As for the appeal, the appeal period, and other considerations that you deal with over the leg but which are essential to us, lawyers, you do not tell us. All of this shows, Madam Minister, that not only does your text not stand, but it is extremely dangerous. If it were adopted in a country that you consider authoritarian, you'd be screaming to death!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u365	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u366	I am surprised that you are becoming the minister of censorship – certainly with a smile and a lot of relaxation. What would we not hear if Erdogan were to vote for such a text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u367	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u368	I would like to quote Boileau: "What we understand is clearly stated, and the words to say so easily happen. In this debate, however, we get lost. You proposed to us, Madam draftsman, a first definition and then a second – and the minister tells you that this definition is still not appropriate for her, and that we must probably find a third one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u369	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u370	Amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u371	And yet we are at the heart of our discussion: what is false information? But why didn't you just vote for the referral back to committee? You could have agreed between yourself – excuse me for a little bit – and we could have understood what you're talking about! Admit that the confusion that prevails in this debate becomes a matter of concern. I'm going to repeat myself: let's not cover our face. It's midnight and quarter...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u372	False news! It's midnight twenty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u373	You know very well what the outcome of this session will be. That's what I was saying: there's no law to fight fake news; There's a fake law, a false law. All this is fake and will not lead to anything! You have opened a debate that will end in the greatest confusion, and that is no use to anyone! [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and on the benches of non-attached Members]] I repeat: at an early hour, we discover that the rapporteur for an opinion and the La République en marche group are still not in agreement with the Government on the definition of false information... That's where we are! Put the book back on the job, clarify things, and stop wasting time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u374	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u375	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I understand the rapporteur's attempts to clarify the subject: any false information does not deserve to be put into motion the apparatus of justice and its lightnings fall down. However, in trying to refine the definition, it seems to me, Madam rapporteur for an opinion, that you fall into tautology by proposing to write that false information is inaccurate information. After two months of effort, it is still very disappointing. If more detail is needed, let us go back to work. As it stands, this text is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u376	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u377	I also wish to mention our stupefaction astonished – words are missing, I admit, in the face of unpreparation, improvisation and amateurism in this House, on a crucial subject: the very definition of false news. The rapporteur's efforts are as laborious as they are not convincing. The minister, with convoluted formulas, eventually resorts to the wisdom of the Assembly. None of this is satisfactory, none of it is reassuring. We therefore remain in our original position: the blurry and confusion are so great that the simplest would have been either to reject the text or to refer it back to committee. Clearly, the work is far from complete. The Republican Group will vote against Amendment No 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u378	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u379	We are at the heart of the matter. Minister, I rarely agree with you, but you were entirely right to insist on the word "obviously": you know its importance for a court decision. You like literature, minister. If you read a book that tells the story of this session, which tells that under the French Republic, in the 21st century, we came to discuss, one night, a definition so vague to tackle, not defamation, but false news, rumors, false information, you would believe dream! The reader would think that this is not possible, that it is not France! The major parliamentary debates that led to the press laws should be resumed, and I have not had the time to do so. But I know that our elders have so well, so precisely defined the crime of defamation, it is because they were confirmed lawyers, and they knew that we were not playing with the law. They would never have accepted this surreal discussion and these vague definitions. [[Applause on the benches of non-attached Members]] If they are blurred, by the way, it is because behind there is a hidden motive, an objective. It is not possible to adopt such a broad definition: here we are drifting towards the crime of opinion, and this will be decided by a magistrate in 48 hours, on the eve of an important electoral deadline. It's pure madness! I invite my colleagues to forget their partisan affiliation and to ask themselves the question: is this text really worthy of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u380	On Amendment No 209, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u381	[[Ms. Laetitia Avia applauds]] Mrs Le Pen, it may be a new method of work for you, but my objective, I say calmly, is to arrive at a clear, coherent and effective text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u382	That's not clear at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u383	If it means to me going back or further, I will do it, and I will do it easily. You made two mistakes. You claim that the adjectives "incorrect" and "deceptive" are not clear: I refer you to Constitutional Council Decision No. 2016-572, in response to a priority question of constitutionality. You'll find her easily. As for opinions or judgments of value, they are excluded: I remind you that false information is a fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u384	I spend my life giving facts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u385	All this is extremely confused!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u386	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Corbière, you vehemently criticize this definition of false information; But you didn't make any proposals. I ask you the question: what is false information for you, not spiritually false as you described it, but legally? I am not a philosopher or minister of worship; I'm a member of Parliament. As such, I make the law. I note, moreover, that no one explains how the definition I propose would not work. I hear a priori and received ideas, but I hear nothing on the substance. Is it up to me, the new Member, to remind you of how Parliament works? It is during the debates that we make the law, and as long as it is not passed, we improve it, we enrich it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u387	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u388	You don't know where you're going!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u389	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Dupont-Aignan, I refer you to the debates in the 1881 law, which I know: they have been extremely heated, and the definition of defamation has only been adopted in the last few moments. I hope that we can have the same quality process in the discussions. But to do this, we will have to argue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u390	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u391	This point of order is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure, concerning the proper holding of debates. Madam draftsman, your inquiry is not serious. We spent an hour and a half earlier explaining in clear terms, I believe, why the notion of information is complex and it was possible to approach it in different ways. But perhaps these reflections had no value or substance for you. We have tabled amendments which propose different paths...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u392	As part of the point of order, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u393	Absolutely, Mr. President. We have been questioned, and for the proper conduct of the debates, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u394	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u395	I just answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u396	In this way, call France insoubted, reminding us to give, at midnight and a half, a definition of false information because you have been unable to formulate something that holds the road, it is not correct! The half hour we have left will not allow us to vote on these bills anyway, but if these processes continue, we will not be able to complete our debates tonight in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u397	They're amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u398	I put to the vote Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u399	All this is based on lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u400	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u401	This is, in a way, a fallback amendment. There is one point on which we are not convinced – I am placing myself on the ground on which you have been conducting the discussion from the beginning: if you judge that information, because it is widely disseminated, will alter the electoral behaviour and the citizen's relationship to information, why do you limit the mechanism to the electoral period? We know that opinion does not forge at a precise moment – otherwise it is very little to do with the conscience of the citizens. We are living examples of this: our opinion has been slowly forged, according to our readings. If you believe in the effectiveness of the measures that you propose – which we, for our part, question – why limit them to the election period? There's something weird about this, some kind of exceptional law. Some information would be very dangerous for democracy in the very small period of the electoral campaign but could circulate freely for the rest of the time. This choice suggests that you don't believe it yourself. However, you are in favour of setting up an instrument of exception at the very characteristic moment of election. In order to take your word for it, we propose in the amendment to delete the limitation on election periods only.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u403	Unfavorable opinion. We had considered this hypothesis, but the permanent nature of the measure would place additional obligations on the platforms, which would weaken the exception to the freedom to provide services in the name of the fight against false information. This risk could affect the effectiveness and sustainability of the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u405	On the merits, your proposal should not be accepted. The fact that the obligation applies only during an election period ensures that it is proportionate. The measure is thus in line with the objective of ensuring the sincerity of elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u406	That's a damn confession.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u407	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] As the Council of State has made very clear, if this obligation were to apply at all times, we would face censorship by the Constitutional Council or even by the Court of Justice of the European Union. For all these reasons, I am not in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u408	Well, that's it! This is the moment of truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u409	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u410	I come back to the amendment by the rapporteur for an opinion which we have just adopted. For months, the majority have been accused of being godillots. On this text, the rapporteur and Parliament are doing their work by amending the text and entering into a debate with the Government. That's a very good thing. I welcome the adoption of this amendment at the invitation of the rapporteur. With regard to Mr Corbière's amendment, it is indeed rather strange to limit it to a certain period – a few weeks – which is essential to democracy, namely the responsibility of the press, which is the corollary of freedom, and therefore the obligation not to disclose false information. This would mean that in normal times it would be acceptable to allow false information to flow without being able to initiate proceedings against this information, which is the cancer of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u411	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u412	Minister, this debate has many merits. I was very surprised to hear you say that if these provisions were applied throughout the year, the Constitutional Council and the Court of Justice would cancel them. I confess that this is a great element for our argumentation. Knowing a little about the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, I do not see how a provision that would not be constitutional at one time would become constitutional at another, especially just before the elections. This would mean that opinions or false information can be censored before the elections, and not throughout a legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u413	Censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u414	I would like you to clarify your thinking and explain why the Constitutional Council or the Court of Justice would censor this bill. This would be useful information for national representation and an interesting insight for your majority and the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u415	There's no answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u416	Can we get an answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u417	I have already given the floor to two speakers. It is desirable that we move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u418	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u419	The aim of this amendment is to extend the system to primary schools. In fact, open primary schools are now an integral part of the ways in which candidates are nominated for the presidential election, to such an extent that the Ministry of the Interior issued on 22 February 2016 a circular specifying how political parties organize their elections. This recognition attests to the importance of this democratic event, the outcome of which has an influence on the conduct of the forthcoming presidential elections. It is therefore essential that, for a period of one month before the day of voting, open primary schools benefit from the new guarantees of transparency introduced by the bill. It's a matter of logic and pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u421	Unfavorable notice, for two reasons. On the one hand, primary schools are internal consultations with parties that do not fall under the electoral code.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u422	It's about open primaries!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u423	On the other hand, we have chosen to limit the violations of the device to freedom of expression, both in time – three months – and in their scope. We do not wish to extend it to other types of elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u424	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u425	The question may arise very legitimately, but the drafters of the law have chosen to refer only to elections governed by the electoral code. This is not the case with primary elections, which are internal elections to political parties and organised by them under conditions that they freely determine. Let us give the envisaged device the time to prove its worth. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; If I didn't, I'd ask for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u426	Mr Dupont-Aignan has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u427	Through this point of order, under rule 58, paragraph 1, which deals with the conduct of the sitting, I would like to be able to obtain an answer from the minister to the question I asked earlier on the unconstitutionality of the bill. In a democracy like ours, this is a fundamental argument for the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u428	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u429	Madam Minister, you recalled that the authors of the bill did not wish to extend the scheme to primary schools, but we are here in Parliament to change the text and amend it if we deem it useful. Madam rapporteur, you gave me exactly the same answer as you did at the committee meeting, always with some bad faith, since you mention the closed primary when I speak of open primary. For the record, the Republican party's primaries were open: any elector on the lists of electors could participate. Do not answer the same thing as in committee, since I have already pointed out to you that the amendment concerns open primary schools – it is written black and white in my amendment. The purpose of the bill is to prevent a national election from being insinuated by large-scale fraudulent manipulation. I have been attentive from the beginning to the content of the text. I ask you to respond pragmatically and not – as you have just done – closed. You answer next to the question we ask. Primary schools have an impact on the presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u430	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u431	Mr. Dupont-Aignan, you who have conducted multiple electoral campaigns, I will not remind you that rules apply to the communication or expression of candidates in the media during an election period and not at other times. A balance must be struck between different constitutional values. This is why the measure is only applicable during the election period. I thought it was clear to you, but it gave me the opportunity to clarify it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u432	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u433	Mrs Kuster, I assure you that there is no bad faith on my part, but my answer will be the same. Open primary schools are elections organized internally by the parties and do not follow the same pattern as the elections covered by the text. Second, open primary schools are not provided for in the electoral code. Finally, even in the case of open primary schools, we remain on this ridge of restricting the categories of elections concerned in order to limit attacks on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u434	I call Mrs Naïma Moutchou, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u435	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u436	The rapporteur, Mr Bruno Studer, has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u437	In addition to the information on the identity of the content promoter and his remuneration, I believe it is essential to provide the user with fair, clear and transparent information on the use of his personal data as part of the promotion of information content related to a debate of general interest. The amendment supplements the obligations imposed on online platform operators during an election period in order to ensure that the user can, if he or she so wishes, know the reasons why he or she is the recipient of information content relating to a debate of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u438	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 173 and 185. I call Mrs Mette to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u439	The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the amounts of remuneration to be published concern information content relating to a debate of general interest, not all information content of any kind.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u440	I call Mr Eric Bothorel to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u441	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u442	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u443	Consideration of this amendment is an opportunity to highlight once again the quasi-schizophrenic nature of your approach: this bill tends to create new rules on the one hand and provides all the means to circumvent them on the other. We have a wonderful example here: it is envisaged that the remuneration threshold from which transparency obligations will apply will be specified by regulation. It is clear, however, that such a rule will circumvent the entire scheme: many fictitious intermediaries can be used to pay remuneration, and it will be sufficient for their amount to be set just below the threshold for the activity to remain non-public. It is therefore more relevant not to define a threshold below which information can remain "hidden" and beyond which it must be public. All the information in question, namely the identity of the sponsor of the sponsored information and the amount of the total remuneration paid, must be made known to the users. Exceptions to transparency generally lead to citizens' distrust of their elected officials, media and institutions. This amendment would make the duty of transparency truly effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u444	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u445	Only significant remuneration that exceeds a certain threshold set by decree will be subject to the new transparency obligations. You propose to remove this threshold. I am not in favour of this, for the sake of efficiency: from an operational point of view, it would introduce content whose visibility is not significant, without it better preventing the dissemination of false information. Moreover, this could be contrary to existing European law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u446	Are your two amendments, Nos 203 and 204, Mrs Moutchou, drafting?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u447	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u448	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u449	I would like to make this point on the basis of Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure. It concerns the organization and proper conduct of our debates. It is almost one hour minus ten, and obviously we will not conclude our consideration of this bill until the statutory time for the adjournment of the sitting. It seems that the majority has the opportunity to extend the sitting. For our part, we would like to know what you intend to do, so that we can make our arrangements, knowing that we will resume consideration of another text tomorrow morning. What will be the continuation of our discussions? It would be time to indicate whether we will continue our consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u450	[[Smile]] Yes, until the end of the night!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u451	I intend to suspend the debate at one hour, as is customary and as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u452	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u453	If I understood correctly – which is not easy given the substantial changes you make to this text as the debates progress, including the very definition of false information – your objective is actually to create a form of transparency, in order to know whether platforms would not be subject to financial influences, especially foreign ones. Stop me if I'm wrong, but it's very much like what President Putin decided a few months ago and made the entire French political class scream. In a law which also introduced a form of transparency, he had asked that non-governmental organizations, which obviously had a very important influence on the opinion as a result of their actions, should declare whether they themselves were financed by foreign funds. Again, you all considered, without exception, that it was a liberticide law. But you are demanding the same thing today. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] All right. I do not really have a problem with this, but in this case we must go to the end of transparency, which is the meaning of my amendment. Voters also have the right to know what funding, including state funding, is received by the media. It is not a question of questioning these financings, but of indicating what amount each media receives per year, and incidentally, what tax benefits it has received over the past 12 months. Because one sometimes learns at the turn of an article that some of them have benefited from tax advantages of which we are not aware. We even sometimes have to ask written questions to try to get answers. Go to the end of transparency, since this is your wish, and allow every Frenchman to form an opinion on the power that the political authority, which you represent, exercises precisely over the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u455	You propose to oblige the platforms to publish the public aid and the tax advantages they have received.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u456	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u457	Either, all the media. [["Ah! » among non-attached MPs]] On the one hand, this is not related to the purpose of the bill: it is not clear how these elements would promote the fight against false information. On the other hand, this is not possible because, with this amendment, you clearly infringe tax secrecy and question the freedom to undertake, defended by the Constitutional Council in its successive decisions on tax reporting. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u458	Cachotiers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u459	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u460	You propose to extend the transparency obligation on platforms by requiring them "to make public the amount of public aid and, where appropriate, the tax benefits received in the last 12 months". In this way, your amendment would require the platforms to make public the amount of aid and benefits that they themselves receive. It does not target the media, contrary to what you want. I would point out to you, Mrs. Le Pen, that the platforms do not receive public support. As for the direct aids received by the media – I am thinking in particular of the press publishers – they are already public and accessible in open format on the website of my ministry and on the website data.gouv.fr, which I invite you to consult. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u461	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u462	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u463	Madam Minister, the draftswoman for opinion, your answers clearly show that this text is of varying geometry. By using the traditional media that are at your service, you want to silence those who express different opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u464	The rapporteur, Mr Bruno Studer, has the floor to support Amendment No. 72, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u465	I request that the information referred to in paragraph 10 be aggregated into a register made available to the public electronically in an open format and regularly updated during the election period. The aim is to enable everyone to have an overview of the campaigns to promote information content related to a general interest debate commissioned during this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u466	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u467	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u468	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u469	This new addition proposed by the rapporteur is particularly welcome. It complements the content-based transparency provided for in the text with more comprehensive transparency. This will, for example, make it possible to find out what types of content are sponsored by a given organisation and, in this way, to decrypt the communication strategies of the actors. The register will allow for the aggregation of data from the different platforms, which can be very useful, and will have to be published in open format. I am very much in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u470	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u471	Paragraph 11 of Article 1 e provides: "The manner in which this Article is to be applied shall be defined by decree. When I read it, I wondered if it was, once again, a big joke. This seems unlikely to me: we are in this Chamber to vote for a text which is not final, since it will be specified by decree, even though it affects one of the greatest freedoms, freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u472	Who is dear to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u473	Are we going to give the Government a blank so that it can put in place a mechanism that many of us consider to be liberticide? [[Rires among non-attached MPs]] Let us not look at it, the Government will not define these modalities of implementation ex nihilo: it will simply rely on the definition of false information given in the text. For me, however, it is a source of great concern, since this definition has just changed three times in fifteen minutes and remains so imprecise that it leaves the door open to all sorts of interpretations. On the other hand, funding for online platforms will also be severely regulated, something that can be welcomed or not. The text states that only remuneration above a certain threshold will be made public. We can question the amount that will be set. Perhaps there will be, again, a vast hypocrisy. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] I therefore request the deletion of paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u474	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u475	You propose to delete the reference to the order to define the terms of application. Forgive me, but I don't understand: it's a technical mention of the most classic. In this case, the regulatory power will be empowered to determine how the information will have to be provided to the user and the remuneration made public. It is necessary to provide a point of hold for the decree in the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u476	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u477	Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u478	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u479	This debate is surreal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u480	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u481	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We are living surreal parliamentary hours, and the French are probably dismayed by what they see right now, or by what they will discover tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u482	Indeed, I am quite dismayed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u483	On the definition of false news, as Emmanuelle Ménard just pointed out, you changed your foot three times during the evening, and we are still not there. On the question of whether this text is constitutional or not, it is total silence: the minister is unable to respond to the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u484	A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u485	That is the reality: the minister did not respond. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Finally, we are probably not going to vote on this text tonight. When will its review be postponed? Where will we be tomorrow? Do you realize the unpreparation and amateurism that led you to this situation? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] A little respect! In this assembly, we knew committee chairs such as Patrick Bloche or Michèle Tabarot, who knew and defended their texts, ministers of culture who were fighting. Do you realize the level at which you have lowered the parliamentary debate, by your impreparation on this text, by the absolute nullity of your arguments and by your inability to define its very objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u486	Anti-parlementarism is a constant in you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u487	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] This debate is of total indigence. This evening, in addition to gaging freedom of expression or trying to do so, you have weakened Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u488	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have 157 amendments to consider. We are therefore not in a position to complete the discussion of the text within the time limits laid down in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u489	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u490	To answer your question, Mrs Obono, it will be up to the Conference of Presidents to set the conditions for further consideration of this bill and of the last text on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-07-O1260.u491	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further discussion of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
