ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal installations (No. 346, 819).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the application of the departmental arrangements for the reception of Travellers, addressed by this bill, cannot be swept away by a turn of hands without considering the concrete aspects. But it must also be the subject of unnecessary and demagogic polemics that serve only to cast away those who live a nomadic life. We regret from this point of view the irresponsible attitude of the Group of the Republicans, which, in committee, believed it was good to defend the presence in the text of articles which had no connection with the application of the departmental schemes or with the development of reception areas – which has been a legal obligation since 2000. Article 3 bis was particularly abject. It provided for the transfer of the caravan tax from 150 to 200 euros. As we know, beating the poorest and pointing at them is a second nature for some of our colleagues who sit on the right of this House. They are always more eager to attack the weak than to challenge the privileges of the powerful. It's not new. The committee rejected this article and those who, in the same spirit, favoured repression rather than constructive proposals. But the text remains unsatisfactory as it stands. He's not answering the emergency. That the Besson Act, passed in 2000, is still not implemented, should alarm the representatives of the nation we are. Would it take twenty years for a passed law to exercise its full force throughout the country? We need to take a closer look. The objectives set by these departmental plans are applied in only one fifth of the departments. In France, therefore, there is an uneven application of the provisions laid down by law. The cuts in the state's allocation to local and regional authorities, carried out fervently on the benches where those who have tabled this bill – but of which I note that they are absent tonight, with the exception of the rapporteur – are obviously not to blame. It is sometimes not possible for local and regional authorities to comply with their obligations; But this is especially the case for those who are working energetically to fail. It is a tautology to say it, but the most definitive impossibility is produced by those who did nothing. Should we recall here that applying the law is not a matter of taste or mood, but a republican obligation? Cases where the municipalities do not spare the reception areas for nomadic populations have a family look with those which the parliamentary group proposing this text knows well, sometimes of personal experience: the non-application of the SRU law, which obliges municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants to have at least 25% of HLM among the main residences by 2025. If I make this rapprochement, it is that the refusal to set up reception areas and the refusal to build HLM housing have their origin in the same hatred – the hatred of the poor. It is clear that a map of violations of the Travellers' Reception and Housing Act and the SRU Act would show strange similarities. As for the irresponsibility that underpins these shortcomings, it is easy to get an idea of its political colour! Among the worst students are nine major cities; Six of them are headed by LR mayors, two by various right-wing mayors and one by an IDU mayor. So little respect for the law on the part of a party that has arrogated our common name, the Republic, is unacceptable. The bill discussed in committee provided for the integration of reception areas in this 25% of HLM. That says a lot about the cynicism of some. Article 4 of the Act is the exact opposite of what should be done. It provides that a municipality that has fulfilled its obligations may prohibit parking outside the designated areas, even if the intercommunality has not complied with its obligations. It is the principle of solidarity that we believe should prevail, and not this kind of risky arrangements. But I also want to acknowledge the goodwill of some communities. A group of francilian communities, including the department in which I am elected, Val-de-Marne, have thus proposed concrete solutions for a regional policy to take charge of the 132 shanty towns in the territory of francilian. For the real problem is this: how can we accept that today there are slums in France? In Ivry-sur-Seine, in my constituency, two citizen collectives did a great job before the dismantling of one of these slums; A partnership between the State, the department and the commune subsequently led to the launch of an extensive housing integration programme for thirty-two families. I welcome the efforts of local and regional authorities who have shown humanity. I note that this is a model of cooperation between the State and local and regional authorities. This type of strategy must be generalised so that the existing law is effectively applied, rather than trying to unblock it in the context of a parliamentary niche. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Consideration must be given to people's life paths – the schooling of children, medical follow-up, family and social relations broken by constant displacement. All territories must participate. I would not want the Republicans, since they are called so, to forget the third principle of our motto: fraternity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u4	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the Minister for the availability and listening she has shown when she received me in the ministry with my colleagues from La République en marche, elected like myself from Haute-Savoie, for an exchange on Travellers. On March 9, during her visit to our department, you stated, Madam Minister, that you wanted to act through amendments in future bills. The parliamentary agenda provides us with an opportunity to debate this issue as we are studying this evening, as part of the parliamentary niche of the Republicans Group, a bill adopted by the Senate to combat the illegal facilities of Travellers. The Republic on the move, as we have always said, wants to be pragmatic. The difficulties, all over the country, are indisputable. That is why, during the examination in committee, we voted for measures aimed at providing concrete solutions to local elected representatives. This is the case with Article 1, which clarifies the powers of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation, the EPCIs, and the municipalities. I am also thinking of the creation of a flat-rate fine, which will make it possible to put an end to a harmful situation more quickly. Finally, we are in favour of re-establishing the mayor's police powers when the municipality has fulfilled its obligations in terms of reception; a mayor who has fulfilled his commitments must not be deprived of his power of expulsion on the ground that the EPCI to which he belongs has not fulfilled his obligations. My LR colleagues in Haute-Savoie spoke of clear cuts in committee and claimed that our majority had totally emptied of its substance a text supposedly indispensable on the ground. But what provisions are they talking about? Of those designed to ease the obligations of EPCIs of municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants? From the one that aims to increase penalties in case of illegal occupation? The one that aims to seize the vehicles? Let's be serious and look at reality in the face. First, it should be noted that only 20% of departmental schemes are complete, and more than 30% of permanent places are still missing. However, you want to relax the reception obligations for 45% of IBDs. As for the doubling of sentences, it would have no concrete effect. In 2016, 60 convictions were handed down, but only five sentences of imprisonment were imposed. Finally, the seizure of a vehicle used as a dwelling is, as you well know, contrary to the principle of inviolability of the home. Are these the measures you consider necessary and useful? Do you really think these are realistic measures to solve this unbearable problem of illegal occupation? The Commission's text is consistent. It will provide the municipalities with new means to put an end to an illegal situation. We will thus put an end to situations that we know are difficult to cope with, both by elected officials and by the inhabitants. The work carried out in committee has helped to avoid the inclusion in the law of stigmatizing, disproportionate, inconsistent and inapplicable measures. Here I greet my colleagues in the Law Committee, and in particular Didier Paris, who is responsible for the text for the La République group on the move. This subject, like all the others, deserves better, ladies and gentlemen, than a political display. This problem of the Travellers is a problem for many mayors, and we owe them a serious job, which brings real solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, the working Republic Group is of course open to debate and will support those provisions that will really facilitate the work of the mayors – it is a former mayor who tells you. On the other hand, we will oppose any creation of a right that would stigmatize Travellers and any provision that would only be a stick effect, that would be inapplicable, that would have no concrete effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u6	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, while the House is considering this proposal for a law on the reception of travellers and the fight against illegal installations, I will tell you here about real France and what the inhabitants and elected representatives of my constituency and, more broadly, the French are experiencing and suffering. Denain, Prouvy, Rouvignies, Maing, Escaudain: so many communes in my constituency that have to deal with the unacceptable and illegal behaviour of too many "travellers", as they are called poetically. In Denain, a city with 20,000 inhabitants, more than 1,500 itinerant Roma have settled; Last September, a vast network of social fraud – fraud against family benefits and the social system of the self-employed – was dismantled in this community. From stolen money, the French will never see the color again, because these offenders are insolvent. With application and determination, the parliamentarian whom I am obliged to constantly solicit public actors, including the Departmental Anti-Fraud Operational Committee, CODAF, in order to achieve results and maintain vigilance. I would also like to commend the remarkable work of the agents of the Family Allowance Fund in limiting fraud, even though the State does not take the measure of the phenomenon. I denounce the sleep merchants who rent in Denain more than a hundred unsanitary dwellings to these travelling populations, taking advantage of the guilty passivity, for many years, of the socialist municipality. In Prouvy and Rouvignies, it is commercial areas squatted by the Travellers that despair the inhabitants, turning a cohabitation suffered, forced by force, into a real nightmare. In Escaudain and Trith-Saint-Léger too, there are illegal facilities for travellers; mayors, communists, shout their anger, especially in vow ceremonies, but they are not heard by anyone. This is the same situation in Maing, whose mayor explained to me his dismay at an illegal settlement in his commune, denouncing the laissez-faire of the authorities. One company had to resolve to close for lack of security. The owner of the company, however, alerted the public authorities when a burning ram car had attacked it. The mayor of Maing told me that twenty-four jobs had been lost and that the company had been looted. Today, there is only an industrial wasteland, one more in the Northern Department. Yes, the sub-prefect had his hand shaking. This mayor, on whom the state so often relies, sees his efforts to promote the economic attractiveness of his commune ruined. These dramatic examples illustrate only part of the problems faced by Travellers in our territory. At the Hexagon level, it turns out that the situation is not tenable. I am elected to this House to denounce this situation. I am elected to this assembly to make it known that the French can no longer do so. I am elected to show a reality that some refuse to see in the face, preferring to turn their eyes away. Who else will tell these truths in this House? The newspaper Le Monde, whose inclinations are known, published last year an article entitled "In Denain, the difficult cohabitation with the Roma". I am therefore making myself the voice of all the municipalities who are victims to alert the public authorities. As a result of the situation, insecurity is reaching dramatic levels in the areas concerned, as in Trith-Saint-Léger. State laxism, incarnated by a sub-prefect who refused any intervention to restore order, created an air call for the installation of Travellers in my constituency, and probably everywhere else. Odilon Barrot, former vice-president of the Council of State, said about deconcentration, and therefore the prefects: "It is the same hammer that strikes, but the handle has been shortened". Today, unfortunately, the hammer no longer strikes. The bill does not address all the issues I have just outlined, but it reopens the debate. However, what is the point of an additional law when the hand of the state is so trembling? What is the point of an additional law when the existing law is not enforced? What is the point of an additional law if illegal facilities are not sanctioned? This is the limit of your proposal for a law: of course, you allow mayors who fulfil the reception obligations in their commune, if the EPCI of which it is part does not comply with its obligations, to apply to the prefect for a request to evacuate illegal camps. But if the prefect does not act, as is so often the case, what is the point of a new law? While the Senate had approved an increase in the mobile residence tax to better cover the expenses incurred by the local authorities, the majority abolished the scheme in committee. You let our compatriots suffer troubles of public order, every year more serious and violent, as the report attests. The majority considerably weakened the original text by reducing the chapter of the law on the strengthening of criminal sanctions to a grudge. You close your eyes to the difficulties by taking refuge in guilty good-thinking. The only positive point in the text is the creation of a flat-rate fine. It's very thin. That is why we will not vote for this text. The State will have to decide to take the problem seriously in order to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u8	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Law Committee, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, registered as President of the Senate on 18 May 2017, less than five months after the adoption of the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship, the bill on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal installations has been tabled – it must be said – without taking the necessary step back to appreciate the recent provisions. This bill is in fact an illustration of the carrot and stick technique. Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum, the authors regret that the Equality and Citizenship Act "substantially strengthened the rights of Travellers" and deplored the fact that it "did not provide any concrete solution to the difficulties encountered by local elected officials". [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] But, I fear, this new text will not provide local elected officials with more effective tools. On the other hand, it tends to stigmatize Travellers who represent nearly 300,000 people, one third of whom are sedentary, another third, nomad, and one third, semi-sedentary. The carrot therefore for the elected, but a carrot in the form of a mirage when you propose to exempt the communes of less than 5000 inhabitants belonging to an EPCI itself constituted only communes of less than 5000 inhabitants to create areas or land on its territory while these are imposed by the departmental scheme. The carrot still, when the text specifies that the departmental scheme cannot oblige the realization of areas or land in the territory of a commune "only if the average rate of occupancy of existing areas and land in the same geographical area of settlement, found in the last three years, is higher than a threshold defined by decree". Finally, the carrot, with the removal of the deposit procedure for municipalities or EPCIs failing to comply with their obligations, is tantamount to depriving the prefect of any means of pressure. But above all the stick, ladies and gentlemen, for these people who have chosen a way of life different from ours, and who are often victims of prejudice. According to a 2011 report by the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights, 10 per cent of the victims of racism in France are Travellers. The stick is still used in an outrageous manner when the locations of permanent reception areas are added to the list of elements assimilated to social rental housing to enable elected officials to achieve the construction objectives set by the SRU Act. In the face of mal-housing, such a disposition is insane. It will not reduce the requirement of 25 per cent social housing under the SRU Act, but rather avoid it. Finally, the stick, or rather the iron, with regard to sanctions in the event of an untitled occupation of land. I quote: the suspension of the driving licence for three years; the removal and retention of caravans or other vehicles used as housing, in total contradiction with the principle of non-confiscation of vehicles intended for housing; or, and much more insulting, the ban on residence while this penalty is reserved for certain serious offences. Your proposal is in contrast to the progressive laws adopted in recent years, in particular the one of 2017 which repeals several discriminatory provisions, following the decision of the Constitutional Council of 5 October 2012 declaring contrary to the Constitution the provisions of the Act of 3 January 1969 relating to the obligations to carry, as the case may be, a special circulation booklet, and to have the circulation documents targeted at regular intervals as well as the provisions requiring uninterrupted connection in the same municipality for more than three years. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest laws sought to address the direct or indirect inequalities that Travellers face, to resolve their difficulties in accessing certain goods and services – bank loans, current account openings, mobile phone contracts and Internet access – and to remove barriers to their access to employment, which is often incompatible with the need for flexibility and adaptability that nomadism can bring. They aimed to reduce discrimination related to their origin or way of life while ensuring the support of local elected officials. It is not desirable to go back to the positive developments of previous laws, and in particular of the one of 2017 which only asks to prove its ability to accompany the communes and the Travellers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, it would be just as damaging to forget that the quality of the guest is often the same as that of the guest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u11	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, the way of life of travelling or semi-sedentary travellers involves taking special care of the public authorities in order to offer them a facility, even temporary, in suitable spaces. While the number of Travellers is estimated at almost 300,000, unfortunately, there are persistent shortcomings in the establishment of reception areas, resulting in a massive installation on illegal sites, particularly in the context of major passageways. While the bill introduced by Senator Jean-Claude Carle provides concrete answers to strengthen support for local and regional authorities facing difficulties in their missions, it nevertheless seems necessary to recall that there is already comprehensive legislation on the reception of Travellers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u13	The proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u14	In addition, some of its provisions do not support the care and reception of constructive and suitable travellers. Some, which are designed to strengthen criminal sanctions or create disproportionate new penalties, are too repressive and, moreover – let us not hide it – would never be applied. Others do not address community issues related to the creation and development of reception areas. That is why we have profoundly amended the bill and deleted six of the eleven articles it contained, with the emphasis on a necessary clarification of the competences between local and regional authorities and their groupings. The text adopted by the Commission specifies the responsibility of the EPCIs for the implementation of reception areas, according to the objectives of the departmental reception scheme. It puts an end to delicate situations in which mayors whose commune is in line with the objectives of the departmental reception scheme were deprived of the power of special police parking. It also creates a mandatory information mechanism for the prefect at the major gatherings of Travellers, which will allow them to better anticipate these events. Finally, it provides the possibility of sanctioning the offence of unlawful occupation of land by means of a flat-rate fine. Our work in committee has resulted in a text that provides solutions to problems without resorting to non-applicable sanctions. I am convinced that it is not only by sanction that we will succeed in accompanying these people, in resolving the difficulties that the public authorities face in welcoming them and in facilitating their living together. On the contrary, it is necessary to think about sustainable and adapted solutions, by encouraging the expertise and mediation of specialized associations. These associations and companies, which I have been able to meet in my constituency, such as Gypsy Habitat, Travellers 37 or Vago, have a privileged connection with the Travellers despite the difficulties they themselves may experience. Recognition of this mediation through contracting with local and regional authorities and their groups is one of the solutions to include Travellers in public policies. Associations are also valuable relays to facilitate children's access to school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u15	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u16	In fact, despite their enrolment, too few children attend school. It is necessary to restore meaning by providing these associations with the means to act in the area of family support and the schooling of children. This social aim is essential in order to put an end to certain incivilities and to ensure respect for the rights and duties of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u17	It's completely out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u18	These associations also have a role to play in project management and habitat management. They can relay the needs of Travellers so that housing policy responds to the diversity of situations. Integrate family rental land into departmental schemes, promote the integration of this type of housing within the framework of the future bill on housing, development and digital development – ELAN –, reserve social housing for semi-sedentary people: these are all solutions to be considered. In conclusion, we will achieve better integration and cohabitation through better support and action in the areas of housing and schooling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u19	How can we talk about cohabitation in the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why we must value local associative action and encourage intercommunal solidarity in order to ensure an adequate and effective reception of Travellers in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u21	I call Ms. Virginie Duby-Muller, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u22	I thank all Members for their interventions. We all share the same view; Even Ms. Obono acknowledged that problems should not be underestimated. However, I regret the caricature we have been subjected to. Some speakers have criticized us for the stigmatization of Travellers. It wasn't. On the contrary, we want to avoid serving the Traveller community as a whole, especially its law-abiding and of course majority members. Other colleagues have criticized the overly repressive nature of this text, accusing us of using sticks. But it is because the current texts are not sufficiently repressive that the rules are not respected. That is why we wish to aggravate the sanctions. According to one speaker, this text does not fall within the category of progressive laws. In this regard, we have no lessons to learn. I consider myself a humanist. We are particularly open, but we believe that the laws must be respected. Mr Paris, you have challenged the assertion that elected officials do not have sufficient means to combat illegal occupation. However, you approve of the lump sum fine. I see a contradiction here. I want to congratulate you for keeping the lump sum fine. It is an operational tool expected by the law enforcement agencies as it will enable them to provide an immediate response in case of illegal installation. Madam Minister, I have been with Martial Saddier – I also greet Mr de La Verpillière and thank Mrs Auconie for her position in favour of this text – of the elected representatives who have participated in meetings in your ministry. During your visit to Saint-Julien-en-Genevois, with the same observation as we, you were committed to changing the law. On the other hand, you have advocated the use of two other legislative vehicles, namely the ELAN bill and a criminal justice bill. For our part, we wish to re-establish the text as it was voted by the Senate, because this version, which had been the subject, upstream, of the in-depth work of our fellow senators from the Republican Group and the Centralist Union Group, seems to us to be very balanced and provides real answers to the local elected representatives. In particular, the elected representatives of Annemasse - Les Voirons Agglomération, who recently issued a press release in view of the events that I mentioned this morning, but also the representatives of the Departmental Federation of Farmers' Unions and Young Farmers' Unions are waiting for this text to be voted on in its original version, the one adopted by the Senate, in order to respond to the current problems, which it is urgent to solve. You are making us look forward to future texts, but we do not yet have any details on the timetable for their consideration; the text on criminal justice could take place at the end of the year. This does not satisfy us because, as you know, the Traveller season has already begun, not only in Haute-Savoie, but in all the territories of our country. It is now necessary to stop being naive or angelic. I do not hide from you that I have approached this text in an open and constructive spirit. I want to re-establish the original version as it was adopted by the Senate because I want to move forward and because the elected representatives are really waiting. I would remind you that the incidents have multiplied and that we therefore need immediate answers. Now you have removed a large number of articles, six out of eleven, and you have emptied two more of their substance. The Law Commission has adopted a very minimalist version,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u23	Completely asepticated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u24	...what we are not satisfied with, as you can imagine. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This evening's debates, I look forward to developments, in particular on Article 5, which was, as you know, fundamental, since it provided that notice could concern the territory of the municipality or the EPCI in order to avoid a post-evacuation relocation. This would allow us to address the specific and real problem commonly referred to as "chip jumps". In this regard, my colleague Martial Saddier explained to you what happened in Bons-en-Chablais: schools are now being attacked in the context of the implementation of the Vigipirate Plan, which is extremely serious. I therefore appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to your responsibility. If an accident occurs tomorrow, your responsibility will be heavy, and I think our fellow citizens will not forget it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u25	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u26	I didn't plan to speak, but since I've been questioned, I'm doing it. This bill, which was introduced in the Senate, is in fact the result of the merger of two bills that had been tabled by Senators of Haute-Savoie. The Government will defend positions in the Assembly this evening that are identical to those it has taken in the Senate. I hope, of course, that the work will be completed and that the bill will be passed – I have no problem with that. I'm not looking at anyone. I have simply stated on several occasions that, in my view, there are two essential elements to try to deal with the problems that arise not only in Haute-Savoie but throughout France, where there are often difficulties with travellers. Having been mayor for twenty-five years, I know exactly how things are going; I don't need anyone to explain it to me. In the place I know, there is no seasonality of the phenomenon: Travellers live there all year round, as well as in the department of Indre-et-Loire. It must be measured that there are several categories of Travellers. In the department where I live, there are three valleys. In one of these valleys, Travellers travel in trailers drawn by horses, according to a traditional way of life, that of gypsies. In the other two valleys, the Loire and Cher valleys, travel is very frequent. In the Cher Valley, there is also a very old sedentarization of Travellers. It is therefore necessary to have tools to respond to these different situations, because we are dealing with a wide variety of populations: some are travelling all year round, others are sedentary, others have a very traditional way of life. In the case of sedentarization, the problems that arise do relate to housing. And it's not easy to get people from travel to sedentarization because, culturally, they're not used to living in the same place, and there's a lot of prevention with regard to the sedentarization of Travellers. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I don't do anything about it; I have mentioned legislative vehicles that seem interesting to me. I have said, and I repeat, that there will be a housing bill, called "ELAN," and that its review may be an opportunity to pass on smart measures to develop housing for Travellers. There will also be a criminal justice bill, and it may be interesting to develop means of sanction – because it also needs to be. Please, I listened to you without interrupting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u27	We're not in school!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u28	It's a complicated subject, I'm ready to recognize it and I know it from experience. As several speakers have said, we are seeking to produce a balanced text. I will respond as the amendments are discussed. Of course, the Government will accept the amendments it has supported in the Senate and will reject those that it has fought against.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u29	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u30	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u31	I call Mr Maxime Minot, the first speaker on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, some of you have not had the chance to be elected local and to see illegal occupation on the ground. They did not have the opportunity to see the distress of the elected officials and the inhabitants. They did not have the opportunity to feel helpless and to see, before their eyes, the defeat of republican authority. I have been one of them and I fully measure, like all my colleagues in the group. The Republicans, the urgency of giving mayors stronger legal means, while improving the reception of travellers in dignified conditions. For let us not deceive in battle: there will not be, on the one hand, the good ones and, on the other hand, the bad ones;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u33	Definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u34	... there is only a need to ensure that mayors are no longer continuously in the position of accused, even when faced with reprehensible actions, infrastructure degradation, wild facilities, or even violent behaviour. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Senate had come to a balanced and fair text. By dogmatism and faithful to the old demons of political politics that you claim to suppress, you have detrigued every measure and emptied of its substance a text which yet brought useful answers on a subject which, obviously, you ignore everything. This is a new illustration of your total lack of consideration for local elected officials. We invite you today, once again, to take your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u35	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is always surprising to hear lessons of this nature, when we are all elected representatives of the Republic, fully informed of the situation, thanks to our activities on the ground or the professions we have previously exercised, which have put us in contact with the realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u37	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u38	Have you been mayor?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u39	Please listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u40	The provisions of Article 1 could appear, at first glance, quite natural, since the general meaning of the article was in fact to clarify the competences by including in the Besson law – this had not yet been done – the new rules resulting in particular from the law of modernization of the territorial public action and affirmation of the metropolises – MAPTAM. We are quite right on this point, and we agree: we must do it. Unfortunately – and this is not just a detail in which the devil would have hidden himself – several provisions of article 1 were clearly problematic, simply because they were basically intended to interrupt the efforts undertaken by the communities, by the state...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u41	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u42	It's only for communities of communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u43	You didn't read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u44	... and, no doubt, also by the Travellers themselves, whom I know very well, to organise the way in which the State and local and regional authorities accept their homelessness. In particular, under one of these provisions – which I am not going to go back to because we raised it extensively during the general discussion – 45% of EPCIs might not have complied with departmental plans; I'd say we'd have stopped the effort. There was also a strange proposal to check how reception areas were used to set a rule for the creation of new areas. In reality, these areas are meant to be places of passage, not sedentarization. Many passages of article 1 should therefore be amended. This is the work that the Law Committee has done and that we are proposing that you validate this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u45	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u46	We can no longer ignore reality. On the ground, the situation is serious and untenable: we approach each day a little closer to the edge of the precipice, to the direct confrontation. On the ground, our fellow citizens see the impotence of the state, unable to enforce its own laws. One can take the pretext of unfinalized departmental schemes, reluctant municipalities or inappropriate areas; We can find everything to defend communities that sometimes behave in herds. The reality is there, and we often face acts that nothing can excuse. I understand that the most scandalous facts are that of a minority. So, what are we waiting for? That a majority imitates it? For the majority would be wrong not to engage in the same behaviour, since prosecution is non-existent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u48	In my constituency, a farmer who was trying to oppose an intrusion into his field and the destruction of his crops was beaten and sent to the hospital. There was no prosecution. A mayor of a municipality of 800 inhabitants who was trying to prevent the invasion of the football field was physically assaulted. No suit. Employees were prevented from working because their company's electricity had been diverted by Travellers. No suit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u49	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u50	Warehouses for sale were looted, vandalized and made unsold; their owner ended up with bills worth hundreds of thousands of euros. No suit. Residents whose residence had been invested by dozens of caravans were insulted and harassed; their garden has been transformed into sanitary facilities. No suit. I understand that when you live in the centre of Paris or a large city or in another area not affected by this phenomenon, you first worry about the application of the Besson law. But it does not give travellers the right to assault, vandalize, insult.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u51	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u52	The Besson law cannot solve all the problems. Many communities have settled in existing reception areas. Others do not want, for many reasons, to live together within the same space. Finally, most prefer bitumen in winter and grass in summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u53	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u54	When one of these situations arises, public or private property is invaded and, too often, degraded. Mr President, I am inscribed on each of the articles. If you will allow me to finish my remarks, I will no longer speak in this capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u55	The allotted time is two minutes, my dear colleague, and you have already exceeded it by almost thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u56	In that case, I will sequence my remarks and I will continue later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u57	I'm sorry, but the master of the clock doesn't always have the best role... Mr Patrice Verchère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u58	With regard to the reception, accommodation and parking of travellers, our right has been characterized, for almost thirty years, by the search for a balance between the rights and duties of everyone. Travellers have long been granted the right to be welcomed into the territory of the communes. The Besson Act obliges municipalities or intercommunal groups to make available to them reception areas and landscaped land, as part of a departmental scheme. In return, mayors, EPCI presidents and prefects have been given new powers to regulate the parking of mobile homes and to evacuate illegal camps. However, the balance remains precarious, as some testimonies have shown. It must be noted that illegal parking continues; They would even tend to multiply. However, local elected officials lack the means to put an end to these disturbances. Article 1 of the original draft law aims to clarify the division of duties and powers between municipalities and their groupings. Indeed, since the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – all EPCIs with own taxation have become competent in the planning, maintenance and management of areas and land intended for Travellers. This Article 1e proposed to prohibit the inclusion in the departmental scheme of communities of communes with no communes of less than 5000 inhabitants. It was thus intended to take better account of the situation of small communities of communes. While large urban centres often resist the idea of having to fulfil their reception obligations, the departmental schemes often provide, for convenience very often, for the installation of a reception area on the territory of a small commune even though this location is often a reason for underoccupation by Travellers. I would like to express my deep regret that the majority of LaREM and MODEM have removed the provisions that our colleague Virginie Duby-Muller proposed to exclude from the departmental scheme for the reception of Travellers the communities of communes with no communes of more than 5000 inhabitants. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. - Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Once again, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rural world and its specificities are not taken into account by the majority in March and MODEM, which is very regrettable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u59	That, really...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u60	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u61	I am speaking tonight because I am dismayed to see, once again, that we are organizing public impotence. The Senate text made progress in managing the reception of Travellers. Perhaps some of you, colleagues from La République on the march, were mayors some time ago, but I can assure you that as mayor, including in large cities – I was mayor of two districts in Marseilles and I am still elected to the city council – we have had enormous difficulties in managing the massive arrivals of Travellers. Every time we have opposed illegal intrusions, extremely costly damage to public property, occupation – including in dangerous areas – we have not been supported by law and by the authorities. Failure to act to ensure that the illegal occupation of these lands, these degradations, these threats – all that my colleagues have described perfectly – undermines public authority and gives rise to a "double standard" that does not lead to the proper reception of Travellers. Why a person who parkes where he or she does not have to receive a fine of 135 euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u62	No, no, it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u63	... and the invasion of a stadium, the destruction of changing rooms, the occupation of a parking lot that employees need does not entail anything, nor sanctions, nor prosecution, but the only expectation of departure scheduled by the Travellers themselves?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u65	This is the moment when we must take our fellow citizens seriously: they are angry when travellers settle near their homes, they are afraid of degradation and nothing is done against it! With the text of the Senate...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u66	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u67	... re-established by the amendments of my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller, you can ensure that this situation is stopped and that integration and the lives of the Travellers are at their best.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is not by being lax that we will improve things.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u70	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u71	That they must be desperate, the rural mayors, our compatriots, the farmers who hear you tonight, with these multiple language precautions and their romantic vision of things: the friendly guitar player at the corner of the fire, the rempailer of chairs with a golden smile... The reality is the situations described by our colleagues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u72	It's all the same! We get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u73	...it is, in my constituency, this woman and her daughter who tremble because their garden is squatted all year round by Travellers and they can't go anymore! So, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that in the Republic, we do not organize cohabitation between communities, as I heard. In the Republic, public order is stopped and resources are given, the leaders, the mayors, the elected are given weight! This text, on the other hand, does exactly the opposite. It's your philosophy that's on charge tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u74	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u75	I have heard our colleague speak of progress in the law: I consider it to be a regression that is being proposed to us. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I have the feeling that your remarks are a permanent lawsuit against Travellers. It is a cartoon of proposals aimed at exclusion and discrimination...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u76	It's a matter of respect for the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u77	... to give the means to circumvent the law, as it sometimes exists on the ground! You stigmatize some of us too when you talk about local elected officials. Now, you have in front of you an elected woman who has been mayor for ten years...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u78	No lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u79	You don't give much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u80	Please! No arrests!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. A regional, departmental, general councillor for eleven years. I know the field! No trial on this matter! For my part, I am proud to have these French among us, these French travellers, the Travellers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u82	We didn't say otherwise! This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u83	They bring us a lot with their culture, their history, their alternative way of life. The rule of law must certainly apply...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u84	It's always the same thing...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u85	...and I'm not saying it's a long, quiet river, but the right is there...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u86	It's not being applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u87	... we have a legal arsenal and if we have to legislate, I would prefer it to be on the prices of the host land of travellers, often prohibitive, who do not allow a proper installation of this name.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u88	Three euros a day!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u89	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and FI groups]] I'd rather we frame the installation possibilities! Too often, in fact, these lands are located between the sewage treatment plant, the motorway and the waste plant! That's what you have to frame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u91	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u92	I fully hear the minister and agree with her: there are several types of Traveller communities: itinerants, always part of the history of nomadism, sedentary, semi-sedentary, evangelists... This plurality must be taken into account. Article 1 deals with the obligations and powers of the municipalities and the EPCIs. We know the difficulties of managing the areas of the Travellers and the areas of great passage – because that is what is being discussed. We need to measure the complexity of administrative procedures following the adoption of a number of laws that have made them even more complex. I therefore call for a commitment by the Government to simplify these procedures so that communities can fulfil their obligations more easily and that the management of these areas is simpler. In addition, with regard to this way of opposing each other, I stress how problematic the management of areas is for both the Traveller community and the local residents and elected representatives. This must be taken into account without judging that either one is wrong or correct. Problems arise for both residents and elected officials and the Traveller community. We have to evaluate them rather than scarf us. We must succeed in finding the best solution so that everyone can promote living together. That must be our goal tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u93	I call Mr Remy Rebeyrotte to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u94	Every time I hear you, Mr. Chenu, I understand why I'm engaged in politics: not to think like you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u95	It's mutual!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u96	What a sense of opposition, rejection, stigmatization of one population vis-à-vis another!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u97	You were in the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u98	One observation: fellow mayors are in fact legitimately exasperated by the behaviour of certain families and communities of Travellers. We know the situation – I was mayor for seventeen years –: illegally occupied locations, neighbourhood and public order disturbances, degradations, etc. A pitfall to avoid – it wasn't necessarily acquired in advance when we started our work in committee: to cast reproach on all the Travellers. That is the risk. In these communities as in all others, people respect the rules of community life and republican institutions and others, who have no empathy, unfortunately do not respect much.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u99	There's the good guys and the bad guys!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u100	They harm the entire Traveller community. The commission has reworked to avoid amalgam, stigmatizing overreaction...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u101	It's all there...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u102	... and to strengthen existing mechanisms by strengthening the mayor's powers in the face of abuse, inappropriate behaviour or damage to property and persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u103	Long live it together!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u104	Hence the strengthening of the prior declarations for the occupation of large-scale land with the Prefect three months in advance, hence the specific maintenance of the mayor's power even when the intercommunality has direct responsibility and clarification of the competences, hence the creation of a flat-rate fine for illegal occupation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I think that the committee has done a good job of respecting law and diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u105	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u106	At this stage of our debate, I would like to point out – as the minister did before me, which I thank her for – that this bill came from the Senate, from senators, representatives of the French Republic, of course, but also from the territories. They have had the merit of involving a number of Members – we are part of them this evening – from completely different political backgrounds and territories. Never forget, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of you who are in their first term of office, that everything is recorded and transcribed word for word. There are, however, not many parliamentarians tonight to say that the reception of Travellers does not give rise to any problems in our country at all. On the contrary! We have all said calmly – I refer you once again to the origin of our parliamentary work – that the Republic must welcome them qualitatively and quantitatively, that this is not yet enough, but that it is also necessary to trust the elected representatives who engage in departmental schemes and reception areas and not to make life impossible for the people who live and live permanently on the spot, who work and who have economic activity on the edge of these areas. I would like to recall the whole of this context because – I say it very friendlyly to our colleagues in the majority – you will not train us on the ground of guilt in terms of words that we have not spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u107	They know how to do that! It's En Marche's specialty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u108	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally – I conclude, Mr President – be careful not to refuse everything and not to propose anything, particularly with regard to Article 1. Indeed, you cannot recognise that there is a problem with the NOTRE and MAPTAM laws while rejecting our amendments, without proposing anything. It is still on this ground that you bring us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u109	After these full explanations, I give the floor to Mr Sébastien Huyghe to support Amendment No 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u110	With this amendment, I propose that you change your paradigm. Our colleague Martial Saddier, in his excellent speech during the general discussion, pointed out that the Court of Auditors estimated the cost of a parking space for Travellers at an average of 35,000 euros throughout the country. We can wonder if it is up to society, and therefore the French, to finance this way of life, while public money is increasingly scarce and our local authorities are exsanguing... Should we be directly involved in the financing of equipment which, too often, does not even meet the expectations of travellers, which leads them to settle illegally on public or private land? I would add that land degradation makes an annual renovation almost mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u111	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u112	Since the law of 5 July 2000 is no longer adapted to the realities of the field, I propose the creation of a status of civil society real estate – SCI – intended as a crossing area. Each local urban planning plan – PLU – should necessarily include a non-constructible area designed to accommodate such an ICS. Travellers would then have the opportunity to invest within this area and organize themselves to occupy it in turn. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This would avoid both community-to-community incompatibilities, pharaoh investments and continuous degradation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u113	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u114	Thank you, my colleague, for this amendment. I agree with you on the cost of maintaining these areas, and I would like to refer to a circular from the Minister of the Interior dated April 10, 2017. He referred to incidents at a number of reception areas, which the prefects had warned him of, and which sometimes required the intervention of the police. The purpose of your amendment is to repeal the Besson Act and to create civil real estate companies that can acquire non-constructible land, which the municipalities should make available for the reception of Travellers. Even if I understand your position, as I have already told you in committee and in the general debate, I will defend a return to the original text, as it was presented in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u115	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u116	This initial version, which does not call into question the entire 2000 law, would, in my view, make it possible to combat illegal settlements more effectively. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u118	Mr President, your amendment provides for two things: the creation of an ICS status as a crossing area, on the one hand, and the repeal of the law of 5 July 2000, on the other. The purpose of the Traveller Reception and Housing Act was to meet an ancient vocation of parking for Travellers. It aimed to put an end to the tensions caused by unorganized parking. This law made the choice to make the communal block bear part of the investment and operating costs of the reception areas imposed by the departmental arrangements for the reception of Travellers, in order to reconcile the freedom of movement of Travellers with the legitimate concern of local elected officials regarding the respect of the places of settlement, as well as their financial constraints. The procedures put in place thus sought a balance between the rights and duties of everyone, as a number of you pointed out, and they provided concrete answers to the questions of the reception of travellers and illegal parking. Moreover, in the interests of legal certainty, it is not appropriate to repeal this relatively recent law, which has been amended several times since its entry into force. In this sense, the law of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic took the option of entrusting the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation with the competence in matters of reception areas for Travellers. It is therefore not appropriate, in our view, to reconsider this transfer of powers by entrusting the management of the reception and housing of Travellers to a real estate civil society. The solution that would be to create an ICS intended as a crossing area, with an obligation for the municipality to provide for a non-constructible area in their LRP, does not seem at all appropriate. Moreover, I am not sure that such a proposal would be welcomed by the mayors. Indeed, it will not allow the necessary areas and land to be built, and making the creation of a non-constructible zone compulsory could undermine the principle of equality. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable. Having said that, I believe – and I speak very openly about it because I have already spoken publicly on this subject on several occasions – that the standards for the development of reception areas for Travellers are too stringent, which leads to excessive expenditure. It should be possible to create equally efficient reception areas at a lower cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u119	Mr Huyghe, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u120	You can imagine, Mr President, that I did not expect my amendment to give rise to an overwhelming enthusiasm in our House. Rather, it was an appeal amendment, with a view to imagining other arrangements for the reception of Travellers in our territories. The creation of such ICS was a proposal and I suggest that we continue to think about it. Your answer, Madam Minister, shows in any case that it is necessary to move forward on the question of the financing of these areas, because their cost, which is extremely important, is absolutely not offset by the very small sums that are asked of the Travellers to park there. When our fellow citizens pay their housing tax or property tax, they are surprised that such areas, which require a significant investment from the community, are made available for small sums. I agree with you, minister, when you say that there is a need to develop lighter reception areas in terms of infrastructure, which would be cheaper for communities, and which could more effectively meet the expectations of Travellers. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u121	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u122	By this amendment, we propose that, in addition to the family rental land already provided for in the departmental arrangements for the reception of Travellers, non-rental family land should be provided for. Such land must provide simplified and less expensive access to basic public services, including the public education service, for travellers who have wished to engage in a residentialization process. In concrete terms, these family estates can be made available in a non-marketable manner by municipalities and intercommunalities in two distinct ways, in accordance with the rule of law: temporary authorization of the public domain free of charge and provision of the private domain. In addition, municipalities and intercommunalities will be able to set up reception contracts to ensure the proper integration of Travellers who have chosen a process of sedentarization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u124	I shall give an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, as I have already done in committee. While it is indeed necessary to take better account of the gradual sedentarisation of part of the Travellers, the family rental land provided by the local authorities, which is in addition to private land, is always in a social approach to the reception and support of these populations. Rents are very low and, in most cases, associations are responsible for managing them. Their logic is therefore not marketable, contrary to what you indicate in your summary statement. The payment of rent, which is low and non-dissuasive, is a form of commitment on the part of those who wish to benefit from the aid for sedentarisation. In addition, this recognition of family rental land already exists for semi-sdentaries and sedentaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u126	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u127	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u128	I agree, of course, with the group La République on the move, with the explanations that have just been given. I will only add that the purpose of this bill, unless I have misunderstood it, is certainly not to correct the departmental schemes. It is at the departmental level that this issue needs to be resolved. Let us leave this opportunity to the departments, let us leave it to them. It is not obvious to meet, as travelers' expectations for habitat change. We must let the territories manage this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u129	On the identical amendments Nos 12 and 37, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u130	The Besson Act, which neither this Senate bill nor our amendments call into question, is eighteen years old. We all agree that between 2000 and 2018, the situation has changed. It has also evolved from a regulatory and legislative point of view, and I thank all the speakers, starting with Mr Paris, for recognizing that the NOTRE law and the MAPTAM law have considerably changed the territorial organisation and the distribution of powers among the different communities – at least this is one point on which we can agree. In 2000, many of the territories hosting Travellers simply did not have a tax-based IEPCI, communities of municipalities, and there were very few communities of agglomerations. A substantial development of the law has taken place in this area, and it seems to me that we all agree that it is necessary to regularize the law on territorial organisation for the reception of travellers. This amendment has two parts. It aims, first, to restore paragraph 3, which has been deleted in the Committee on Laws, in order to clarify the division of powers between the municipalities and the EPCIs and to adapt the law in force to developments in intercommunality. Secondly, this amendment recalls that the Besson Act required municipalities with more than 5000 inhabitants to take part in the organisation of the reception of Travellers, and that we do not change this provision. If you reject our amendment, I would like to know why you yourself did not make proposals to adapt the reception of Travellers to the provisions of the NOTRE Act and the MAPTAM Act – because you recognize that there are problems. Why have you not tabled an amendment which, while settling the question once and for all, would allow you to assume in a transparent way that all the communes of France, whatever their size, will now have to participate in the reception of Travellers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u132	I call Mrs Duby-Muller, rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u133	As my colleague Martial Saddier pointed out, this amendment is intended to reinstate two provisions that appeared in the Senate text and were deleted in committee. Firstly, in a spirit of compromise, we propose that the installation of reception areas or sites cannot be carried out in the territories of the small communities of communes without their agreement – their agreement is not currently required. Secondly, we propose that the departmental scheme cannot provide for the creation of new areas if existing areas are under-used. I would point out that today only 70% of the places planned have been completed and that the biggest shortcomings do not come from the small communes, but from the large urban centres, particularly Île-de-France. Within these facilities, only 55 to 60 % of the places are actually occupied and the Court of Auditors, in its 2017 report, points out that the increase in the number of places in the reception or transit areas is therefore not the only solution to be considered. The law in force is based on an over-quantitative, unproven vision that does not meet the expectations of travellers or the means of communities. That is why we wish, with this amendment, to better regulate the obligations imposed on them when solutions already exist. I would point out that the committee has delivered an opinion against these amendments, on which I am of course in favour in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u135	Unfavorable opinion, with conviction. To exempt municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants from the obligation to participate in the policy of welcoming Travellers – unless they belong to an EPCI with at least one municipality above this threshold – and to take into account the occupancy rate of accommodation existing in the same geographical area in order to determine the location of the reception areas is to ignore the reality. In fact, I do not understand this amendment well. It is not a question of setting up reception areas for Travellers in all communes with less than 5000 inhabitants! There is a scheme, discussed at the departmental level, which sets the number of reception areas for each intercommunality. As a reminder, communities of communes with only communes of less than 5000 inhabitants account for 45 per cent of communities at the national level. The least problematic solution would be to do as much as possible with regard to the construction of reception areas for Travellers and public transit areas, which is far from the case in all departments. However, the adoption of these amendments, which I do not understand very well, would, on the contrary, have the effect of drastically limiting the creation of new areas, and thus of multiplying and aggravating the problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u136	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u137	Mr Saddier is right, the French institutional landscape has changed profoundly in recent years. However, we must not forget the gradual, slow and laborious - and, as we readily acknowledge - application of the Besson Act, a law that the amendment that Mr Huyghe has just withdrawn was simply intended to remove. In comparison, those who look at us now seem less violent. However, their result would not be so far from it, as it would result in more than half of the French territory no longer being subject to the obligations of the Besson Act. The majority of the rural areas would thus escape the fundamental obligation to welcome travellers to our territory, to which all the communes of France, apart from the Besson law, are bound. We are therefore clearly opposed to these amendments. I would add that the idea of providing for the construction of an area only if it has been shown that areas in the same area are sufficiently used would be a contradiction, if not a nonsense, since these areas, by definition, are not intended to be 100% occupied. Such a requirement would be to divert them from their objective of enabling travel, transfer, mobility and change. Our group will therefore vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u138	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u139	As regards State financing, the capacity to receive land is taken into account in the calculation of the overall budget for the operation of the communities, not to mention the support of the CAF for the support of these populations and the management of the land.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u140	As well as the provision of equipment in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u141	Yes, it is. Public funding is very real. We need more reception areas and the legislative framework seems to me to be appropriate. Limiting the creation of these areas, which are necessary, is not at all in the right direction. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Your amendments pose a major risk. We all have land unoccupied because it is inaccessible or invivable. I cannot support the idea of taking into account such spaces to consider that a territory is sufficiently meshed! In rural areas, there is no obligation on EPCIs who have no communes of more than 5000 inhabitants, which does not prevent Travellers from settling there. To deny this reality by pretending that there is no need for land, does not seem to me a good policy. The responsibility of elected officials is to meet the needs of their people, in their diversity. From this point of view, your text does not seem to me to be going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u142	It's not the new world anymore, it's another world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u143	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u144	I must reply to the Secretary of State and Mr Paris: you do not solve the problem. If there are amendments which I cannot understand, they are those, because they would allow us to answer the question of the financial contribution, within an EPCI, of a commune with more than 5000 inhabitants to the construction of a reception area in another municipality. There lies the ambiguity of the MAPTAM law and the NOTRE law. You reject our amendments while recognizing the reality of a problem that you are not trying to solve by tabling your own amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u145	I tabled them in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u146	Neither the Government nor the majority have tabled any amendments. By refusing ours, you therefore give up dealing with the problem. On the other hand, I would ask you to be a little clearer, Madam Minister, for the French who listen to us and who will read our reports. There is a difference between the Besson law, which we defend, and your position. According to the Besson Act, a municipality that does not reach the 5000 inhabitants is considered to lack the necessary infrastructure to provide a reception area for travellers. On the other hand, what you want, Madam Minister – and I thank you for recognizing, but I would like to see you clearly assume it, and the Republic Group in progress following you – is that under the NOTRE and MAPTAM laws, all EPCIs are obliged to participate in the reception of Travellers. Implicitly, you admit that 45% of the reception areas are located in EPCIs of which none of the member communes have more than 5000 inhabitants. You therefore refer half of the problems to small rural communes, which do not have a central fund of social activities and have very little means to accompany people we all know, for having been elected local or even mayor, that they are in great need of this support. We wish to remain with the provisions of the Besson Act, and this is the subject of these amendments. On the contrary, you want to generalize to all French communities the obligations regarding the reception of Travellers. It's a point of disagreement between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u147	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u148	I do not share Mr Saddier's vision because the EPCIs he wants to ease the obligations of account for 45% of the total number of public institutions for inter-communal cooperation. In the end, if these amendments were adopted, almost no reception areas would be built. Our colleague wants to please everyone: he wants to fight against illegal installations while saving EPCI the burden of investing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u149	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u150	First of all, let me be surprised at the absence of the Chair of the Law Committee. I don't even see a vice president sitting...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u151	There's one: Didier Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u152	Why aren't you in committee, Mr. Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u153	No arrest! Go on, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u154	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I'm not calling anyone. I was only surprised to see Virginie Duby-Muller alone and abandoned at the bench of commissions. I was afraid to see it as a sign of contempt for a text considered in the context of a parliamentary niche. There was cause for concern, but you reassured me. Since you reject our proposals to include in the law the threshold of 5000 inhabitants, I conclude that you want to oblige all municipalities, including the smallest of them, to build, manage and take care of reception areas for Travellers. Our fellow citizens must become aware of the situation that will result. However, it would have been much simpler and more balanced to take into account the work done by senators on all political fronts to improve both the reception of Travellers and the way they are accepted. We cannot hope that things will go well when everything is done to hinder public authority and disorganise this reception.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u155	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 12 and 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u156	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 35, 13 and 38, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 13 and 38 are identical. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u157	By this amendment, we propose to double the amount of fines to be paid by municipalities that do not meet the objectives of social housing construction and to lower the threshold below which the amount due is not levied from 4000 to 1000 euros. The Act on Urban Solidarity and Renewal (SRU) of 14 December 2000 set the necessary proportion of social housing in the largest municipalities at 20%. The Duflot Act of 2013 increased this rate to 25 per cent. However, the committee to monitor this law, headed by former minister Thierry Repentin, recommended last November to the government to punish more strongly the 233 bad students she has identified. The amendments remain extremely effective when they are implemented: 80% of the municipalities financially sanctioned between 2011 and 2013 have met their quotas much better. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to empower the State to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u158	On the same amendments Nos 13 and 38, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u159	This amendment tends to go back to the original version and to re-establish paragraph 18, deleted in the Law Committee, which allowed to account for the locations of permanent reception areas within social housing chosen to assess compliance with the Act of 13 December 2000 on solidarity and urban renewal. I already hear the comments to denounce a form of stigmatization. But the question is not there. Following the Court of Auditors, the Minister acknowledged the need to reduce the cost of these buildings. The French who listen to us tonight or read the reports tomorrow will agree: 35,000 euros on average, this is not a small sum, especially when we consider the state of public finances. We are all aware of the constraint on municipalities to have 25 per cent of social housing and the penalties associated with it. At the same time, we have all recognized the need to generalize the development of departmental plans for Traveller reception areas throughout our territory. The adoption of our proposal would be a very encouraging signal in this regard, as it would encourage communities to improve the quality of reception and to finalize patterns where they are not yet. It is in this spirit that we wish to re-establish the version of the Senate, because it is in this spirit that our colleagues in the High Assembly have proposed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u160	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u161	I wish to associate myself with the arguments put forward by Martial Saddier. I would remind you that the majority in committee has removed the provision adopted in the Senate for the inclusion of places for the reception of travellers in social housing quotas. I am in favour of re-establishing this provision for several reasons. First of all, a caravan site represents for the communities concerned a cost estimated by the Court of Auditors between EUR 15000 and EUR 50000. This is therefore a financial effort for municipalities and intercommunalities, which also bear the costs of managing these facilities in a context of gradual disengagement of the State. Secondly, these sites in the permanent reception areas are already assimilated to social housing by many schemes. This is the case for the deduction of SRU penalties, for the discount on government property in the case of the creation of social housing or for family rental land. The absence of a lease or income criterion therefore seems to me to be an overmountable difficulty, especially when it is known that these populations are characterized by a high degree of precariousness. I therefore support these two identical amendments on a personal basis. However, the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on the three amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u162	What is the Government's opinion on the three amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u163	Travellers' reception areas are not long-term accommodation offered for rent in the long term and under protective conditions of modest households. While these long-term and universally accessible dwellings constitute the very essence of the provisions of article 55 of the SRU Act, the reception areas do not meet the characteristics of these dwellings. In addition, in the absence of leases or rental-type occupancy, there is no mechanism to guarantee actual occupancy – these sites are not always occupied – which prohibits accounting to verify the satisfaction of SRU objectives. That is why I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u164	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u165	If I speak as the person responsible for the text for our group, Mrs Boyer, I am also Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It just seemed clearer to me to sit on my bench.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u166	The Republic on the move group is therefore not large enough, if it cannot appoint a person responsible for the text in addition to the Vice-President...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u167	Please let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u168	He called me, Mr. President. I'll answer him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u169	I just answered the question that you asked me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u170	Is it possible to return to the debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u171	On this amendment, we must recognise the real coherence of your political group. After trying to stop the efforts of rural communities, you are now trying to stop the efforts that urban communities must make under the SRU Act. It is clear that the reception areas for Travellers cannot be characterized as social housing, as the rapporteur acknowledged, in the absence of a rental lease and of all the characteristics that make a dwelling sustainable. Do not allow urban communities that have an obligation to achieve these goals the opportunity to get out of this a little too quickly and a little too easily, by integrating the traveller's reception areas into their accounts. This would not be in line with our social objectives. Our group is clearly opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u172	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u173	I would like to make it clear that our amendment is not intended to make a parallel between the reception areas for Travellers and social housing. Our amendment, which is an ad hoc amendment, has only taken advantage of the choice of Members of the Republican Group to introduce this issue. It aims at the need to implement, for the benefit of social housing, a provision for the effective enforcement of the law. This was an opportunity for us, in the context of the bill, to recall the requirement of the other issue of social housing. However, I would like to join the majority in recognizing that the reception areas of Travellers cannot be confused with social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u174	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u175	As much as I agree on the characteristics of social housing, I am astonished that we forget that the sites of the reception areas are a priori paying or – this has been recalled – expensive, which is not the case everywhere, fortunately. From the time these sites are paid, they are the subject of a contract, even if it is not a rental lease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u176	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 13 and 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u177	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u178	The amendment proposes that the Government submit to Parliament, within three months of the enactment of this Act, a report assessing the capacity of local authorities to finance departmental travel arrangements, taking into account the continuing decline in State allocations and the fiscal austerity imposed on them. The aim of this amendment is therefore to respond to the real difficulties faced by many communities – difficulties that have been raised by several Members – as more than a third of the total requirements in terms of reception places of the departmental arrangements for the reception of Travellers were not achieved at the beginning of 2017, so that there is a shortage of places in France 11370. The territorial disparities are also very marked: the pattern is entirely achieved in only eighteen departments, while in the remaining eighty-two departments the average rate of achievement is only 63 per cent. The submission of this report to Parliament would make it possible to highlight the difficulty of taking over the departmental arrangements for the reception of Travellers by the municipalities and their groups, even though budgetary efforts are constantly being requested, and to draw the necessary conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u180	Your amendment seeks to ask the Government for a report on the capacity of communities to finance departmental travel arrangements in the light of the continuing decline in State allocations. You are right: their cost can sometimes be a brake on the realization of the areas. As I pointed out in committee, I agree with your concern, which is also that of local elected officials, and to which this bill attempts to respond by better regulating the obligations of local elected officials. I am therefore rather in favour of your amendment on a personal basis. The committee, on the other hand, expressed an unfavourable opinion on the proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u182	The Government had expressed an unfavourable opinion on the amendment, which sought a report on the financing of areas and land for Travellers. The Government recalled, during the Senate's consideration of this bill, that the funds to support local investment, which have been extensively consolidated, as you know, in the 2018 Finance Act, since they have benefited from a total of €1 billion, can be used for the construction of travel people's areas – I am thinking in particular of the DETR, which is a supply of equipment for rural territories. I would like to point out, Mr Saddier, that with the threshold of 5000 inhabitants, it would be almost impossible to create reception areas for Travellers in my department. The village, which is rural, has a large number of small communes – only seven exceed the 5000 inhabitants threshold. If the means can obviously be a brake on the construction of locations for Travellers, we know that this is not the only one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u183	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u184	The minister summed up the financial situation perfectly. It is true that local and regional authorities have not always experienced booming budgetary periods, even though the current government's action is aimed at halting the decline by stabilising it before gradually improving the situation. Indeed, this year the State will contribute EUR 48.3 billion to their financing – an increase of 200 million compared to the previous year. The overall operating allocation has increased significantly. The DETR, as the Minister pointed out, also provides an opportunity to respond to this situation. I would like to point out that while reports or evaluations can always be carried out, this amendment is already satisfactory, since the Minister of Housing reports annually on the implementation of the areas, which is in response to Mrs Obono's concern. The Group of the European People's Party is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u185	I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the length of our debates. If it is good for each group to speak, the fact that several speakers per group take the floor could extend the debate too much. Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u186	I will make a brief comment on Mr Saddier's remarks, Mr President. He has pointed out three times that institutional changes in recent years are a problem. I don't think so: the rise in intercommunality was not a problem but an opportunity for the municipalities. I can thus give you the example of a rural commune belonging to an intercommunality which, because the reception area is situated in its territory, succeeds in stabilising families who, as a result, enrol their children in school, which makes it possible to consolidate their number. The arrival of Travellers can therefore be an opportunity to strengthen the population in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u187	The Commission has deleted Article 2. I have before me three amendments aimed at restoring them and which can be discussed jointly, Nos 14, 39 and 36. Amendments Nos 14 and 39 are identical. On these identical amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u188	In the Congress of Mayors and Presidents of Intercommunality, the President of the Republic and the Government recognized that there is a real problem with the financing of local authorities. I am grateful to you, minister, for I think you are not responsible for anything in this official recognition. When we were in power, we had frozen the allocations to the local authorities. We are leaving today from five years in which we have witnessed not only a drastic decline in the allocation but also an unprecedented increase in the equalization fund – a situation that you know very well by your visit to the Association des mayores de France, Madam Minister. The Government, I stress, has had the merit of recognizing the particularly difficult financial situation of the local and regional authorities and of taking the decision to revert to the freeze of the allocations that we had decided before 2012. If I recall this, it is simply to reaffirm this evening that some local and regional authorities are facing a real budgetary stalemate if they include in the budget of the municipality or of the intercommunality the construction of a reception area for travellers of thirty, forty or fifty places, at the rate of 35,000 euros. It's a real problem. National representation cannot overlook the particularly difficult situation of communities that, in less than ten years, have changed particularly. If we are to promote the development of the departmental plans for the reception of Travellers providing for the construction of these areas, we must come back very quickly to the obligations incumbent on the local authorities, because of which the cost of a place reaches 35,000 euros, which is no longer bearable and is no longer accepted by our fellow citizens. Coercive devices should also be avoided. That is why Amendment No. 14 proposes to re-establish Article 2 as drafted by the Senate, which aims to remove the procedure for the recording of funds, which is extremely poorly experienced by local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u189	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u190	This amendment, identical to that advocated by Mr Saddier, aims to restore the abolition of the mechanism for depositing funds. This mechanism, introduced by the Equality and Citizenship Act, has been very badly received by local elected officials, while the State also requires them to achieve significant savings that it does not apply to itself. Personally, I support this amendment for a number of reasons. As the Court of Auditors points out, the mechanism of substitution of the prefect for the failing community, which is less in breach of the prerogatives of the communities in so far as it puts the State in the face of its financial responsibilities, has never been applied, because "the prefects do not wish to run the risk of seriously damaging their relations with the elected ones if the procedure is implemented". In this context, the recording procedure, which is even more punitive, does not apply. It sends an unnecessarily negative signal to communities, while, on the contrary, it is necessary to help communities financially to build areas or family land, where it is necessary, rather than penalizing them. That is the whole purpose of this bill. As we have said, we wish to put forward operational measures in this bill; However, the procedure for recording funds is not at all. If you wish to exercise pragmatism, we therefore ask you to reinstate Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u191	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u192	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u193	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u194	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u196	I have heard your argument, Madam rapporteur, but this recording mechanism is extremely recent since it was introduced by the Equality and Citizenship Act of 27 January 2017. Of course, it may be little used – I didn't really check it –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u197	If he's little employed, it's just because he's new!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u198	...but it is a tool in the hands of the prefect who can encourage recalcitrant territories to build reception areas for Travellers. This is not a coercive measure, but an incentive for the proper application of the law. As regards the six-month period, it seems necessary to allow the Prefect to decide on the timetable for the implementation of the scheme's obligations, so as to adapt to local specificities which may require a longer or, on the contrary, shorter period. The novelty of this procedure prevents us from really drawing important conclusions. Besides, I trust the prefects to use it in an incentive way, when it's really worth it. Moreover, as you are most certainly aware, a circular was sent to the Prefects in November or December on the question of adaptability, a subject very dear to the Government and to the President of the Republic. Also, in areas like this, the prefect may choose to use this tool or not to use it. To sum up, the fund-recording mechanism is recent and has a more incentive than coercive nature – you admit it yourself, Madam rapporteur, since you noted that it was not being used. It is therefore not necessary to delete it; I even think we need to keep it because it might one day prove useful. Unfavorable opinion on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u199	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u200	Our colleague Valérie Boyer said earlier – and she was absolutely right – that care must be taken not to organize public impotence. I am just wondering whether these amendments are not specifically aimed at organising public impotence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u201	Anything! Is that a hidden camera?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u202	Public impotence is the illegal occupation of land!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u203	The system is generally well identified. The first level is that of formal notice by the Prefect, since he considers that the situation requires his intervention, for example because illegal settlements are problematic. The second level is that of substitution by the prefect. The third level is recent, as the minister has said and as the rapporteur has kindly acknowledged, since it is the result of the law of 27 January 2017: it allows the recording of funds but we do not yet have sufficient setbacks to draw up a very complete balance sheet. By grace, let the prefects be able to respond to local situations...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u204	What about the mayors? What about the elected ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u205	... through the new and powerful tools that have been given to them. These are, moreover, tools that are perfectly in line with our constitutional principles, since the Constitutional Council has indicated that they do not exceed the rights of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u206	What is the use of local elected officials? All we have to do is put them under guardianship!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u207	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u208	Hearing the Minister's contortions on this matter,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u209	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u210	...we realize that she's not very comfortable with this situation. It is not known whether it works or whether it does not work; Finally, the prefects are left free to make the decision... We still do the law and, to be applicable, it must be well written! From the moment there is a device, it shall be applied; If it is considered not to be good, it must be repealed. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, be quiet: this arrangement was voted in January 2017, so by another majority. I know that you have behind you a large majority of Members who already belonged to the previous majority, since they were members of the Socialist Party before being recycled by the running Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u211	Easy! I don't!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u212	I said "a great majority" so I wasn't talking about everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u213	This concerns 50% of the deputies of the Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u214	But this is still the case for a vast majority of you... Just check Wikipedia to find out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u215	That's not entirely true, or completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u216	Madam Minister, you can therefore free yourself from the provisions voted in the previous legislature in order to develop a clear, effective and applicable law. We also want to re-establish a minimum of six months after the prefect has notified the community. Given the difficulties encountered on the ground, in a number of municipalities and EPCI, in setting up reception areas for Travellers, due to a lack of land, a lack of resources for the communities or a disagreement with neighbouring municipalities on the location of these settlements, the restoration of a period of six months between the notice and the resumption of the situation by the prefect seems to me to be a minimum that we owe to the local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u217	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments illustrate the imbalance that characterizes your approach to the subject. You want to penalize Travellers even more when they violate the law, but you want to be very kind to the municipalities and communities of municipalities that would not comply with their legal obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u219	We can see you didn't listen to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u220	If the optional constraints laid down by law are removed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u221	What is an optional constraint?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u222	... then the construction of reception areas and passageways will never be completed. Yet you know that the more land there will be, the less illegal occupation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u223	That's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u224	In these amendments, you are therefore playing against the very purpose of this bill, which is to avoid illegal occupation of land.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u225	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u226	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to reply to the Minister and to Mr Paris, who wish to maintain the procedure of deposit. You highlight the incentive nature of this measure; However, to speak of an incentive, there should be accompanying arrangements, which is not the case today. Finally, we are more in the symbol than in operational measures. That is why we, together with Martial Saddier and my other colleagues in the Republican Group, want this mechanism to be abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u227	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 14 and 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u228	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 33 on the additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u229	With this amendment, we propose that the Government submit to Parliament a report assessing the number of alternative procedures used when local authorities have failed to meet their obligations under the departmental plan for the reception of Travellers, as well as the number of those that could have been used to ensure the implementation of this scheme. On 16 October 2017, the Defender of Rights reiterated his recommendation to make effective the substitution power of the prefects in this regard. The abolition of the procedure for recording funds introduced by Article 149 of the Law of 27 January 2017 is not such as to encourage prefects to exercise this alternative power, even though Article L. 2321-2 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities classifies "expenditure caused by the application of the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of Law No 2000-614 of 5 July 2000 on the reception and accommodation of travellers" as a compulsory expenditure. In its 2017 annual public report, the Court of Auditors notes: "The Besson Act provided in its Article 3, in case of necessity, for the possibility of forced implementation of the creation of reception areas by replacing the prefect. The Ministry of the Interior acknowledged that, in reality, this alternative power had never been implemented. He stressed, inter alia, that "in its current wording, [it] cannot be done in practice without raising numerous legal difficulties of implementation". » However, in view of the low rate of implementation of departmental travel arrangements, it seems necessary to take stock of the use of the substitution procedure in order to make it easily applicable and practical.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u231	Unfavorable. This amendment provides for the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the substitution procedure. As I said in committee, this procedure has never been used. The balance sheet is therefore simple: it is not adapted. As for the appropriateness of using it, I consider it to depend on the local circumstances, the means of the communities concerned and the difficulties they face. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors has already presented the legal weaknesses of this system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u232	The first speaker on Rule 3 is Mr Didier Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u233	This Article 3, which aims to improve the organisation of large gatherings on the main passageways, is one of the provisions which our political group has considered admissible. It is healthy and natural that travellers, and especially their communities – since these great gatherings are, in reality, increasingly of a cult nature, especially within the Pentecostal community – can organize themselves at best. However, it is sometimes complicated and difficult when one hundred or one hundred fifty caravans arrive in the same territory. Up to now, the regulations provided for information to the municipalities within two months. Article 3 provides that prefects must be informed of this within three months. This finally seems to us to be a healthy provision, which also takes up almost point-by-point an existing circular from the Ministry of the Interior, dated 10 April 2017. The group La République en marche therefore has a positive view of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u234	Mr Saddier, if you will, I will give the floor to the other two speakers on this item before I allow your request for suspension of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u235	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u236	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u237	In my speech on section 1, I took examples of abuses and offences committed in my constituency by Travellers without any prosecution being brought against them. That the Besson law is not enforced does not give some people in this community the right to assault, vandalize or insult. In the face of this situation, our fellow citizens do not understand the inaction of the State and the absence of intervention by law enforcement or the judiciary. On the ground, I now hear that we want to do justice ourselves, since the state does nothing. I also hear that the state is ruthless with the French who have exceeded the authorized speed by a few kilometres per hour, but that it closes its eyes to the destruction of communal equipment, or even private, by Travellers. There is double standards for our fellow citizens. Our communes defend themselves with their weapons: we dig trenches to prevent invasions, we invest tens of thousands of euros in anti-intrusion devices that are regularly destroyed and our villages are disfigured by these new urban warts. The simple citizen defends himself with his weapons: he rejects politicians, who are unable to enforce his property, refuses to vote or gives his voice to the extremes. With every change of prefect in the North, I ask for a meeting on this issue and I do the same with all the prosecutors appointed in Lille. I always tell them the same thing: one day, someone will pull out a weapon, either on the side of the people of the journey or on the side of the residents. One day there will be a drama and no one can say that he did not know. On the ground, there is anger, exasperation: if we do nothing – as we take the path, since you have emptied this text of its substance – there will soon be hatred.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u238	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u239	I take the floor once again to regret that we did not agree with the wisdom that the Senate encouraged us to do, because we have all experienced what my colleague Sébastien Huyghe has just described. I can assure you that in Marseilles, I have on several occasions, when I was mayor, had to take very costly measures, including on the deniers of the town hall of the sector, to ensure that the land ceased to be degraded, to prevent grassed football fields being invaded and degraded, to the great dam of the associations that used them and the inhabitants. Article 3 introduces a mandatory information system for the prefect of the region and the prefect of the department, as well as the local elected representatives concerned, upstream of the major passageways and large gatherings bringing together at least one hundred and fifty mobile residences. But we know perfectly well that, most of the time, when we are informed beforehand – which is, in fact, very rarely the case – for one hundred and fifty places, it is three hundred caravans that arrive and settle, far beyond the land affected or on land that is absolutely not intended for this use. We then incriminate the communes, including the large ones – I am, for my part, elected from Marseilles – while we do not have any particular land to make available in addition to the one we have already intended, in particular, for the reception areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Today, it would be both wise and reasonable if you could take into account the proposals we have made to you. These are not partisan proposals, written on a corner: they have been the subject of consultations with many of our colleagues from all walks of life. The principle of reality should force you tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u240	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u241	The meeting was resumed. I call on the Minister to reply to the speakers on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u242	Just a word on the principle of reality: I always hear that everything would be the fault of the State. First of all, within the state, in the sense of republican continuity, the policy of Travellers comes from afar; Many majorities have followed each other and the legacy is what it is – I am not targeting any particular government. Governments have tried to find solutions not only to the reception of travellers but also to the repression of unrest. All right! But communities also have to do their job. I therefore come back to the principle of reality concerning Marseilles: you said, Mrs Boyer, that the State was doing nothing. However, in the Bouches-du-Rhône, the creation of places in reception areas for Travellers only reached 35.4%: a small effort in the Bouches-du-Rhône and Marseilles would perhaps not be an evil, ma'am, you who were mayor of borough in Marseilles! Since you asked me about the principle of reality, I am referring you to reality: 35.4% of achievement! You can't keep saying: "The gendarmes don't do anything, the police don't do anything, the state doesn't do anything: it's awful! Without taking on its responsibilities and applying the law as it should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u243	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u244	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Again, all successive governments have tried to find solutions and it is known that it is not easy. It is very annoying that some speakers ask real questions, calling for answers to real problems, while others constantly politicize: it is very tiring and very unpleasant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u245	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u246	I would like to make a point of order to respond to the minister. It is not a question of politicizing everything or denouncing a State that is inconsistent or absent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u247	That's not what we said, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u248	The purpose of our interventions is to emphasize that the services of the State, including justice, are deprived because the texts do not allow them to intervene in all cases. The whole purpose of this bill is to ensure that the State, the judiciary, the police and local elected officials have the means to respond as quickly as possible to situations of invasion, crime and degradation, which prevent our fellow citizens from working and businesses from settling in certain parts of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u249	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u250	This bill contains the instruments to remedy these shortcomings and empowers state officials to act in the well-understood interests of our citizens. It is not a question of political policy but of a desire for efficiency and of giving all the means to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u251	The point of order must be a real point of order: you will have ample opportunity to speak, including in response to the minister, when considering the following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u252	The Commission has deleted Article 3a. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 15 and 40. On these amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u253	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Enforcement is difficult, but it's a good thing: we're here to write the law and, if necessary, rewrite it or amend it if it's a problem. That is what we are proposing with this amendment. The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish a provision adopted by the Senate, an institution that is, of course, far less politicized than this house. The Senate, with calm and serenity, made a proposal. For our part, we are very clear in our approach: there is a risk that travellers will be pointed out, as a number of our fellow citizens are wrongly convinced that they do not contribute financially to the cost of their reception. Having been mayor and president of an intercommunity, I am the first to say that, in a number of cases, things are going well and that the travel community is contributing financially to its reception. However, this is not the purpose of this evening. We focus on difficult cases, and that is quite normal, by trying to find solutions. Our fellow citizens are convinced that the entire Traveller community is not involved financially, but it is not. The Senate has therefore proposed that a decal be affixed to each vehicle in a visible way, allowing control and communication on the fact that the Travellers participate financially in the reception they have received in the departments, in the intercommunities and in the communes. We believe that this proposal is likely to make the reception of Travellers much more acceptable and to help local elected officials improve their quality. We therefore propose that this provision adopted by the Senate be reinstated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u254	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u255	Like my colleague Martial Saddier, I wish, through this amendment, to restore the increase in the tax on mobile residences and the use of vignettes. In my view, these provisions pursue two objectives: on the one hand, better to cover the expenditure incurred by the local authorities in setting up reception areas, the revenue from the tax coming from the communal bloc, and, on the other hand, to monitor more effectively the recovery of this tax, which has posed difficulties since its creation by the Financial Amendment Act in 2010. I believe that compliance with the tax rules is an obligation for all and that the text adopted by the Senate has the merit of trying to find new solutions to facilitate controls. On the other hand, there is nothing discriminating to affix a vignette, which only indicates that this tax has been paid. I am therefore in favour of this re-establishment, although, of course, the Committee on Laws has not adopted a similar position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u257	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u258	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u259	This is a measure that I find really discriminating because only the vehicles of the Travellers would be affected. Moreover, there is no guarantee that increasing this tax by 50 euros would make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u260	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u261	I do not understand, Madam Minister: you told us earlier – I imagine it was meant for us – that we had a very politicized vision. However, we have been telling you since the beginning of the examination of this text, and we hope that the text of the Senate, considered by senators of all political backgrounds, will be adopted here, because it is the emanation of several political bodies but also of the territories: it seems to me to be struck at the corner of common sense. As for the amendments that have just been tabled by the rapporteur and by my colleague, I do not see how a sticker on a vehicle would be discriminatory – on the contrary, ensuring that everyone has the right to occupy a land is a matter of dignity. Restoring this vignette would put an end to many debates, to many clichés about the reception of travellers. Imposing travellers to do so would restore respect, both for them, for the communes and for the land that is occupied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u262	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u263	Mr Roseren considers that a vignette on a caravan would be discriminating. This would mean that when you are recognized as a member of the Traveller community, you are discriminated against! The problem is that when you see a caravan on a traveler's field, you automatically know that the one who lives in this caravan is a member of the traveler's community. You don't even need a vignette to see it! I don't see how it could be determined that a small piece of paper on one of the caravan windows would be more discriminating than moving to a traveler's reception area: something escapes me! Without argument to reject this amendment, you are ready for all the caricatures!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u264	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u265	I will reply by the absurd, ladies and gentlemen, by using an image that will speak to you a little better: after adopting this amendment, you will be able to impose on every commercial company that has not paid its corporate tax to display, at the entrance of its premises, "did not pay its corporate tax". This provision, a little along the lines of the amendment you have just proposed, would be a stigmatization. We will therefore vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u266	And to display his insurance sticker is discriminant?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u267	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u268	If we want organised debates, it is better not to question each other and let each speaker speak! Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u269	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will speak very quickly, in the same direction as the previous speaker: the caricature is on your side! Who would agree to put on his house a vignette or paper to certify that he paid his house tax or property tax? Let's be serious! If you don't call it discrimination, what is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u270	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 15 and 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u271	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u272	In order to secure the legal situation of Travellers who cannot benefit from a suitable reception because of the failure to complete a departmental scheme for the reception of Travellers, we propose to include them in the scheme of common law, i.e. the mechanism of conciliation and guarantee of the rights provided for in the right to housing. In fact, the right to welcome Travellers, given their non-sedentary lifestyle, necessarily constitutes a corollary of the right to housing. In the present state of the law, Travellers injured by the lack of realization of the departmental scheme may, under the conditions of ordinary law, lodge an action for failure to comply with their obligations against the State so that the latter may call on the municipalities concerned to comply with their obligations. We propose that, in addition to this procedure, Travellers to whom the inaction of the municipalities and the State with regard to the implementation of the departmental scheme prejudices, under the conditions of common law, may initiate the procedure provided for in housing law in order to have the State as a last resort condemned so that it may carry out the procedure of consignment and force the realization of the departmental scheme. In addition, we propose to formally extend the scope of the freedom order to these injured applicants, in that the right to reception for Travellers is considered to be a fundamental freedom, which is a component of the right to housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u274	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u276	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u277	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u278	I am against this amendment, which is not directly at the heart of the bill. However, it allows me to clarify one point. I'm quite surprised – but perhaps it's because of a lack of habit and a form of naivety – how our colleagues in the group The Republicans have behaved since the beginning of our debates. Whatever the article under discussion, even those for which the La République en marche group is proposing a positive vote, they never speak of the article itself, but they speak of general remarks which reproach us not to perceive the expectations of the French. It is rather unpleasant, if not unbearable, to be so permanently in the off subject. We feel that this debate is just one political forum among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u279	If we don't do politics here, where will we do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u280	I can very much take on board what the minister has said. Mr Saddier has been telling us for a while now that we must not blame him, but in terms of guilt you are very strong! You keep repeating that the French, the communities are watching us and that we will one day be criticized. Let's stop! We are here to do serious things about a community that we must work together to solve problems by examining what provisions we can adopt. Let us do so and stop systematically looking for loopholes, as has been the case since the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u281	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u282	By this amendment, we propose to create a system of financial sanctions against EPCIs and municipalities that have not complied with the objectives set out in the departmental scheme for the reception of Travellers, based on the sanctions currently in force for the so-called SRU laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u284	Unfavorable. Your amendment provides for a levy on their resources in the event that the municipalities or intercommunalities fail to fulfil their obligations under the departmental scheme, depending on their fiscal potential and capped at 5% of their actual operating expenses. You are again planning sanctions similar to those applicable to social housing without applying the inclusion of places in SRU quotas in return. Moreover, this proposal is not at all appropriate. It will only reinforce the incomprehension of elected officials who, in the majority of cases, organize the travel of Travellers as best they can. Finally, financial sanctions mechanisms have not proved effective, especially when the main difficulties are the lack of land or financial resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u286	Opinion against a provision which would have a very significant financial impact on the budget of the municipalities and the EPCIs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u287	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u288	We have to keep it right. The aim of this amendment is finally to significantly increase the existing constraints on communities whose difficulties we are experiencing. We must preserve the balance of the text, which confirms that of the law of 27 January 2017. Article 2 already provides for a very precise mechanism for increasing these constraints in order to ensure that they are implemented in exactly proportion to the work that the municipalities must carry out – I am thinking in particular of the recording. It may not be necessary to add them when they are already doing their job and the mayors are fully aware of their responsibilities, which are difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u289	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u290	Article 4 is difficult. It appeals to the institutional evolution of our territories and to the powers of the police. Currently, if the reception area of a municipality has been established by the EPCI, the President of the EPCI may have the police powers in this regard. The question is whether communities that have already established areas, often prior to the transfer under the MAPTAM and NOTRE Acts, can retain these police powers when the EPCI to which they belong has not yet achieved all the objectives assigned to it within the framework of the departmental scheme. This is in line with the need to enable local and regional authorities and elected representatives who wish to do so to have adequate resources to deal with illegal settlements. The response of the working Republic group is positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u291	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u292	I would like to take advantage of this discussion on Article 4 in response to Mr Paris. Yes, Mr Paris, the French look at us when we debate in this Chamber. Yes, they realize that what we are voting here will have an impact on their daily lives, especially when they are hampered by invasions, degradation, lack of respect for the law – they feel that there is double standards, for example when they are punished for violations of speed or parking rules. What we want to do here is to provide answers and solutions. This text, which you say is balanced, was indeed balanced when it arrived on the Bureau of the National Assembly, but unfortunately you emptied it of its substance. There is only this unfortunate Article 4 which no longer means much without all those who have been removed in the commission of laws by your majority. We could have found ourselves on a number of provisions. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the speakers speaking on behalf of your group are the least faced with these situations. However, a number of your colleagues are somewhat embarrassed at the corners because it is also their daily life: Members of Parliament The Republicans are not the only ones to be confronted with these problems. I would have expected those who boast that they are from the new world to be a little more constructive, even with regard to opposition proposals. I remember that under the previous legislature, despite the right-left cleavage that you call an old world, we could find ourselves around texts or provisions of general interest. In the new world that is ours today, we find what was worst in the old: sectarianism and consideration, on your benches, that all the opposition's proposals are null and void.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u293	Your proposals are unspeakable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u294	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u295	Article 4 will agree: we find it very well drafted and it has not been amended by the House. You see that we are not sectarian and that we accept the well-made and well-written provisions. We attach great importance to this text, which deserves as much respect as any other. If we are here tonight, it is because we have all had to deal with absolutely inextricable situations. We are not here, minister, to complain or criticize the state, but to make the law and make things better. As mayor, we find ourselves completely helpless in the face of the illegal occupation of land by Travellers. Your people tell you: "When I park badly, I have a VP; when I do things that are not in the right direction, I get punished." You see degradations, illegal occupations, people who are afraid, neighbours who are not happy, degraded public land, and you can't do anything. Even the prefect tells you: "We can't do much, the people of the journey will leave when they decide and regardless of the procedures involved." Well, we want to change that state of affairs, to ensure that the Travellers are considered to be everyone and punished like the others when they are outside the nails, no more or less.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u296	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u297	I would like to share with you my Alsatian experience. Of the major transit groups that are expected, 40 per cent are in the departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin. Being in the border zone, we meet with the German mayors at the end of the summer and we have the same debate systematically: in France, all mayors have difficulties with travellers while the question does not arise at all in Germany. There are no regulations, no more than in Belgium – and I believe that Britain has removed the obligation – and there is no particular difficulty with these groups, which come in particular from Romania. In Germany, simply, a market has been organized locally: campsites accept to receive groups of Travellers; areas of large passageways are organized in a commercial way, and it works without difficulty. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This example perfectly illustrates the French evil: the more one seeks to solve a problem through regulation, the more it is worsened. Take a little interest in what is happening elsewhere in Europe, where things are obviously working better than at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u298	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u299	I would point out that Article 4 seeks to clarify that a municipality fulfilling its obligations with regard to the reception of Travellers may prohibit parking outside the managed areas, even if it belongs to an EPCI which, in its entirety, does not comply with the obligations imposed on it by the departmental scheme. Article 4 is therefore very important, as it responds to the request of local elected officials for forced evacuation. The Senate Law Commission has rewritten the original article with the aim of clarifying the division of responsibilities between municipalities and intercommunalities. Since this clarification is very relevant, we welcome the fact that the Law Committee of the National Assembly did not consider it useful to amend or even delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u300	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u301	I will confirm what my colleagues have said before. I am pleased with this article, which states that a municipality may, provided that it has fulfilled its obligations to accommodate Travellers, prohibit their parking outside the designated areas. In the Oise, especially in my constituency of Clermont, we had set up the territory accordingly. However, we are seeing illegal installations outside the developed areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore support Article 4, which I believe is perfectly drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u302	[[Smile]] Very nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u303	Who brought a lot of money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u304	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u305	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] I, too, believe that article 4 is absolutely perfect. Well, yes, for once! It is perfect for local communities, as it opposes the illegal occupation of public land and the degradation of public property. There are reception areas. There are happy travellers, I hope, to be welcomed there. And there are mayors and presidents of EPCI who have the means to welcome them. That is the purpose of this text. I regret, however, that the majority has removed from the bill the reference to economic damage that concerns private land and businesses illegally occupied. You know as well as I do that the procedures to get people off the road last a very long time. At the end of an occupation, businesses, buildings or occupied car parks are completely degraded and, of course, no one compensates the victims. I regret that nothing has been planned for them. Since municipalities and EPCIs carry out reception areas, why not go to the end of the scheme by providing for more effective measures to protect businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u306	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u307	Last week, after the Law Committee's examination of the text, the retention of Article 4 was the only real positive point, since the text had been emptied of its content. This article 4 proposed by the Senate and voted by the LaREM Group provides encouragement. When a municipality adheres to a departmental scheme for the reception of travellers and fulfils its legal obligations, the least it can do is to have the means to enforce the law in its territory. So, like my colleagues, I support the article. Having very courteous relations with Mr Paris, I will reply to him with the calm which he has shown in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and which he continues to adopt in the Chamber. Earlier, he suspected me of trying to make him feel guilty. I reminded the Committee on Laws that not all departments in France were equal in terms of the reception of Travellers. I have considered – at random – the departmental welcome scheme for the people of the Côte-d'Or journey, of which I would like to read a few lines. This scheme applies only to municipalities with more than 5000 inhabitants. On the occasion of this debate, it is interesting to confront what we are talking about as Members in the Chamber and what is happening in our territories. The departmental plan of welcome for the people of the voyage la Côte-d'Or "does not propose a location for the large traditional gatherings not observed in Côte-d'Or. In fact, this type of traditional grouping, especially cultural, has never been found in this department to date. With the exception of the fifteen communes with more than 5000 inhabitants, the scheme specifies: "For the rest of the department, attendance is episodic and does not require the development of reception areas. I can assure you that many departments, including the Haute-Savoie department, are not in the same situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u308	Come to Marseille!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u309	And in Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u310	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u311	If Article 4 fully satisfies us – several of us have said so – I would like to question you on one point. This article concerns the rights of a municipality that fulfils its obligations to receive Travellers. The said municipality will have the possibility to prohibit the parking of Travellers outside the designated areas, even if it belongs to an EPCI which does not fulfil, throughout its territory, the obligations created by the departmental hosting scheme for Travellers. I stress the difficulties that mayors face in this type of procedure. In the event of a violation of the municipal decree, the mayor or owner of a private land may request the prefect to order the occupant to leave the premises. Such a notice may be challenged before the administrative court, which is generally not denied to the occupants. The administrative court must rule on this challenge within 48 hours. Until 2017, he had seventy-two hours to do so. Where notice is not given within 24 hours – 48 hours plus 24 hours have already passed – the prefect may proceed with the evacuation. In general, this is where the difficulty arises: mayors and private owners are usually left in the greatest disarray, as prefects very rarely have the means to carry out an evacuation. As a general rule, the measure is not enforced, which leads us to question court decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u312	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u313	Article 4 seems to be unanimous. However, I would like to make a comment. We are discussing this text as part of a parliamentary niche of the Republicans Group, whose members this afternoon have repeatedly accused us of sending their bills back to committee or rejecting them. Tonight, they are organizing themselves to drag the debates so that we cannot vote on this text. That is why all members of the Republicans in session have registered under Article 4. They will probably do the same on the following articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u314	We have the right to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u315	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, do you not want us to vote on this bill? You will be responsible to the mayors for not allowing the adoption of a text that would have provided them with concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u316	You emptied him of his contents!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u317	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u318	In advance, I apologize for breaking the fine unanimity that had emerged on Article 4. No doubt I will feel isolated, but in my view the text contains an error. According to the article, the mayor of a municipality who has fulfilled his obligations of reception towards travellers may prohibit, in the territory of the municipality – outside reception areas and family rental land – the parking of mobile residences, even though nothing has been settled in the EPCI. Such a provision is inconsistent, since the NOTRE Act has conferred jurisdiction over the creation, development, maintenance and management of the reception areas for Travellers and family rental land on the IBDA. If these are to be completed and reception areas created, this type of arrangement should not be allowed. That is why we propose that paragraph 9 be deleted. But I understand that the amendment is unlikely to receive your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u320	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment tends to go back to a point that has been the subject of consensus in our committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u321	There aren't many!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u322	Many of us have recalled this. The provision you wish to remove provides that a municipality fulfilling its obligations to receive Travellers may prohibit the parking of mobile residences outside the managed areas, even if it belongs to an EPCI which does not comply throughout its territory with its obligations under the departmental plan for the reception of Travellers. However, a recommendation from the Court of Auditors points out that the current restriction, which is the result of a ministerial response, "causes misunderstanding on the part of the municipalities members of the EPCI in whose territory a reception area has been established. The specific case of municipalities which have fully fulfilled their obligation of reception prior to the transfer of competence for the benefit of intercommunality should be examined in a specific way; it would be useful to allow them to also benefit from the forced evacuation procedure. » I therefore believe that there is no need to go back to this point, which is one of the only remaining advances for the communities concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u324	Unfavorable opinion, although I understand Mr Saulignac's reasoning, which is logical. When the debate took place in the Senate, I relied on the wisdom of the assembly. I therefore express an opinion against an amendment to delete a provision on which I had issued an opinion of wisdom. I will, however, make a point, since we have time now, and that will allow us to reach the stated time. To hear some Members speak, it is felt that all municipalities must equip themselves with reception areas for Travellers. Mr Saddier suggested this when he was surprised that the departmental hospitality scheme for Côte-d'Or Travellers applies only to communes with more than 5000 inhabitants. Everyone knows that a scheme is drawn up at the departmental level and that according to the needs related to the attendance of the department, reception areas are divided into intercommunal areas. There is also a need for a large passageway. In my department – sorry to always mention it as an example, but it is the one that I know best – an area of great passage is regularly used, either for large evangelical meetings or at the opening of the hunt, which attracts hundreds of caravans. The Loir-et-Cher is, in fact, one of the French departments that issues the most hunting permits, as a large number of travellers take a hunting permit in order to carry out this activity in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u325	There's no vignette on the rifle?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u326	[[Smile]] No! I stress that the reception is part of a comprehensive project. In some departments, 100 per cent of the facilities in reception areas are built; In others, the percentage is much lower. Some of the municipalities that have been designated in their intercommunality to create a reception area and that have done so sometimes find themselves penalized by the fact that others have not fulfilled this obligation, which they also had, simply because they did not want a reception area for Travellers on their territory. This situation justifies the retention of article 4, paragraph 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u327	The committee has deleted Article 5. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 16, 42, 50, 49, 52 and 51, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 16 and 42 are identical. On the identical amendments Nos 16 and 42, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u328	This is certainly the most important article in the text. There are cases where both local authorities and travel communities are in good standing. There are others where the communities are in order, the departmental scheme is consistent and implemented by the prefect in connection with intercommunal or mayors, but illegal settlements are still in place, recognized as such by everyone. The "Besson 2" law of 2000 is no longer adapted to the reality of 2018. We all know that when the illegality of a camp is found, the means of evacuating it often lead to upuesque situations. The occupied places are sometimes football fields; The children of the commune or of the intercommunality are then prevented from playing. Other times, employees are prevented from parking in the yard of the factory, or the large area of the area cannot open because its parking is completely occupied. The procedure leading to evacuation is extremely lengthy. On the one hand, a number of fireworks can be used by people who are not completely in good faith. On the other hand, the procedure is linked to the notion of "cadastral parcel". It is enough that people move a few meters and settle on another plot, or even on another commune within the same EPCI, so that the procedure becomes completely obsolete and has to be resumed from scratch. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that, when everything is in order, that the department has a legal and applied scheme, the prefects and the judiciary can have rapid means to identify and evacuate illegal settlements. The aim is to prevent people occupying illegal land from being able, by moving the caravan a few meters away, to bring down the whole procedure. We therefore propose that we return to the drafting of the Senate. I am talking about everyday problems that drive the inhabitants of the communes, the intercommunalities or the departments concerned completely crazy. As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, if you refuse to go back to the deletion of this article which you have decided in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, there will be a fundamental gap between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u329	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u330	As Martial Saddier said, we were particularly attentive to section 5, which forms the core of the bill's proposal. We have therefore deeply regretted the removal of the bill by the Law Commission. By re-establishing one of the main provisions of the Senate text, this amendment aims to improve procedures for the evacuation of illegal camps. Firstly, I would like to point out that these procedures can only be implemented by municipalities or intercommunal bodies which comply with all their obligations with regard to the reception of Travellers and which, despite this, are confronted with the installation of illegal camps. Secondly, the current evacuation procedures do not allow sufficient rapid action and are poorly applied. The people concerned are often already gone, leaving behind degradations that nourish a resentment of the local populations, which suffer those groups of Travellers who respect the rules of settlement. Thirdly, there is a kind of impunity because an evacuated camp – following a procedure difficult to implement by the mayors, who must convince the prefect to mobilize the police – sometimes resettles a few kilometres away. Everything is then to be done again, and you know that time management causes serious difficulties. Once the land has been degraded, the cost to both private and community owners is very significant. The sole purpose of the provisions of Article 5 was to respond to a legitimate request from elected officials who comply with their obligations – again, we do not wish to alleviate them – in order to be able to evacuate these illegal settlements in time to avoid severe degradation, both on private and public land. These measures are particularly expected in our territories. Their need was highlighted by recent examples. In my personal capacity, I therefore express a favourable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u331	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 50. Perhaps you could take the opportunity, my colleague, to make a joint presentation with Amendments Nos 49, 52 and 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u332	I prefer to introduce them one by one. Amendment No 50, first of all. Article 9 of the Act of 5 July 2000, the Besson Act, 2 provides that a notice of departure may be notified to Travellers in the event of unlawful parking, if the latter "is likely to affect public health, safety or tranquillity. The original text of the proposed law was intended to complement this provision usefully by justifying the challenge by "a breach of an exceptional gravity of the right to own property, freedom to go and come, freedom of trade and industry or continuity of public service". The situation on the ground is no longer tenable. We need ways to deal with increasingly determined and violent individuals, as I have had the opportunity to say in my various interventions. They are all the more so as they enjoy a real sense of impunity. I therefore propose that you re-establish this provision while removing the notion of "exceptional gravity": it is not necessary to assess the infringement of these basic rights in order to justify a notice of formal notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u333	I suggest that you keep the floor to support Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u334	Article 9 of the Act of 5 July 2000 provides that a notice of formal notice shall apply seven days from its notification in the territory of the municipality or of all or part of the intercommunality concerned. In its original version, the bill set that time limit at 15 days. It seems to me necessary to go further and to extend it to thirty days, in order to have a real deterrent to communities that know how to make chip jumps across communal and intercommunal borders. As the notice remains effective, the intervention will be even faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u335	Let us respect the forms: Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor to support Amendment No 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u336	Article 9, paragraph 4 of the second paragraph of the above-mentioned Act provides that the notice shall remain applicable for seven days "in a situation of unlawful parking [...] such as to cause [...] damage to public health, safety or tranquillity. The French concerned with these problems are overwhelmed by the perpetual invasions of caravans. While they want strong answers, they see only the impotence of the state. I propose to extend the cases of retention in application of the notice of formal notice, as the original text did, by supplementing this paragraph with grounds relating to "infringement of property rights, freedom to go and come, freedom of trade and industry or continuity of public service".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u337	Finally, Mr Sébastien Huyghe will support Amendment No 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u338	According to article 9 of the Act of 5 July 2000, where the notice to leave the premises has not been enforced, the prefect "may proceed with the forced evacuation of mobile residences". I therefore suggest that this procedure be automated if an unlawful situation has been found and the notice of formal notice has had no effect. The prefect would thus carry out the forced evacuation of mobile homes. Our fellow citizens do not understand that the law is not being respected in this kind of situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u340	The committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on the identical amendments, and I am asking for Mr Huyghe's four amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u342	The provisions of Article 5 would make it possible to extend the application of the prefect's notice beyond the unlawfully occupied land, by obliging Travellers to leave the territory of the commune or EPCI – except the dedicated areas, of course. However, the disorder of public order justifying the evacuation of Travellers is appreciated at the field level and not at the territory level of the municipality or the IBDA. Therefore, this measure appears to be manifestly disproportionate. This article also amends articles 9 and 9-1 of the Act of 5 July 2000 to consider disorder to public order as a possible but not necessary condition for the intervention of the prefect in the procedure of notice and evacuation. Nor can this provision be accepted. It is only in order to guarantee public order that the prefect can make use of his police powers in this area. This position has already been reiterated by the Constitutional Council in a decision on a priority issue of constitutionality of 9 July 2010. These considerations have a strong legal tone, but I'm sure you're following me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u343	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u344	Article 5 also sets the time limit for the execution of the notice of formal notice at 24 hours if the Travellers in question have already settled illegally in the territory of the municipality or EPCI. However, it is hardly possible to know a person's "recidivist" past, if I may say so. The purpose of this article is also to extend the period of notice of the Prefect to 15 days, instead of seven days. The violation of public freedoms – in this case, the freedom to go and come – by an administrative police regime is only possible if it is adapted and proportionate. In this respect, the 15-day period seems a little long. In addition, the article provides for a time limit of 48 hours for the execution of the prefect's decision of formal notice. However, it is in the light of local circumstances that the Prefect sets this deadline. It should therefore be given some flexibility in order to ensure the execution of the notice of formal notice. For all these reasons, quite legal, I must admit, I am against the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u345	Is the Government therefore opposed to the two identical amendments as to the following four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u346	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u347	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u348	[["Not in the same way! »on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Saddier is right, we are considering an important text. Let us therefore thank Mr Huyghe for the extremely useful – probably necessary as well as long – clarifications that he was willing to bring to us. Let us quickly recall the rules on this matter. Private owners, businesses, public land, all benefit from the protection of the law, the possibility of evacuation when they are victims of the illegal installation of a camp. That's quite normal; They're rules of law. But when the place is in a commune or an EPCI not respecting the departmental scheme or when, as recalled Minister, there is no danger to public order, the normal procedure is the ordinary law procedure in France to refer the matter to the judge. The latter intervenes and authorizes the evacuation of all camps, and everyone is protected in this regard. The procedure is different, as you yourself have indicated, in a situation which poses an imminent danger to public order. Once compliance with the rules has been laid down, the prefect may intervene under conditions derogating from the ordinary law, which allow for forced evacuation and which correspond, as the minister pointed out, to precise and clearly laid down rules by the Constitutional Council. The answers are therefore given. However, it is not a question, for reasons of law but also of evidence, of extending the capacity for forced intervention without a judge, provided that the circumstances, including legal circumstances, do not lend themselves to it. It would be a serious drift from our right. We must therefore reject Mr Saddier's amendment and the others who follow it logically.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u349	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u350	Article 5 is of major importance for the operative part. Since the beginning of our discussions on this text on Travellers, we have been making sure that authority is not exercised or exercised, even when the communes respect the rule. Madam Minister, the two arrondissements of Marseilles, of which I was mayor, fulfilled the obligations as reception areas for Travellers, but as they were surrounded by communes that did not have such areas, they were doubly penalized. Not only was this reception area overflowing, but there were, what you do not have at home, in Côte-d'Or, Monsieur Paris, large passages that were illegally carried out near the reception area of the Travellers, on public land. However, even if the law existed, it was impossible to evacuate these public lands; So the evacuation was done at the goodwill of the Travellers, despite all the procedures that my colleagues and I were able to initiate. The problem with the deletion of section 5 is that the associations accompanying Travellers provide them with perfect information so that they can divert the text and spirit from the law. How can we explain to our fellow citizens that when an evacuation procedure is completed for a caravan installed on cadastral plot 412, it is enough for its owner to move on plot 413 so that we are obliged to start all over again from the beginning? That is why it is very important for us that the evacuation of the illicitly occupied land can take place at the IEP level. The deletion of this provision completely emptys the text of its substance. We wish, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt a text which will help to overcome the current impasse in the reception and acceptance of travellers. You empty this text of its substance; We will not be able to accept this misuse of the opportunity offered to us, in a parliamentary niche, to contribute to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u351	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u352	Mrs Boyer, having expressed what I meant very well, I will be very quick. Madam Minister, on section 4, I asked you about the municipalities that fully complied with their obligations and faced the issue of the evacuation capacity of the land, once it had been authorized by a procedure. You said that prefects had to maintain a great deal of flexibility to conduct this evacuation. Very often, in our ridings, we find that they do not have the means to carry out these evacuations and that they are just as deprived as the mayors in front of the illegal installations. Article 5 as drafted prior to its consideration by the Law Commission provided every legal means to move forward, even though I know how difficult this is. I regret that you decided to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u353	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u354	I am very surprised to hear of proportionality when one knows the cost to be borne by ten municipalities of 1000 inhabitants having a plan in order. What is proportionality? Spend every year 10000 or 20,000 euros to repair public facilities is considerable for a municipality of 1000 inhabitants. Of course, no one is indemnifying the commune, so I do not understand why we cannot have more effective procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u355	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u356	We regret, as we did last week in committee, this position on Article 5, because the current system is working badly or not. You are right, Mr Paris, that public and private land is covered by the law, except that this protection works very badly for public land and not at all for private land. The procedures, as you know, which are familiar with the subject, are not at all the same for public and private land. I would like to reply to our colleague Xavier Roseren, who seems to have left. The service of the meeting announced the beginning of our work on this text at around eighteen o'clock; They started at eighteen forty-five and there was only one suspension of the sitting. As we and our group and the rapporteur have tabled amendments, we could have asked for one speaker for each amendment; We did not do so, except in Article 5 which we had clearly presented as the heart of the text. In addition, the presiding officer will confirm that it is not possible to inscribe speakers on deleted items.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u357	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u358	This means that there have been very few speakers inscribed on the articles. All this to say that there was no obstruction on the part of anyone. Madam rapporteur and Minister, I would also like to thank you for your very precise answers. We disagree on everything, but you used the formula "we have time". Indeed, we have time, because the subject deserves specific answers. The spokespersons of the groups also spoke at length; Mr. Paris, even if we disagree, you have substantiated your arguments. At this stage of our discussions, we cannot accept that anyone in this House is accused of taking too much time. On the contrary, we were as fast as we could be. But given the concern of French and French people, and the respect we all have for Travellers, it was necessary to take this time to consider these amendments and articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u359	Mr Sébastien Huyghe, you have the floor. Can you respond to the rapporteur's request to withdraw your amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u360	That is exactly why I was taking the floor, Mr President. You've read my mind. I would like to see Amendments Nos 16 and 42 adopted by my colleagues Martial Saddier and Mrs Duby-Muller. However, some of their provisions, including time limits, do not go far enough in the light of the needs of the field. I therefore wish to maintain my amendments. If, by unfortunate chance, Amendments Nos 16 and 42 were to be rejected, my own would allow certain elements of Article 5 to be re-established. As Martial Saddier has shown excellently before, the law protecting public and private land remains very theoretical for you, Mr Paris, since you are not confronted with the problem. For Members who are, there is a need to improve legal arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u361	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u362	I thought I'd sing Kendji Girac to you, but I forgot my guitar. I am going to go along the same lines as the minister, who said earlier that we probably had to review our requirements on the reception areas or large passage areas of the Travellers. It seems to me that this is a concern that we can share. We are imposed extremely important standards, hard constructions fed by all networks for areas of great passage, while we welcome people who are quite autonomous and particularly well equipped, having the habit of travelling. They do not demand many of the facilities that state standards impose on us today. We are always looking for standards to be removed; There would be room to make gains in this area, and that would fully satisfy the people using these areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u363	Why have you not tabled amendments to this effect?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u364	I mean that the remark seems to me to be relevant and that we should one day work on this issue again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u365	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 16 and 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u366	Pursuant to rule 50, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall be adjourned at one o'clock in the morning, I shall adjourn the meeting. It will be up to the Conference of Presidents to set the conditions for further discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1180.u367	Next sitting, Monday, April 9, 2018, at 4 p.m.: Discussion, after the accelerated procedure, of the bill for a new railway pact. The meeting is adjourned.
