ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u1	I should like to inform you that the Speaker of the National Assembly has received a letter from the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament informing him that further consideration of the bill and the draft organic law on justice reform has been withdrawn from the agenda of this afternoon's and this evening's sittings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u2	The next item is the discussion of the draft law enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (No. 1388, 1461).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u3	The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u4	This public session is being held in a moment that illustrates one of the main features of Brexit in the United Kingdom: of course I want to talk about uncertainty. The House of Commons must, in principle tomorrow, approve or reject the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration on future relations. Despite the strength of the Prime Minister's arguments, it is clear that this vote has not been taken, and I will refrain from speculating on its outcome. One thing is certain: a rejection of the withdrawal agreement is possible. I say this at a time when Mrs May has just said that she was delaying tomorrow's vote in the hope of changing the position of the European Union, in particular on the question of the safeguard clause on the Irish question. This latter development must not make us lose sight of the fact that a rejection of the withdrawal agreement is increasingly likely, and the risk of an exit without agreement as well. Such an exit would undoubtedly be extremely costly for the United Kingdom, but would also penalise the European Union – EU. Some still imagine other scenarios and confusion remains strong in London. I would like to help clarify the situation and describe to you the issues we are talking about, starting with the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration on the framework for future relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This agreement and declaration have been agreed by the British Government and the European negotiator. The Heads of State and Government of the twenty-seven approved them on 25 November. It wasn't a moment of joy – for whatever you do, Brexit is basically a bad news – but it was an important step. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The withdrawal agreement reached by the negotiators is in essence a compromise. This is, as I say again today, the only possible agreement, 20 months after the official notification by the United Kingdom of its intention to leave the European Union. I would like once again to pay a very strong tribute to the European negotiator, Michel Barnier, who has served for fifteen years on the benches of your assembly and who has done a job of which everyone in Europe recognizes the exceptional quality of finding a peak path between the British and European red lines. All technical options were explored; all political priorities respected. There is no other agreement possible – I say it in front of you as we say to our British friends – and this agreement is a good agreement. It protects the rights of our fellow citizens who reside in the United Kingdom, allowing them to continue living, working and studying under the same conditions as today, just as it protects the rights of the British living in Europe. It shall ensure a fair financial settlement of the commitments undertaken by the United Kingdom and thus the protection of the Union's financial interests. The United Kingdom undertakes to fulfil its obligations during the entire period during which it was a Member State. This agreement provides for a transitional period from the British withdrawal until at least 31 December 2020, during which EU law continues to apply temporarily in the United Kingdom, which should allow a smooth transition to the future relationship. Finally, the withdrawal agreement helps to protect the specificities of the Irish question, characterized by a peace process that has depended heavily on the European Union and by the existence of a border that is not really one. After the transition period and in the absence of a future agreement, a customs union between the United Kingdom and the European Union would thus be established, together with a regulatory alignment of Northern Ireland with the Union, thus avoiding the re-establishment of a physical border on the island of Ireland. The withdrawal agreement is complemented by a political declaration that gives our future relations a framework of unprecedented ambition in the EU's relations with third countries. This framework will include, among other things, an economic partnership, a security partnership and a research partnership. In particular – and France, which had made it one of its priorities, has taken special care of this – both the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration, which has the support of the British Government, specify that a fisheries agreement will have to be concluded by July 2020, therefore well before the end of the transitional period, and that it will have to be based, inter alia, on reciprocal access to the waters of the two parties as well as on the shares of existing fishing quotas. We will pay particular attention to the negotiation and satisfactory conclusion of this agreement. We will also be very vigilant, and the whole European Council with us, to maintain a level playing field between the United Kingdom and the European Union, regardless of the form of the future relationship. This is particularly the case with regard to alignment with European environmental standards: it is essential, otherwise we would only have the choice between accepting that our companies are subjected to unfair competition or abandoning our future environmental ambitions in Europe. So here's what would happen to Brexit if the withdrawal agreement was ratified. But, as I said at the outset, this ratification depends on a British political situation which we must call unceremonious. That is why we have concluded that we need to prepare ourselves, both Member States and the European Commission, for all scenarios, including an exit without agreement. As early as March this year, the European Council asked both the institutions and the Member States to do so. A dedicated team within the Secretariat-General of the Commission shall identify measures that should be taken in areas falling within the Union's competence, including citizens' rights, financial services, transport, customs and health controls, personal data protection, fisheries or climate. We work closely with them. Together, the Commission and the Member States have agreed on common principles: contingency measures should not be as beneficial to the United Kingdom as membership of the Union or the withdrawal agreement; they are temporary in nature; they may be revoked; Finally, they do not replace the need for private economic actors to take their own preparatory measures. At the national level, it is our collective responsibility, both that of the Government and that of Parliament, to prepare ourselves seriously for all the assumptions, including that of withdrawal without agreement. This is the purpose of this bill, tabled on October 3 in Council of Ministers, adopted by the Senate on November 6, passed by the Special Committee on December 5, which I have the honour to present to you today. On this occasion, I would like to thank President Jean-Louis Bourlanges, rapporteur Alexandre Holroyd and the members of the committee for their very important work, which has made it possible to improve the text. The Government seeks Parliament's authorization to take the necessary measures by order, either for some of them in the event of a withdrawal agreement, or – and they are the most numerous – in the event of a lack of agreement, in three major blocks of areas: the situation of French nationals and, in general, French interests; the situation of the British in France; and the movement of persons and goods. The choice of authorisation, which allows for greater flexibility, is essential here in view of the stakes as well as the possibility of having to apply measures in very fast time, as the deadline of 30 March 2019 approaches. In particular, we must be able to adjust our arrangements to take account of the measures that would be taken by the British Government, but also by the Commission as regards Community powers and by the other Member States as regards them. The Government has sought the best possible balance between the constitutional requirement for precise authorization, as provided for in article 38 of our Constitution, and the need for flexibility imposed by the context in which we find ourselves. Before I go back to some aspects of the text, I would like to point out that very important points are not dealt with, simply because they do not fall within the scope of the Brexit law and therefore fall within the scope of the order. This is for example the case of air transport, mainly governed by Community law, or fisheries, which represents an integrated policy of the European Union. The Government will naturally act with vigour in these areas, but it will do so both in Brussels, to influence the determination of Community measures, and in France, in the regulatory field. With regard to the concerns related to the management of migration flows, I would like to recall a number of points here. The bill deals with issues relating to the entry and stay of the British in France. With regard to the particularly important question of relations between France and the United Kingdom in the area of border control, I would like to point out that they fall within the scope of a bilateral agreement, the Treaty of the Touquet. I have had ample opportunity to discuss with parliamentarians both the strengths and weaknesses of this agreement. The Government is particularly attentive to this and has already taken the opportunity of the last Franco-British bilateral summit to achieve substantial improvements, contained in the Sandhurst Treaty. This issue remains open and whatever Brexit will take, the Government is determined to pursue firmly the defence of French interests in the management of migration flows to the United Kingdom. I turn to the main measures envisaged in the enabling bill. First of all, they aim to protect the interests of the French living in the United Kingdom who would return to France in the event of withdrawal without agreement. It is indeed necessary that their diplomas and professional qualifications be recognised, and that their period of activity outside the Channel be taken into account in calculating their unemployment rights or for retirement. These concerns are those of many French people I met in London last September. The Government has heard them and asks you to allow him without delay to prepare the measures that will prevent our compatriots from ending up deprived of their rights by 30 March. The defence of French interests also depends on the possibility for French companies, including a very large number of SMEs, to continue the transfer of defence products and materials to the United Kingdom when they have an authorisation. It is also desirable that our companies should not be brutally prevented from accessing interbank settlement and settlement systems from third countries in the United Kingdom, and that they should continue to use financial services framework agreements or secure existing contracts in these areas. I come to the situation of the British living on our soil. I want to tell them that they will be welcome tomorrow as they are today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u5	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u6	Many of them were unable to participate in the referendum that led to Brexit. They must not become hostages to a Brexit without agreement. The measures being prepared by the Government concern the rights of entry and residence, the employment of British nationals engaged in paid employment in France at the date of withdrawal, the situation of staff members and trainees of the French civil service of British nationality – the Government undertakes to ensure that they are maintained in their status – and the application to British nationals residing in France at the time of withdrawal of the legislation on social rights and social benefits. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We unequivocally commit ourselves to making every effort to ensure that British nationals living in our territory are in a situation comparable to that which they would have benefited under the withdrawal agreement. I call on the Government of the United Kingdom to make the same commitments to our citizens and to give them precise and detailed assurances as to the guarantees to be given to them in the absence of agreement. We will be extremely vigilant on this point: the French in the United Kingdom can count on our unwavering commitment. A third category of measures concerns the movement of persons and goods across the Channel. The Government wishes to be able to act without delay to ensure the continuity of transport through the Channel Tunnel and to put in place the necessary controls for the entry into our territory of goods coming from the United Kingdom without prejudice to the fluidity of traffic and the competitiveness of our ports. Even in the event of ratification of the withdrawal agreement, some of these measures are necessary for the construction or development of port, rail, airport and road facilities or infrastructure which may be required by 31 December 2020 by the re-establishment of controls on goods and passengers to and from the United Kingdom. This is the purpose of clause 3 of the bill. The Government is asking for room for manoeuvre to make these adjustments, especially in ports, because they, who were accustomed to managing intra-Community trade, are facing new challenges – but also new opportunities. However, the competitiveness of our port infrastructure is a priority of the Government. We will be extremely attentive to the measures taken by the British authorities in the same areas as those covered by this bill. It would be futile to seek precise equivalences as our systems and priorities differ, but we will be attentive to respect for the principle of reciprocity and ask the House for permission to suspend some of the national measures envisaged in the event that the British side fails. Before we begin the discussion of this text, I would like to emphasize two more points. The first is the urgency to act, because neither our compatriots, nor our companies, nor the British living in France would understand that we have not done our utmost to be prepared to ameliorate the consequences of a Brexit without agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The second is the fact that the stakes we face, whether in the protection of our national interests or those of our fellow citizens, go beyond partisan divisions, as demonstrated by the vote in the special committee. I hope that today's debate will also reflect the transparency of the challenge we face together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u7	I call Mr. Alexandre Holroyd, rapporteur of the special committee to examine the bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u8	On 23 June 2016, the United Kingdom decided by referendum to leave the European Union. A little more than two years later, we are here to prepare our country for the consequences of this separation if it is made without agreement. To consider this possibility is for us a imperative necessity but also a duty without rejoicing, and, as far as I am concerned, a grievous task. Brexit is clearly a losing-losing situation. The vote of the British people must be respected because its decision is clear, and it is not up to us to challenge it. However, we can regret it. We will all emerge weakened, both individually and collectively: economically weakened, geopolitically weakened.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u9	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u10	For more than half a century, European construction has also played an imperceptible leading role in our economy: it has enabled our SMEs to reach 500 million Europeans, and our citizens to know that 1 euro today in their pocket will be worth 1 euro tomorrow. But what was imperceptible is no longer so: thanks to the work done by the British authorities, it is now possible to quantify the added value of the European Union, by looking at the costs to the United Kingdom of getting out of it dryly. The result of a complete withdrawal from the European Union is, for the United Kingdom, a GDP cut of 9.3% in 15 years, 10% additional unemployment, a drop of 15% in the pound and 35% in the value of the real estate market in three years, €90 billion less for social security and €1330 less for public services per capita. Everyone in this House must be aware that this is the reverse of what the European Union brings to our citizens every day: security, prosperity, the ability to finance our public services and the means to give meaning to this beautiful word of fraternity, which adorns the borders of town halls throughout our country. Let us not be mistaken, the confusion that prevails across the Manche is the daughter of the unrealizable promises held by politicians today caught up in reality and confronted with the inevitable. The only progeny of their will is the impoverishment of those who have believed in the songs of Pisinoe and Aglaopé, and who are the most fragile of their fellow citizens. It is now widely recognized that Brexit has not had the domino effect that some coffeedomans promised and that others, no doubt, hoped. While it was meant to bring about the end of the European Union, Brexit shows us the danger of jeopardizing the construction that our forefathers built and whose sovereignty and security of our descendants depend. In the near future, the British Parliament will decide on the withdrawal agreement that Michel Barnier has been negotiating admirably for 18 months. Its vote is uncertain and, whatever the decision of the British parliamentarians, the outcome of the negotiations is far from clear and depends on many factors, not all of which are under control. Nevertheless, it is certain that at the end of the negotiations the United Kingdom will lose its privileged access to the single European market, British banks will lose their "European passport" to exchange financial services within the Union and British farmers will no longer benefit from the CAP, the common fisheries policy and cohesion policy. However, we are not at the end of the process and the ratification of the withdrawal agreement by the House of Commons is far from being achieved. In the absence of ratification, we will enter the unknown. A clever man who will know what the next steps will be, and whether the Union and the United Kingdom will achieve an orderly exit. Paradoxically, this makes the work we conclude today even more useful, more necessary, more pressing. The authorization that the Government is asking us to grant is traditionally justified by urgency. In this case, the urgency is connected with uncertainty and the need to act: we must indeed anticipate a hypothetical agreement that will lead within three months to an equally hypothetical withdrawal with uncertain and potentially disastrous consequences. These orders therefore seem to me to be particularly justified, and my opinion on this point agrees with the views of our honourable senators and with the overwhelming majority of the groups and colleagues who participated in the debate in the special committee. We are by no means the only ones in this situation, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium, to name but a few, taking emergency measures similar to ours. The European Commission itself has recently presented the modalities of its emergency plan in case of exit without agreement. In matters relating to national competences, we must work together with our partners. And I would like to pay tribute, Madam Minister, to the effort you have made with all members of the Government as well as parliamentarians to intensify the dialogue with the Member States which, like us, are proactively preparing for a withdrawal from the United Kingdom without agreement. You will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill must enable the Government to limit as much as possible the consequences of withdrawal from the United Kingdom without agreement. Limiting the damage is, first and foremost, keeping in mind the human, the people, the families, the people – our fellow citizens living in the United Kingdom and the British living on our soil. I repeat, European citizens and British citizens must not see the choices they have made under the auspices of a European citizenship that is perceived to be inviolable by a decision that they do not have. The European Union is a community of values, and fraternity is one of them. Our public service is honoured to have more than 1,700 British citizens who contribute every day to the quality of our public service. The vast majority of them participate in the education of our children and the enrichment of their minds in our schools and universities, while a large minority cares for our parents and grandparents in our hospitals, retirement homes and public institutions for disabled minors. I was pleased to note, during the examination of this text in the Special Committee, that all the political sensitivities represented on these benches felt the need to reassure the British citizens living on our soil by preserving their status, thus recognizing the place they occupy today in our society and that they will continue to have tomorrow. The decision of the United Kingdom to leave the Union, in which they have often been unable to participate, must not call into question the conditions of status and employment which they legitimately derive from their work and commitment. As a mirror, I have tried to improve as much as possible the prospects of our fellow citizens who are staying, studying, working, in short, living in the United Kingdom. I know the anguish that they have been living since June 23, 2016, that of seeing the life they have built lacerated by the too hasty signature of a sharp pen pen, forgetting that women, children and men are the heart of the issues that must occupy us. Young people and families made the choice to cross the Channel because the European Union offered them free movement, greater ease to find work and security for their social rights. These choices should never be used as a currency of exchange in the negotiations. But it must be recognized that, in many cases, and without unilateral measures, they will be the first victims of withdrawal without agreement. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam Minister, for proposing, in committee, to extend until six months after the date of a possible withdrawal without agreement the period to be taken into account for the calculation of social rights, periods of insurance, activity or vocational training. Our citizens must be allowed to turn around and take the appropriate steps if they were to decide to return to France, sometimes in spite of them. These must be simple, to be effective, and we will ensure that those concerned are fully aware of their rights. Whether there is agreement or not, these ordinances will also help to maintain the movement of people and the exchange of goods through this vital cordon, the Channel Tunnel. The tunnel is an economic lung for the Hauts-de-France region, dear to the heart of the members of the commission. Again, we all agree: professional recognition and licensing for the operation of the tunnel are absolutely essential issues. No malfunction can be tolerated for the benefit of our citizens and businesses. The tunnel is also the artery that links the continent to the British islands and a subject of European as well as French dimension. In this respect, it seems to me essential that the European authorities play an active role in ensuring its proper functioning, whether through derogations or exceptional financing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me finally welcome the conditions under which this bill was passed by the special committee last week. Through constructive dialogue, we have advanced this text, which sets specific objectives for the Government for the protection of our citizens. I think we have shown collective responsibility here. It is the role of the National Assembly to monitor the action of the Government and to find common solutions to deal with what might be one of the greatest geopolitical upheavals in recent years. Thank you for all these initiatives, these discussions and this sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u11	Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chairman of the special committee to examine the bill empowering the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u12	Alexandre Holroyd has just presented to you the results of the work of our special committee. I am not going to duplicate his work: I will simply clarify here the spirit in which the committee approached the task entrusted to it. It has done so by having in mind the feeling of the gravity of the deadline we are facing. It is no joy of heart that we see a great European State, an ally, a friend, leaving our common home. I would like to say that your special committee has had in mind a double requirement. On the one hand, it wanted to comply with the right of any Member State to leave the European Union in accordance with the provisions of Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon. I would like to recall in this connection that this right to start, which would have been described at other times as the right to secession, has indeed been recognised by each Member State only by the Treaty of Lisbon. Those who vilipend this treaty should recognise that it is thanks to it that those of the states that want to leave the European Union have the right to do so with complete freedom and respect for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u13	That's right! It's because of him that they want to leave!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u14	The second requirement which has animated us is the desire to lay the foundations, to the extent that French national representation can do so, for such a fair, friendly relationship and I dare say fraternal with its partners of ever and its friends of almost two centuries, the British. The Special Commission addressed the issue with fourfold concern. The first is the desire to help the Government to make the necessary decisions – and many things point to the risk of a failure – to protect the interests of the nation and to allow the British and French to continue to circulate, to exchange under comfortable conditions, because we consider the maintenance of a trade, that of goods and services, but also of creations of art and spirit between two great civilized and friendly nations to be a categorical imperative for politicians on both sides of the Channel. In this regard, the use of article 38 is perfectly legitimate. Secondly, we were committed to protecting the legitimate situations of the French living and working in British territory and the British living on our soil. We know the quality of the contribution to our development, especially in the field of education, of the subjects of his gracious majesty living in France and we tell them that they are and will remain welcome at home, provided of course that our compatriots enjoy an equivalent reception at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u15	Singing...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u16	We have also been concerned to scrupulously respect the articulation of rights and services between the European Union and the Member States, particularly in the areas of fisheries and air transport which the Minister has mentioned and which fall within the competence of the Union. During the two years we have appreciated and supported the action of the European Commission and its representative, Mr Michel Barnier. We appreciated it and supported it for the mix of firmness and goodwill that has always characterized its approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u18	[[Mr. Jacques Marilossian applauds]] The calm, patience and tenacity of Savoyard proved their effectiveness in this negotiation. We also appreciated and supported it for having, with the support of the Commission and the Council, maintained, throughout this journey to the heart of the unknown which characterizes this divorce procedure, the unity of the 27 Member States. Finally, we wanted to respect the deliberations and proposals of the second Chamber of Parliament. The Senate called for a better articulation of the purposes of the ordinances and the means to achieve them. We followed him on this point and agreed to a major remodelling of the bill's plan. We have followed it in the hope of paving the way for a peaceful and final joint committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Let me conclude, at the risk of going beyond my mandate, by expressing to you my fervent desire to see the work of our committee become largely useless and to see our colleagues in Westminster approve, in due course, an agreement which, respecting the sovereignty of the British people, will maintain as close a relationship as possible between the continent and the United Kingdom. I am a post-war child, I was raised in respect and admiration of the British people alone resisting Nazi barbarism. I know nothing more noble and civilized than a pro-European Britishman. I have the ardent desire for that Britishman to be able to make his voice heard within three months of the big deadline. Long live the cordial understanding of all Europeans!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u19	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u20	It is a thorny and, I admit, painful subject that we have to deal with today. Whatever I may say next, I wish in the preamble to say that the English remain welcome among us, and that the debt of gratitude that we owe to the English people for their tremendous solitary resistance against the Nazis and for the welcome that he granted to free France is not exhausted. Nevertheless, it is not feelings that must be left but facts – I think I paraphrase an illustrious man by saying that. So here we are in front of a Brexit – 650 pages of which we obtained the translation into French twenty days ago and which we reacted to by proposing a series of amendments to today's text which, to a large extent, have been retold. They will therefore not be examined when we think they should be, since they deal with matters directly related to this Brexit affair such as customs, taxes on financial transactions with the old City or trade control agreements. You see, in the background of Brexit, and as a consequence of it, we might find ourselves linked to the United Kingdom by the worst of the free trade agreements ever signed by France. For it is not only the separation from the English that we must look at: we must examine the consequences for the functioning of France and the European Union after the Brexit has been consumed. I will start by reminding my colleague Bourlanges, who, as everyone knows, I have the utmost respect for the firmness of his commitments and convictions, that I do not share, that in any event, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, under which the national parliaments do not have to decide on the Union's exit agreements, cannot have my favour. I am in favour of a referendum on the entry of any new country into the Union in our country, and I find it strange that the exit agreements are not subject to the national parliaments, to which I believe it is up to me to choose who enters and leaves the common house. There is therefore no reason to welcome the situation which will now prevail. I have just said that we could be bound by the worst free trade agreement we have ever concluded. Why? Because, in what has already been agreed, it is said that the United Kingdom will no longer be a member of the European institutions and agencies, will no longer take part in the decisions of the European Union, will not be able to sign free trade agreements on its behalf – that is the least! – but its situation will remain unchanged as regards access to the single market, customs union and European policies with their rights and obligations. In other words, they will do as they please and the doors will remain open to decisions they have taken. We can't agree with that! Let us pause for a moment on what is being called into question and which will not be discussed: bilateral agreements. For example, we were bound by the Euratom Treaty – the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community. What happens to the agreements signed with the French? All right, let's put this aside: what happens to the military agreements with the United Kingdom? If a European defence is already a view of the spirit since it would imply a common foreign policy, how can we describe the fact that we have concluded with the English, who will no longer even be members of the European Union, an agreement on the creation of a common projection force of 10,000 men? It's not nothing! A force for what? On whose behalf, and on what principles? I know the answer: on behalf of NATO, the institution that overlooks all the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u21	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u22	I am a supporter of NATO's withdrawal – I do not see why we should equip ourselves and organize ourselves to meet its mandates. The question of the breakdown of military agreements signed with the English was therefore raised. And I would remind you that we have also reached an agreement on military nuclear weapons, missiles and how many other matters of this importance, such as the carrier that we would eventually have built with them. But of all this, no trace! I do not blame you, Mr rapporteur and Mr President of the Special Committee, but I say this because it is part of the new reality in which we are entering with Brexit. After saying that, you have to step back on two points of history. First of all, we must ask ourselves why the English did not want to remain in the European Union. I know the fable: manipulated by a handful of racist, xenophobic extremists and what I know again, in a moment of error, they would have ended up voting against keeping in the Union... It ignores traditions that are at least as deep as the very noble feelings you have expressed, my dear Jean-Louis Bourlanges. I don't think that's it. I believe that the poor English people, like the French, have had over their heads a European Union that does nothing but cause them further suffering. For now, we see in our own country what it gives! People who have not understood why taxes are rising at such speed have not realized that, as a result of the organisation of the European Union, taxes are subject to tax dumping. We must therefore constantly reduce corporate taxes to the level of the so-called minimum. The same applies to taxes on persons, etc. So much so that, in order to compensate, everything that you can no longer bring in normally, as you used to do, you are obliged to take it in taxes. If taxes go up, it's because taxes go down.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u23	There's nothing like it! Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u24	And if taxes fall, it's because they're subject to tax dumping. In other words, there is a direct connection between the reasons why the French insurrection at this time and the prevailing economic functioning of ordoliberalism. The second aspect I want to mention is the point of view of history. If General de Gaulle opposed, in 1963 and then in 1967, the entry of England into what was then the common market, and the beginning of what we were doing to six, it was not that he had Anglophobic feelings: it was that he measured precisely the differences that seemed insurmountable, particularly in the way the English bought themselves, in the way they organized themselves or in their social law, among other things. He said that if they came, it would be to dislocate. What reasons did he have to think so? Mr. Bourlanges, you have exalted the cordial agreement. I won't. I cannot forget that the constant geopolitical tradition of the United Kingdom has been to oppose, in all circumstances, including at the time when the common market and the six-party alliance were born, any continental power. That is why they conspired against the French Revolution, then conspired, acted and financed manoeuvres against the Empire, to stick to these episodes... It's their constant history. But they were still caught up. Without ever ceasing to claim their special and special union with the United States of America, of which they have never ceased to be the advanced point, or the Trojan, or call it as you wish, – politically, they have never ceased to be – it is true that, because of our manners, exchanges, trade, the spread of the English language as a kind of Latin of our time, considerable rapprochements have taken place. They make the social cause, which is the root cause of divorce, all the more obvious. For, deeply, the English are not xenophobic. They are neither anti-French nor anti-continental, as we would like to make them believe. Nevertheless, let it be said in this House that the break-up of the United Kingdom with the European Union radically alters the geopolitical conditions prevailing within the Union. This is at least as important an event as the reunification of Germany, which, as soon as it took place, raised all sorts of problems in the balance of the European Union, so much so that on many occasions French leaders have come closer to the English in the hope of restoring a balance on the continent. I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are weakened. But I think we're at the bottom of the wall: it's about knowing what our relationship with the English will be tomorrow, not our relationship with the Germans. Will we continue to blindly implement, in all circumstances, the cursed doctrine of ordoliberalism that is destroying the European spirit? This is the political question asked at this time: it is not England, it is Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u25	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u26	I'm just raising the problems we're facing, that's all! I now turn to the question of frontiers. As you know, she is the one who is currently hindering what is called an agreement: the border between the two Irelands. There is no natural boundary. It is an invention, of the cardinal of Richelieu as regards us: one sees the Rhine, one sees the Pyrenees, and one imagines that there are natural borders... There are none: human beings have always overcome all obstacles! Only the borders that are given to each other, and which are confirmed by history, morals and exchanges, exist. That is why I come back to the idea of a necessary border conference in Europe. If I mention it today, it is because this question is in our face. It is not a trade problem, it is not a fiscal problem between Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland: it is the question of how people can live together, and how borders can prevent them or not. This issue of borders will re-emergence in many parts of Europe, which now appear to the superficial observer to be extremely stable. I'm done. The Brexit shows the French how much Frexit would be a mistake. We can't have entry or exit as a political line. For us French, without which there is no Europe, for us French, who are the second economic power of the continent, who are Latins, as are the citizens of the third economic power of the continent, the Italians, and those of the fourth, the Spanish; For us, therefore, the situation is such that the dilemma must not be between staying and undergoing ordoliberalism and the policy of the German governments, or leaving: we must reformat, recast, completely change everything, so that Europe can continue, so that peaceful relations between the peoples of Europe can continue, while what we are witnessing, as a result of the policy pursued, is the deterioration of relations between the peoples. Having put individuals in competition with each other, from morning to evening, by absurd and antisocial regulations, has led us gradually to put the peoples themselves in competition, to the point that some have decided to leave. I don't want that choice for my homeland. I don't want a German Europe. I continue to prefer Europe over French: that of universal social rights, shared by all peoples speaking a universal language. Health, medicine, education, exchanges: this is this universal language, which is summed up in the motto of the homeland "Freedom, equality, fraternity". This has nothing to do with the Volksgeist in which we exhaust ourselves in seeking reasons to be European, whereas we will find them only in the unity of social rights, in equality and in fraternity. What we have seen with Brexit is the failure of the spirit of universalism that should characterize us, if this Europe were more French than German. I know my adjectives can shock either of you. I would like in advance to sweep away the recurring accusation of Germanophobia. I will make it clear, as I have already done, that what I am calling into question is the CDU-CSU governments, the German Christian democracy, the dictatorship of Bavaria and some German provinces, which impose a rhythm, a form and a political line on the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u27	It's love!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] That's why we need to change it, and the sooner the better. Otherwise, you will no longer have a Europe. To force all the peoples of Europe to surrender to a policy that is absolutely contrary to the interests of our country – a young nation that needs investment and public services – is to condemn the European idea itself. But it is not the worst – for after all, it is only an idea, and others have been seen to be condemned by history. What will be condemned is peace. And I don't want that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u29	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u30	I will respond briefly, since it is a motion of rejection and I am somewhat puzzled, after President Mélenchon's demise, about the link between his strong convictions, which I respect, and the text before us. I would nevertheless like to respond to some of his concerns, trying to bring some elements that would reassure him. You have been concerned about the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. I would like to reassure you that agreements on this relationship will be subject to ratification by national parliaments. At that time, you will have the flexibility to express your agreement, doubts or disagreement on how we will organize future relations with the United Kingdom. You have described some excerpts from the voluminous withdrawal agreement – which, I confirm, occupies 565 pages. What you have described, in part, is what is provided for in a customs union in the event of a lack of agreement on the future relationship, in order precisely to preserve peace, which is dear to you as well as to us in Northern Ireland. This is not what is planned for the future relationship in general. [[Mr. Jacques Marilossian applauds]] You have been concerned about bilateral agreements: will they be denounced, are they even concerned by Brexit? By construction and by definition, the United Kingdom leaves the European Union but does not denounce its bilateral agreements, and in particular those we have concluded with it, which allow us today, for example, to benefit from the support of its troops and equipment in Mali, in Operation Barkhane, which helps our soldiers in the fight against jihadist terrorism. Like you, I never want to forget the debt we owe to the British. As to why they came out, and what the European Union was bringing to them, Alexandre Holroyd summed up very well the consequences of a Brexit on growth, on employment, on the future of the United Kingdom outside the European Union. You talked about taxes, considering that it was the European Union that forced us to choose our taxes. Unfortunately, I should say that tax powers are now purely national and lead to what you have rightly denounced: tax dumping. This is a subject on which we are focusing our efforts, so that fiscal harmonisation is possible. It is desirable in the European Union to avoid the phenomena that you have described very well, but today every nation is still completely free to choose its taxes and taxes. That we need a flattening of our tax contract, I'll be the first to support it, just like you. But let us not blame the European Union for national choices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] More broadly, you say you are hostile to Frexit and wish another Europe. We may not wish exactly the same, but, like you, I believe that the European Union needs to be re-founded. However, I think that at a time when we have to face the risk of a Brexit without agreement, when we must be able to respond to the concerns of the dockers of Calais, Dunkirk or Le Havre, to the concerns of French people who, at times, had gone to the United Kingdom to look for a job they did not have in France and who must return because of Brexit, we have a responsibility to protect the interests of our fellow citizens and our national interests. That is why I brought this bill before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u31	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u32	What a rich intervention, Mr. President Mélenchon! Unfortunately, I will have to respond succinctly. I simply note that you have forgotten, in your reading of British political history, the fight against Locke's absolutism; that you have forgotten that the United Kingdom has welcomed Marx, and also Hugo. To make it a counter-revolutionary country results from an imprecise reading, or in any case partisan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u33	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u34	[[Applause on a few benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir]] ... the relationship between the United Kingdom and the European continent. I also note that you have made a generalisation about the link between corporate tax in the various forms it takes in Europe and personal taxation. But many European countries face the same constraints as we, in the same world, because of the same treaties, and yet have reduced the tax burden on individuals. From this correlation, I do not know where you find the evidence, but it does not seem to me to be true in the rest of the continent. But I agree, of course, that if we adopted a programme like yours, which would cost EUR 100 billion, then the tax burden on citizens would be felt. Instead of responding point by point to your speech, I will tell you how deeply I feel. Last Friday, I went back to my constituency. As you may know, I am elected from the French who live in Northern Europe, including those in the United Kingdom. I attended a public meeting with one hundred and fifty or two hundred of them. For almost two years, they have felt like living with a sword of Damocles above their heads. What they expect from this text is not a metaphysical reflection on Europe, nor a philosophical discussion, but very concrete answers to the concerns that torment them every day, as soon as they lift it. The purpose of this text is therefore to reassure them: that they have the certainty to receive their retirement, to have access to social security. Several of our colleagues from Hauts-de-France are here tonight. They meet people who work in SMEs. What these people are waiting for is a very concrete response to what will happen, in the worst case, on April 1. They want to be sure that the Government has the means to meet their expectations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For some companies, for example, a transport company that depends on the Channel Tunnel, it is a question of survival. This is at stake in this text; on the question of Europe in general, we will have a very rich debate on this point next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u35	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u36	[[Smile]] President Mélenchon, I would like to express to you the astonishment that I still feel with regard to a characteristic feature of this House. I have been a European parliamentarian for 20 years; you are familiar with this institution, to which you have long belonged, and where you have sometimes even sat.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u37	It's low!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u38	In the European Parliament, in general, Members hold the same speech in committee and in plenary. I am always surprised that in the House there is such a dichotomy between speeches held in committee and speeches held in sittings – and this remark is also addressed to Mrs Le Grip. I feel like I'm in the presence, in committee, of friendly Dr Jekyll, who are turning into a Hyde misters into a plenary session! Mr Mélenchon, your group's contribution to committee work was very important, as was that of Mrs Le Grip's group. You have maintained your positions: the special committee voted for this text almost unanimously, but the representatives of your group have not associated themselves with it – they have indeed left before the vote. But it's no big deal: if you don't agree with this bill, you will have an opportunity to put it to the vote by voting against it, after we have considered the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u39	What a donor of lessons! Pretentious, come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u40	What you are proposing by this motion for a preliminary referral, on the contrary, is to cut the debate short. I have a comment to make...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u41	Keep it! We have nothing to do with your remarks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u42	...which does not concern you, Mr. Mélenchon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u43	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u44	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ...but all the parliamentarians. At the end of the day, I have the feeling that our Rules of Procedure are rather poorly done and that motions for rejection and motions for referral back to committee are in fact intended only to allow speakers in the groups to speak at length. I am pleased, Mr. Mélenchon, to listen to you for a long time, but believe me:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u45	[[Claims on several banks of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Forget me, Mr. Bourlanges! Talk to your friends, and leave me alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u46	Don't be insulting, Mr. Mélenchon, be respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... it would be better if you were given the opportunity to speak without this being an opportunity to cut the debate short.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u48	They don't even know what we're talking about, and they applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u49	Oh, it's okay! Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u50	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the amendment, Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u51	We have just heard a brilliant lesson in history and geopolitics...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u52	Ah, did you find that brilliant?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u53	... on the part of President Mélenchon, but the question may not have to be conceived at such a high level of thought. Today we must draw the consequences of the withdrawal of our British friends from the European Union. We still do not know, at a time when we are discussing whether or not there will be an agreement: the vote that was to take place tomorrow in the British Parliament has indeed been postponed. It would therefore be absolutely unthinkable for the Government, with the consent of Parliament, to lay down a number of rules in order to respond to the legitimate fears of individuals or businesses, be they British or French, as to what will happen as of 30 March this year. The rejection of this enabling bill, which seeks to enable the Government to take urgent and absolutely necessary measures by order, is not entirely responsible. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u54	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u55	I understand the reasons that led our colleagues in the La France group to table this motion of rejection. Indeed, as we have pointed out in committee and as we will repeat in the general discussion, the method of ordinance-based legislation is not the one we prefer, since it excludes national representation from the concrete definition of the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u56	So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u57	However, as we have also indicated, the situation is fluctuating and uncertain: if the withdrawal agreement is not adopted by the UK Parliament before 30 March next, emergency measures may be necessary. The Council of State has also approved the use of the order procedure on this subject. I therefore believe that this bill is necessary, provided that the Government's room for manoeuvre is sufficiently regulated. This is the subject of the amendments tabled by the members of the Socialist and Related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u58	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u59	The purpose of this bill is to protect the rights and interests of our country's citizens. To reject it would be to abandon the citizens of our nation. The purpose of this text is to respond to an emergency situation, a situation that we no longer manage: what is the point of rejecting it? I understand that the use of orders is an unappreciated method in Parliament, but to reject this text is to take the risk of a troubled discussion which would aggravate uncertainty. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The postponement of the vote announced a few moments ago by Theresa May reinforces us in the idea that there is an urgent need to act – as you reminded us, Madam Minister. The IUD Group, acting and independent, deeply committed to European values and concerned about the protection of our citizens, will therefore not vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u60	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u61	First of all, Mr Bourlanges, I register falsely against what you said: we were present in committee until the end, until the vote. We have defended a large number of amendments, which you have all rejected. We participated in this work, and you only objected to your propensity to give lessons, to play the general overseer: nothing else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u62	Mr. Mélenchon is my master in this field!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u63	The method you propose, that of orders, is an emergency method, without consultation with national representation. You want to pass quickly, forcefully, as usual, but the urgency in which you ask us to conduct the debates does not make it possible to work well. There are several gaps in your bill. It will not allow to renegotiate the treaty of Touquet, which becomes obsolete, since out of frame, since the moment it was signed. It will not resolve the border issue with Ireland. Above all, it does not solve human problems. You have spoken to us about taxation and trade, but you have by no means spoken of the people, the peoples of Great Britain, France and Europe. You haven't told us, for example, about seconded work, which is a problem because of the lex loci laboris – a classical notion in international law. Nor did you tell us about the conditions under which future agreements will be negotiated, which may be detrimental to French interests. You did not specify how the arbitrations will be rendered. Finally, your text may promote tax and, above all, social dumping. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The La France insoumise group will therefore vote for this motion to reject beforehand: as it stands, your bill does not guarantee France's interests because it has too many shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u64	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u65	A motion to refer to committee is intended to give Parliament more time, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u66	It is not a motion to refer to committee, it is a motion to reject it beforehand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u67	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You are right, it is a motion to reject it beforehand, which gives at least as much time as a motion to refer it back to committee. In the end, it'll be twice as much! Because the system in this House is that of a democracy of two minutes, all the time. What Jean-Luc Mélenchon has just done is important: it is a matter of re-establishing in their context the decisions we have to make. This is all the more beneficial when it comes to the European context. This context is very volatile: as Agnes Firmin Le Bodo has just said, Theresa May announced earlier that it wishes to renegotiate the agreement with the European Union. That means things are still moving. We will repeat this throughout this day: we do not think it was necessary to wait until now. As soon as the British voted, we knew that we would face a particular situation: it was possible to make arrangements earlier, under the old majority as well as under this one. But you preferred to wait until the last moment, waiting to be back to the wall, to demand the right to legislate by ordinance in order to protect French citizens in the United Kingdom and British citizens in France! But you know that we do not support even the idea of ordinances: we want Parliament, the representatives of the people to make the law, they alone and nobody else. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is well known that this bill will not meet the immediate needs of our fellow citizens if events are to accelerate. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports this motion to reject it beforehand. Theresa May gives us more time. That does not prevent us, as you know, the minister, from working at the borders, from investing immediately, from hiring immediately, from creating positions immediately: you do not need orders for all of this, you have the budget to do it! You could do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u68	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u69	Unlike my colleague Alain David, I do not understand the ambition of this motion to reject beforehand. In such a critical, sensitive moment, we must not make the choice of obstruction, of inaction. As the minister has rightly said, we need to anticipate events in order to be able to react quickly. That is why the Group of the Republic on the move supports the choice of using the order procedure. It is necessary not only to preserve the functioning of the European Union, but also to preserve our economy: I remind you that the United Kingdom is our sixth customer and gives us our third trade surplus. As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have met a number of companies: all of them have expressed their concern about the future of relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Measures have already been taken: I am thinking in particular of the recruitment of an additional 700 customs officers. With this text, we can go further by tackling a number of sensitive issues, including the situation of French and British nationals residing in the territory of the other country, the opening of rights, the movement of goods, the management of ports or tunnels. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of the postponement of the vote announced by Theresa May, a new party will be engaged in the next few days between the parliamentarians of the United Kingdom. We refuse to be inactive in the face of British uncertainty, so we will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u70	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u71	Mr Mélenchon presented us, with great emphasis, with his conception of Europe. There would be a lot to say, but unfortunately there is a wrong debate: this is not the question today. The question before us is whether we allow the Government to take urgent and practical measures by order to deal with a Brexit without agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, the bill is imperfect, and in a moment the Republicans will defend a motion to refer it back to committee to fill the gaps and deepen it. On the other hand, we do not question the usefulness of this bill, which we obviously believe is indispensable. We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u72	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u73	Colleagues, I have the honour to defend before you a motion to refer this bill to committee. I hope to convince you to adopt it. I should like to recall one point: the points of order are laid down in our Rules of Procedure. These are instruments at the disposal of the parliamentary groups, and of course of the opposition, to convey messages and express themselves. We do not intend to give it up. Let me begin by reiterating, on behalf of the Republicans, how much we regret Brexit, even if these words of regret cannot be understood as any question of the right of the British people to decide their future sovereignly. On 23 June 2016, when the world learns that 51.89% of British voters answer yes to the question about the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, it's a thunderbolt, in a sky that was already serene at all. Accordingly, on 29 March 2017, after many procrastinations and delays, the British Government formally notifies the Council of the Union of its intention to leave the Union by activating Article 50. An exit date from the United Kingdom is therefore set, at the time we speak, at midnight on 30 March 2019. Unless... We have learned that, according to a judgment delivered this morning, 10 December 2019, by the Court of Justice of the European Union, a Member State that has notified the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the European Union can also unilaterally revoke its notification of withdrawal. Far from suggesting that there would be a possible path for the future of the United Kingdom, but it must be noted that the long-awaited judgment of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg sheds significant light at the time when we are gathered in this House and the debate is raging in the United Kingdom, in Westminster and in the British Government. But let's go back to the motion for referral to committee. This is not a delaying procedure, but a call to reason, when a situation is banking, uncertain, unsatisfactory, obscure. Today, however, it is clear that the situation is in a state of uncertainty. As I speak to you, we have just learned that Mrs. Theresa May has chosen to postpone the vote originally scheduled for tomorrow in the House of Commons. London has roared all day with contradictory rumors, which will continue to spread tonight and in the coming days. We do not know exactly what the next parliamentary calendar will be and what the Labour's attitude will be towards the postponement of the vote that the Prime Minister has just announced. We are therefore immersed in uncertainty and expectation. There is much to bet that the British Prime Minister has no illusions about the possibility of reopening negotiations on the withdrawal agreement, which was very long and laboriously negotiated for 18 months and adopted at the highest level on 25 November by the Heads of State and Government meeting in an extraordinary European Council. But no doubt the idea of the current tenant on 10, Downing Street – we have reduced it to speculation – is to try to obtain the modification of the political declaration accompanying the withdrawal agreement and set the framework for future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. As we know, this political declaration is a very important text in addition to the withdrawal agreement, which is extremely comprehensive. It contains 185 articles and 3 annexes, a total of 585 hard-traded pages. I pay a strong tribute to the Chief Negotiator of the European Union, Michel Barnier, whose qualities as Savoyard have been described at length by President Bourlanges. I associate myself with these remarks, as well as with the compliments which have been given to him by the chairman of the special committee of the National Assembly. This draft agreement is the only one on the table. We know that. All Heads of State and Government have said so. The European Commission said that again this morning. The British Prime Minister also knows that. Nevertheless, the storms and tumult of the British government, despite the yellowish anger that roars and rises in our country, have not escaped us. Since mid-November, no fewer than six members of Ms. May's cabinet have resigned. The question of a new referendum emerged, in a risky but increasingly prominent way in the British public debate. Even the political forces most favorable to Brexit, to a hard Brexit, to an ultra-Brexit, now seem to be plunged into the greatest disarray. The first television debate planned yesterday on the BBC between the Prime Minister and the leader of the Labour opposition was cancelled. And, as we know now, Mrs May is seriously considering granting a veto to block the implementation of the negotiated "safety net" to avoid the return of a hard-line border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Such an amendment could have a profound effect on the draft agreement, but the question of "backstop" was put forward by the British Prime Minister herself a few moments ago as one of the reasons for the postponement of tomorrow's vote in Westminster. A first debate in the House of Commons on December 4 was marked by the cabinet's challenge, which had refused to transmit the Legal Impact Statement. This situation reminds us, by the way, that the French Government, too, refused to make public the opinion of the Council of State. However, thanks to the chairman of our special committee, we have been able to see the essence of this opinion, which is valuable. It follows that Parliament is not sufficiently informed of the purpose of the measures envisaged by the orders and that clarification should be given as to the compatibility of those orders with Union law. There is always, and again and again, here and abroad, progress to be made so that we can trust representative democracy. Such an ocean of uncertainty and anxiety should lead us to a little wisdom and invite us to take a step back because, obviously, we are not in the right tempo. The European Parliament has decided to postpone the vote on the resolution on the draft agreement in order to avoid any interference with the vote of our British counterparts. That is wise. No doubt, because of the special ties that have been between our two nations for centuries, such an attitude would be welcome on our part. That being said, the hypothesis of a "no deal" is much more plausible at the time we are talking, even if, once again, the questions are increasing as the day progresses. We must therefore look at the scenario of a hard Brexit from now on. This is what the bill that empowers the Government to legislate through our voting orders is trying to anticipate. We see this: the content of future orders will depend on the final scenario, on the vote that will take place in Westminster, knowing that the European Union, at the initiative of the European Commission, will have to take a series of contingency measures with regard to its powers. We should therefore have some room for manoeuvre in the next few days so that we can adapt to the changing situation. The European Council at the end of the year, scheduled for 13 and 14 December, is likely to turn into an umpteenth 'Brexit European Council'. It would therefore be appropriate to exercise wisdom and give a little more time to debate. This brings me to the second reason for the motion to refer to committee that the Republicans have the honour to present to you: the bill deserves to be worked out in depth. Of course, on the question of British civil servants – I am thinking in particular of teachers – a correct solution could have emerged from the debates in the special committee, with a new paragraph providing for the retention of staff members and trainees of the British civil service under the conditions of their status and employment, without a condition of nationality being opposed to them. This new provision introduced in favour of the amendments considered by the committee, in the event of a lack of final agreement, is welcome. By extension, the situation of British employees in France as natural or legal persons with a regulated activity or profession has been examined by the special committee of this House and, before that, by the Senate. However, we will remain vigilant about what the Government will propose in concrete terms in future orders – if there must be any – for the modalities of the right of entry and residence of British nationals in France. Whether those currently present in the national territory or those who would like to stay there for more than three months, the current law will have to be adapted to the risk of placing British nationals in breach of the entry and residence code and the right of asylum. Other topics have not yet found consensus solutions or are still causing concern and uncertainty. Thus, in the event that there is no agreement, the situation of French nationals is referred to the ordinances without much further clarification. We can only warn you about this, stressing the extremely sensitive nature of the situation of French nationals who would leave the United Kingdom to settle in France and who could no longer be granted unemployment insurance rights in France taking into account their period of activity in the United Kingdom, as is currently the case when they work at least one day in France. The calculation of French contributory benefits – old age, invalidity, accidents at work and occupational diseases – involving periods of insurance in the United Kingdom and France could only be based on the national period. Thus, without a more detailed, clearer, more worked scheme, French social security could not take into account the British periods and would therefore have to pay a lesser amount of benefit. In the current context, the Republicans believe that more debate, work and time are needed to deepen these issues and to establish with certainty the guarantees that will be provided to safeguard the interests of the French nationals particularly concerned. The same applies to diplomas, qualifications and professional experience acquired or in the process of being acquired in the United Kingdom before the date of Brexit. The Government's stated objective of identifying all the professions affected by a withdrawal from the United Kingdom without agreement, on the other hand, to take the necessary legislative measures to take account of the consequences that a withdrawal without agreement would have on them, also deserves us to come back to committee to deepen the debate. I note with satisfaction that President Bourlanges gave a flattering assessment of the value of the parliamentary work carried out by the Special Committee, and that he stressed the beneficial contribution of the amendments tabled by Members of the Republican Group. It is up to us to continue this enrichment, giving us more time to work in committee. Another major topic for France, agriculture and fisheries, also deserves more consideration. We talked about it, of course. We have proposals to make, which we would like to rework. While the discussions on the multiannual financial framework will last several months and are likely to drag on throughout 2019, there are serious concerns about the declines in the funds of the Common Agricultural Policy and the EAFRD – the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development – on which the Republicans would have wanted to be able to return. Last but not least, the management of migration flows, which has already given rise to lively discussions in special committees, cannot be evacuated as quickly as it has been. The strong migratory tensions we have known in 2015, which we have seen in the south of Spain for a few months, are a reality that the Government and national representation must take fully into account and publicize in the debate. You know how sensitive this subject is. For the Republicans, the management of migration flows must always be discussed publicly and, if possible, in the parliamentary assemblies, at the heart of representative democracy. I say this particularly on this day when a Secretary of State will sign on behalf of France the Global Pact on Migration in Marrakech without any debate in the French Parliament, contrary to what has happened in the parliaments of other major European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u74	It's deeply abnormal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u75	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u76	But to return to the border between France and the United Kingdom, it is, as you know, a source of regular tension between the two countries. The populations bordering this border are particularly affected. My colleague Pierre-Henri Dumont, Member of Parliament for Pas-de-Calais, will have the opportunity to come back for a long time. It is to be feared that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union will seriously reinforce all these difficulties. We want to make it clear – this is the subject of one of the amendments that we have tabled in committee and that we will be presenting again in public session – that the management of migration flows is an integral part of the interests that France will have to defend in future negotiations with the United Kingdom in order to define the legal framework for relations between that country and the European Union. This subject alone deserves to be reworked, in depth, in a special committee. Indeed, we cannot be satisfied with the agreements of the Touquet or Sandhurst, the result of which is that the United Kingdom pays France to keep its migrants, which causes a bottleneck. We would have liked national representation to have been able to discuss this extremely important subject at greater length and in greater depth. The few rather rapid sessions we have devoted to this subject should have been supplemented by hearings, by the consultation of a number of experts. Once again, this subject is of major interest, and the Republicans want us to recognize that it is an integral part of our country's fundamental interests. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, of opportunity, of timetable, because the uncertainty is great, because the government crisis is spreading in the United Kingdom, in order to guarantee us a margin of manoeuvre to adapt to the good news which may result, in the hours and days to come, from the decisions taken in Westminster and on 10 Downing Street, because the European Council of 13 and 14 December may bring about developments, both positive and negative, because, finally, many of the subjects I have just mentioned – without having time to mention them all – require a more in-depth and serious work by our special committee, I invite you to vote on this motion to refer them back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u77	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u78	In my introductory statement, I praised the recognized quality of all the work of the special committee chaired by Jean-Louis Bourlanges and the report by Alexandre Holroyd. Hearings have taken place, the committee has studied the text and a dense report has been published. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It seems to me that the Republicans had passed the enabling bill in committee. I therefore find it very difficult to understand how a text can be voted on in committee and then, in a public sitting, to request that it be referred back to the same committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u79	That's because you've never been elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u80	The parliamentary procedure escapes you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u81	It's parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u82	Thank you for speaking to me about parliamentary work; For my part, I'm going to talk to you about government work. I think some people have known him, but obviously not everyone has.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u83	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u84	In any case, I think that no one has worked on the departure of a Member State from the European Union – we are probably all in agreement on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u85	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u86	There is an urgent need: we are a few months away, if not a few weeks away, from the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. You said it very well, Mrs. Le Grip, we know a climate of uncertainty. What should we do? Wait? Cross your arms?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u87	You've waited long enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u88	Depending on the hustle and bustle of a British political life whose events this afternoon still show us how animated it is? The British set themselves the deadline of the end of January to ratify a withdrawal agreement. I take it that you urge me to wait for this deadline to take measures which should be effective at the end of March and which will ensure smooth traffic but not without controls across the Channel. This would leave our compatriots, the British residing in France, and the companies working with the United Kingdom, who have already suffered too much from the hazard and the lack of predictability to which they are exposed. I cannot follow you, Madam Member, in what would be a denial of responsibility to the Government, but also to Parliament. I therefore ask you to grant us the right to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u89	That is precisely what we refuse you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To repeat the remarks made earlier by President Bourlanges, this may be the first time that a member of the Government has appeared before the national representative, eagerly wishing not to have to implement the measures he is presenting to him. It will always be possible, if necessary, for us not to apply them. But if we wait, I don't see how we can help our compatriots, our companies, in case of Brexit without agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u91	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u92	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Member, I share the minister's surprise. Perhaps I am not familiar enough with the parliamentary procedure, but I am surprised to see a group voting, which is also unanimous, a text in committee, and then, four days later, asking for it to be referred back. I'm really very surprised – but, after all, why not... I am also surprised that you attributed to your referral to committee, in a way, an appeal value. It's a new concept, but again, why not... A third point surprises me. You have made several reflections on the lack of precision of the text, including reference to the opinion of the Council of State. However, this text has been passed through the Senate, which has done quite remarkable work, precisely by its precision, from which we have collectively inspired ourselves. If you feel that the text is not precise enough today, it is that you judge the work of our honourable senators to be unfulfilled. I confess that we do not share this view. We have taken back some clarifications from the Senate and added them. We discussed at length in committee the structure of each article. The Senate amended the text and supplemented each of the three articles with a clarification of their purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u93	We kept that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u94	You have referred to the British political situation which, it is true, is very complex and is currently in abeyance. But this enabling bill contains three main types of measures, one of which concerns – I turn to our colleague Pierre-Henri Dumont – the Channel Tunnel. Apart from the situation where the United Kingdom would remain a member of the European Union, there will be more border controls between that country and the Union in the future. The nature of these controls – phytosanitary controls, or not? Customs controls, or not? – must be specified but in all cases except this one, these orders will be necessary. They will be in areas to which you have referred, like fishing. Of course, fishing is a European responsibility and will be negotiated within the framework of the future agreement, but in reality – the minister will tell you, and we will talk about it again – part of the fishing industry, located in Boulogne, serves the British market through the Channel Tunnel – this is the case, for example, for salmon. In this case, if we did not take these enabling measures, we would condemn some of our SMEs, which are the wealth of Hauts-de-France. It therefore seems perfectly irresponsible not to take these essential measures...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u95	Don't make us feel irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u96	... for our SMEs, in view of the UK's exit from the European Union. Finally, you spoke to us about the situation of the French in the United Kingdom, which I know well, and I referred to it in my last reply to President Mélenchon, since it is, for some of them, my constituents. I know their concerns to see them every week. This text, proposed by the committee, responds precisely to what you have said. Not only are all their social rights guaranteed until the date of withdrawal, by application of European law, but the text, after the work of the special committee, goes further since it provides for a period of six months during which families wishing to return to France will see all their rights guaranteed, including in the field of retirement and social security. It therefore responds perfectly to your arguments. For all these reasons, and with some perplexity about the idea of referring to committee a text adopted unanimously, I give an opinion against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u97	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u98	I will not repeat what the rapporteur has said excellently. I am surprised, once again, that, in this Parliament, if we want to talk at length, we have to put forward a point of order. We should be able to allow parliamentarians to express themselves at length without being obliged to use these means!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u99	Let's change the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u100	What image have we given since the British expressed their willingness to leave the European Union and their hesitation with regard to the conditions required? The Commission, the Member States, France, its Government and its Parliament have always been firm, precise, determined, generous and anxious to follow a line. That force, I wouldn't want it to be broken. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that, in line with what has been done in the Special Committee, you are in favour of this text. We are not masters of British hindrances, but we have a duty not to add our own. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Patrick Mignola also applauds]] That is why, in my view, the real signal that we can offer to Europeans in general, and to the British in particular, is that of our peaceful resolution. How can it be said better than by voting tonight, after having deliberated as precisely as possible, after having discussed the amendments, the resolution which expresses the clear, generous, firm and resolute will of national representation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u101	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u102	We listened carefully to Constance Le Grip's arguments, which stressed the uncertainty resulting from the British Prime Minister's decision not to vote tomorrow on the agreement between the Commission and the United Kingdom and possibly renegotiate it. But I do not think that uncertainty should be added to uncertainty. On the contrary, today we must have the courage to allow the Government to take essential and urgent decisions. Furthermore, my dear colleague, we have already discussed in the special committee the issues that you have raised. We have initiated a real debate, under the leadership of the chairman and the rapporteur of the committee, which has given everyone the opportunity to speak. We started from a text that was very usefully amended by the Senate in its structure and content. Our role has been to improve it further, in a rather consensual way. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On behalf of the MODEM and related groups, I do not see the point, at this moment, of referring back to the committee a text which has already been extensively studied and analysed in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u103	The surrealism of this debate does not touch you for a moment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u104	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u105	Beyond the somewhat specific context in which this bill is based, I would like to point out that the Socialist Group is in favour of a citizens' and solidarity' Europe. He intended to weigh on the scope of the delegation which would be granted to the executive by a set of amendments. These amendments are aimed at guaranteeing the right of our industrial enterprises and those in training, not to unbalance the rights of our fellow citizens with regard to the benefits granted, in particular in tax matters, to those who wish to settle in France following Brexit, and to monitor the economic and financial effects of the measures adopted. Our position is realistic in relation to the uncertain political context that prevails across the Channel, while the British decision appears uncertain between a development of things, with or without a treaty, or a return to the starting point of the decision to withdraw itself. The recent decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union that this Member State is free to unilaterally revoke this amendment makes a new shift easier. It contradicts the European Commission's position that the United Kingdom should have asked the other Member States for permission to abandon the withdrawal procedure. The Socialist and related group will remain vigilant about the scope of the measures and the meaning of the provisions. Its priority is the protection of France's interests, with a practical concern for social justice and balance. That is why we did not vote on the previous motion. Even if we believe that this text can be improved, it is necessary because of the political uncertainty, illustrated by the British Prime Minister's decision to defer consideration of the agreement by the British Parliament. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We do not wish to support this motion for referral to committee, because we must move forward. As such, we hope that our group's amendments will be welcomed by the rapporteurs and the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u106	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u107	A motion to refer to committee is of interest only if aspects of the bill have not been raised or clarified. In this case, as we have seen in the Special Committee, this project has two objectives. The first is to respond to the urgency of the situation and to be able to adapt quickly to changes, to give room for manoeuvre to our SMEs and businesses, and finally to enable our country to be competitive. The second is to protect the rights and interests of our citizens. Of course, the orders deprive us of a debate that should come back to Parliament, but they are the best solution to meet the objectives I have just mentioned. The possibility to legislate by order has been provided to respond to this type of emergency, requiring rapid adaptation. There is no doubt that the minister will involve parliamentarians, if necessary, in the drafting of orders, in the same transparency and constructive spirit as the one who ruled during the work of the special commission. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the IUD Group, Action and Independents, will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u108	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u109	Our group will support this motion for referral to committee. The order, of which the majority has made a rule, must remain an exception and can only be used once the issues have been raised and debated. But the great uncertainty in Britain today prevents us from fulfilling this condition. Indeed, we did not have all the elements at our disposal during the debates in the special committee. We participated in its work, proposed amendments and made statements that the rapporteur and the minister had always evacuated, on the pretext that they were not part of the discussion. This further justifies referral back to committee. You do not seem to appreciate the political stakes posed by the debate on Brexit. Yes, this debate raises the question of the European Union, because the vote focused precisely on this subject and on the relationship between the sovereignty of the people and their European feeling, on the one hand, and the way in which they govern both in the Member States and at European level, on the other. Our amendments go into some of the issues that the committee has examined too superficially. On the agenda, as Mr Lecoq said, you actually had the room for manoeuvre to ensure a more serene and complete debate, but you chose not to do so. You prefer to use a tool that restricts Parliament's powers and follows an agenda that closes the debate's options. Our British colleagues give us an example of what really are representatives, regardless of the position on Brexit. For example, among those who are about to vote against the agreement, some wanted the United Kingdom to remain in the European Union. But, as a matter of principle and duty, these parliamentarians know that knowledge of all the elements of the debate is necessary to decide. That is the example we are calling on you to follow, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour of this motion for referral to committee and by being up to our responsibility as a parliamentarian. In Britain and France, citizens will remember the failure of parliamentarians to bring their demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u110	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u111	Our group will vote on this motion for referral back to committee, if only to be happy to speak again about maritime corridors with the Deputy Secretary-General of the European Commission. She explained to us that there was no problem, that the subject was non-existent, that she did not understand why we were talking about it, just before the Secretary-General for European Affairs, under the authority of the Prime Minister, told us that France was putting all its energy on this important topic, so that the French ports would be reintroduced into the corridor! For that reason alone, it is desirable to return to committee. But there are other reasons. I don't necessarily share all of Mrs. Le Grip's hopes: The Republicans may have the hope that the British will do as they do and deny the result of the referendum and the choice of the people, and that it would be enough to wait for the subject to disappear. We believe, on the contrary, that the people must be respected. Two years have been lost by two successive majorities. Yet we have known for two years that there will be a border.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u112	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u113	Yes, we have known for two years that there will be a border, because leaving the European Union implies the establishment of a border. Of course, more or less hard, I agree on this point, but there will be a border.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u114	With a customs union, there is no border!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u115	There will still be a border, even with a customs union! The passage of goods will be different, but there will be one! That was what had to be anticipated, and that was why it was necessary to work to place customs officers and investments where needed. There is no need for prescriptions for this, and we can still choose this path. That's what's at stake! We would still have some or all of Articles 3 and 4 to rework after the possible renegotiation between the British Prime Minister and the European Union. Did you see the pace at which our commission worked? Have you seen how little time we used for our work? We are therefore able, all of us here, to mobilize ourselves at all times according to the current situation. The latter invites us to be attentive and to mobilize on the remaining issues. Trust Members of Parliament, accept the idea of referring the bill back to committee in light of the news and decision of today's British Prime Minister! Have Parliament vote on Articles 1 and 2, so that it is respected! That way, we can move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u116	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u117	The bill we are considering today responds to a situation that we have not chosen. The British decided to separate their destiny from that of the European Union. They have made this choice democratically and, whatever we thought, we must respect it and draw the consequences. The British elected representatives will or will not vote for the agreement reached by Theresa May with the European bodies, as the holding of this vote has been postponed today. In this context, a return of this bill to committee would be irrelevant and irresponsible. In the event of a refusal of this agreement, which could lead to a hard Brexit, a "no deal", the French government would find itself faced with an unprecedented challenge, that of taking pragmatic, rapid and effective decisions to protect the interests of France and those of French nationals in England. It is worth recalling that these authorizations to make ordinances do not in any way exempt the National Assembly from its responsibilities and control prerogatives, which remain full and complete. In my constituency of Calvados, a border of some sort with England, the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union is felt as a tear. Many of us think that our British brothers will, no matter what, keep a very special place. This place is the place that history owes them, from the battlefields of the Great War to the landing beaches. But the time has come for efficiency and pragmatism: it is absolutely essential to give the Government the necessary flexibility to respond to the emergencies that will arise and to the unforeseen consequences of Brexit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the speedy passage of this bill, adapted to the situation, is indispensable. The La République en marche group will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u118	Excellent! It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u119	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u120	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] First of all, the minister, the parliamentary procedure allows for motions to be tabled to be referred to committee, which give oppositions the opportunity to express themselves and to try to convey ideas that could advance the issues. I must say that if you had listened more to the proposals we have made in recent months, our country may not be in the state it is in today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u121	And who dug the deficit?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u122	Secondly, we voted in committee on the text that was submitted to us because we are responsible parliamentarians: last weekend, and this morning again, there was a real urgency to address this issue this afternoon. Theresa May's decision, which we have just learned, to postpone the British Parliament's vote on the Brexit agreement leaves us some room for manoeuvre to work on certain points. Finally, it is a little easy, Madam Minister, to decree the urgency for the examination of a text, so we have known for two years that the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. You submit this text only one hundred days before the date of entry into force of the Brexit, March 29, 2019! Many points, perfectly highlighted by Constance Le Grip, deserve to be reworked. These include the British's right of entry into France, the situation of French nationals currently residing in the United Kingdom, particularly with regard to the unemployment insurance rights which we do not see as guaranteed, the diplomas acquired in the United Kingdom before the entry into force of Brexit, agriculture and fisheries, or the maritime corridors, referred to at the moment by Jean-Paul Lecoq and which continue to raise real concerns despite the answers, which may seem reassuring, of Mrs Borne, of the delegation of the European Union to France and of yourself, Madam Minister. On this last question, there are still many problems to be solved for the Breton ports – let me think particularly about that of Saint-Malo – and Normans. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All these subjects deserve to be reworked in committee. You have answered my questions, minister, but your answers call for new and many questions from fishermen and sailors working in these harbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u123	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u124	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 14 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u125	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u126	Before we discuss the general discussion, I would like to refer to the organization of our discussions. As we look at an important text, an organisation in another country is about to adopt a text that commits the future of the European Union in general and of our country in particular, and that is not something we can discuss. The Marrakesh Pact...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u127	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u128	... is being examined at this very moment. France sent a secretary of state. Minister, this text commits the future of the European Union. He is committed to the future of our country. However, it has never been examined by national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is a denial of democracy! That such an important text should not be debated by the French Parliament is even a scandal in view of democratic demands!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u130	We would like to express our anger at this denial of democracy, with regard to provisions that commit the future of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u131	Mr President, this is not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u132	Let us mention in particular Objective 4,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u133	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u134	... which provides that each migrant must be provided with an identity document, and Objective 5, which provides that every migrant must enjoy equal social rights with those enjoyed by nationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u135	Everyone has understood well, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are major provisions that should be discussed here, not in an obscure committee depriving national representation of any right of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u137	In the general debate, Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u138	The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union is certainly a British decision, which we respect. However, we deeply regret it. It is an act – as everyone knows – whose legal, economic and financial consequences will be severe for Europe – therefore for our country – as for the United Kingdom. The agreement recently reached thanks to Michel Barnier's negotiating skills and the tenacity of Theresa May, British Prime Minister, will not be adopted by the British Parliament tomorrow. Indeed, the Commission has just announced that it wishes to renegotiate certain provisions with the European Commission. In any event, an agreed withdrawal would probably be the worst solution. On the contrary, withdrawal without agreement would seriously complicate relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Whether an agreement is concluded or not, France – contrary to recent allegations – must urgently prepare and take appropriate measures, which will have to be implemented from 30 March next. Indeed, our country – like other Member States of the European Union – must lay down rules in several areas. These include the situation of the British living and working in France, the control of goods and persons to or from the United Kingdom, and veterinary and phytosanitary checks now essential for certain products – all in the event of withdrawal without agreement. This is the subject of section 1 of this enabling bill. Article 2 deals – in the same case – with the situation of the French subject to the British rules, with interbank licences and regulations, and with the continuity of transport flows through the Channel Tunnel. Finally, Article 3 lays down – whether an agreement is signed or not – the essential special rules for the development of premises intended for the control of users and goods within port, rail and airport infrastructures. This is the purpose of this enabling bill, which provides for the authorization of the Government to legislate by ordinance, in accordance with article 38 of the Constitution. The use of orders seems to us to be fully justified because of the urgency in which we find ourselves, the uncertain position of the British and the state of the negotiations. The law allows the Government to prepare several ordinances. These – according to what we understood well during our hearings – could be ready at the end of January and will be the subject of a prior opinion by the Council of State. Moreover, the latter may subject them to a review of legality before their ratification by Parliament. In this regard, with the adoption of an amendment tabled by the MODEM and related groups, the deadline for the tabling of the ratification bill has been increased from three to six months from the date of the promulgation of the orders, which seems more reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u140	The enabling bill was considered by a special commission, brilliantly chaired by our colleague Jean-Louis Bourlanges and enlightened by the excellent work of our rapporteur, Alexandre Holroyd. Let us also recall the very constructive dialogue we conducted with Mrs Nathalie Loiseau, Minister to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who answered all our questions and made himself available – even early in the morning! – throughout the study of the text. During its consideration of the bill, twenty-seven amendments were adopted – of which only three were tabled by the Government – which helped to improve the text adopted in the Senate, but did not detract from it. The contribution of our committee has been positive. Thus, the Government has an indispensable and effective tool to solve the many problems that will arise. The MODEM and related Group, for its part, welcomes the adoption of six of its eight amendments. On his initiative, we have, among other things, come back to a provision introduced by the Senate to make temporary the measures taken by the Government. We believe that some of them are intended to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u142	Similarly, we proposed the deletion of a provision introduced by the Senate providing for the strict application of a principle of proportionality with regard to the objectives of maintaining the safety and fluidity of passenger and freight flows. In our view, this is a general principle intended to apply to all measures. The MODEM and related group also proposed to exclude from the scope of the ordinances the application of the legislation on social rights and social benefits to British employees who are required to carry on business in France in British companies which have chosen to settle there after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The committee has therefore reinstated the original text, in order to avoid granting British nationals rights in this area similar to, or even more advantageous than, those enjoyed by nationals of European Union countries. We have also introduced into the text provisions inspired by our particular vigilance with regard to the very precise conditions under which veterinary and phytosanitary checks on certain goods from the United Kingdom will be introduced, on the other hand, to the situation of British officials in the French civil service – just over 1,700 people are concerned – following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. As far as the maritime corridors are concerned, we have looked at the situation of our ports, not only in Calais but also in Cherbourg, Dunkirk and Le Havre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u143	And Roscoff!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u144	They must be integrated into the redefinition of the "North Sea – Mediterranean" corridor. Finally, we addressed the issue of fisheries areas. A new fisheries agreement should be concluded to allow French fishermen to continue their work in British waters, whose resources are scarcely exploited by our British friends. At the last European Council, the President of the Republic recalled the urgency of the situation and the need to conclude an agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group. – The chairman of the special committee also applauds]] The MODEM and related groups subscribe to the very principle of the use of ordinances, as provided for in section 38 of the Constitution, and will enthusiastically vote on the bill as amended by the Special Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u145	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u146	The text we are looking at today is intended to allow the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, regardless of the configuration in which it will take place – an agreement or no agreement. Hasard – or irony – of the calendar, this debate takes place in the National Assembly the day before the day originally planned by the British Parliament to proceed to the vote – postponed, as we learned a few hours ago – on the chosen option. In any case, its outcome remains very uncertain and its outcome – whatever it may be – should be very tight. The structure of the text that you are submitting to us, Minister, invites us to analyze the two possible cases. However, in both cases the proposed wording is very imprecise on many points, as the Council of State pointed out in its opinion. Thus, the first two articles aim to "take the consequences of a withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without agreement". This wording is imprecise and does not meet the constitutional requirement that "the Government shall indicate to Parliament the purposes of the measures envisaged with a sufficient degree of precision". It is on this point that we diverge. Several provisions in this bill are vague and imprecise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u147	We're asking for clarification!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u148	In short, you are asking us to sign a blank cheque on provisions that remain rather vague, which risks – once again – accrediting the thesis that the essentials, in European matters, are still being negotiated out of sight, in particular that of Parliament. If an adventurous debate is decided by referendum, it is rare for the will expressed by their result to be implemented. In the context of rising populisms that we know, you will understand, minister, that this is even more unacceptable than usual. Since the proposed orders do not answer the real questions – at least those that I consider to be such – I will use this forum to mention some of them, first and foremost the re-establishment of customs duties. I will use the most emblematic example on this subject, Airbus – I could take others, but, in addition to the fact that my constituency is in the Occitanie region, it cannot leave us indifferent. The engines of the aircraft are manufactured by Rolls-Royce in the United Kingdom and mounted on them in Toulouse. A Brexit without agreement would result in the introduction of customs duties as early as April 2019, which would have one of the following two consequences: either Airbus pays these customs duties – which will increase its production costs and weaken its competitiveness vis-à-vis Boeing – or Airbus refuses to pay them, forcing Rolls Royce to relocate its factory – and its 12,000 employees – to the European continent. On this point, the French Government is silent, so much so that Airbus recently had to spend 800 million euros in order to strengthen its stocks before the fateful date of 29 March 2019. The costing of the consequences of the re-establishment of customs duties amounts to several billion euros. No evaluation was provided by the Government. For the time being, the number of companies involved and the amount of customs duties – in billions of euros – they will have to pay. My second point – a little technical, of course – concerns the management of financial contracts denominated in euro. Today, LCH Ltd, a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange, is the main player in clearing euro-denominated derivative contracts. It is a paradox that I have never accepted personally: the fact that the management of contracts denominated in euros is carried out by the London City – little concerned by the euro, in any case politically – poses a real problem to me. Brexit, whatever option will be decided by the British parliamentarians, must be an opportunity for us to take over the euro. It's a sovereignty issue. On this point, Madam Minister, you have to tell us more: the only thing you propose in your orders is that the European regulator has a right of control over clearing chambers in the United Kingdom. This shows one thing: you are in a defensive and non-offensive mode. I am not going back to the issue of bilateral agreements, which was addressed by Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Cementing the European Union is a necessity: we must strengthen our right. Brexit should trigger a surge of all European actors to reaffirm what our shared European law is, which is a force of strike. We need an offensive response, and that is not the spirit of ordinances; But your defensive attitude is not what we want for Europe, nor is it a response adapted to the political context, particularly in the face of the rise of populism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u149	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u150	I wish in the preamble to thank our President, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for his leadership of the work of this special committee and to commend the work of our rapporteur, Alexandre Holroyd. I also thank you, Minister, for your listening and for the answers you have given us. The United Kingdom has always had a foot in the European Union and a foot outside: let us recall the renegotiation of its financial contribution, its refusal to accept Schengen and the euro or the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Nevertheless, all of us here can only regret the choice made by the British citizens, even if we respect their vote. The consequences of the agreement lead us today to consider this text, which is designed to empower the Government to take the necessary measures, whether or not there is an agreement. Moreover, the adoption of the negotiated agreement between the Union and the United Kingdom seems to be moving further away, according to the various echoes we receive: no majority seems to be assured in the House of Commons and the vote originally scheduled for tomorrow has been postponed. This brings us closer to the possibility of a no deal, making it even more necessary to adopt the bill enabling the Government to take the necessary measures by order. But we must also take into account the possibility that there will eventually be no Brexit, following the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union which allows the United Kingdom to decide unilaterally to waive the procedure under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, without the consent of the other Member States. So the ball is in the UK camp. But the British internal political divisions threatening the hypothesis of an orderly withdrawal, the European Union and France must, I repeat, prepare for both the possibility of a no deal and that of a no Brexit. On this occasion, we should pay tribute to the high quality of the work carried out by Michel Barnier on behalf of the Twenty-Seven. It has maintained our unity and worked in our common interest. The implementation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union is a first and its consequences raise concerns, particularly with regard to the free movement of persons and goods. Every year, 25 million tonnes of goods pass through the Channel Tunnel: it is easy to imagine the consequences of a re-establishment of borders without preparation. The enabling bill before us must anticipate these situations. Given the context we have all mentioned, it is necessary to maintain some flexibility in these orders and to take into account the provisions to be taken by the United Kingdom, the European Union and each of the Member States. Despite the instinctive mistrust that the passage through the ordinances causes for parliamentarians, this enabling bill is justified by the need for a rapid response to the current situation: in the interests of our country, we must empower the Government to act quickly to adapt our country to the consequences of the British withdrawal. It is important to remember that the measures will not replace the decisions of the European Union but must complement them. There are several points that need our attention. We must remain attentive to the situation and rights of French nationals living in the United Kingdom. The Government will take appropriate measures regarding the situation of British nationals in France, while taking into account the status granted by the United Kingdom to our nationals in its territory. Care must be taken to safeguard the interests of French nationals, for example by ensuring that, when returning to France, periods of insurance and activity in the United Kingdom are taken into account, or that diplomas and professional qualifications acquired or in the process of being acquired in that country are taken into account. In order to best prepare for the possible re-establishment of border controls, the Government may, by order, take measures to accelerate the development of premises, the installation or development of port, rail, airport and road infrastructure. We also know you, Madam Minister, are vigilant about the fate of British civil servants who are at risk of losing their status and advancement. Indeed, it would be doubly tragic for France and for these personnel to lose the possibility of collaboration. I would also like to ask you about the possibility of launching a study on the port areas likely to be affected by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, in order to identify those areas which would need the creation of a free zone. Indeed, some French ports could meet the requirements and this measure would certainly be beneficial for their economic health, as well as for the preservation of local jobs and businesses. I do not forget the Government's indispensable vigilance on the corridors. The content of the measures to be finally adopted by the Government will depend on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations; It could even give up the adoption of some of them if the conditions are not met. The IDU, Action and Independent Group remains very attentive to the evolution of the discussion of the withdrawal agreement that is under way in London. If we remain hopeful that it will be adopted, we hope that all necessary steps will be taken ahead of time to deal with any eventualities. That is why we will vote in favour of this text, remaining vigilant with regard to the implementation of the ordinances it provides for, while respecting the powers of the Government and Parliament. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, I would like to reiterate our group's request: if necessary, we would like to accompany you in the drafting of orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u151	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u152	It is in the urgency of an unanticipated process that the fate of millions of citizens, be they British or other European Union countries, will be resolved in the coming months. French unpreparation is flagrant. However, this was an opportunity for national representation to hold a real debate on issues that structure the policy of the nation: Brexit raises the question of borders, customs, the evolution of health and technical standards, the status of foreigners, free trade areas and customs union... The French Parliament should have had adequate time for the substantive debates required by such a upheaval in the European Union. This is not the case, since the Government and the current majority have chosen to use the ordinances. The lobbyist sphere, on the other hand, has had the time it wants for a substantive consultation that will preserve, or rather increase, the privileges it has. In the negotiations of the future agreement governing trade relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, it is necessary to ensure that French interests are not subject to those of multinationals. Some proposals would lead to a weakening of regulation and the introduction of new rights for multinationals, such as the introduction of "special courts" allowing banks to prosecute, for example, governments that would adopt rules deemed unfair by the financial sector, such as the introduction of a tax on financial transactions. We prefer to promote the application of a financial tax that would safeguard France's economic interests by taxing British operators once Brexit became effective. This tax would be based on the British stamp duty, a stamp duty imposed on transactions in shares, which dates back to 1986. In 2001, the UK Treasury received £3 billion, or €3.6 billion, in the amount of 0.5% of the transaction. We could have developed an in-depth reflection on the stakes of a new relationship to come. It would have been fundamental to redefine the social and ecological framework for economic and market exchanges between France and Great Britain. Let us take the directive on the posting of workers, whether it be its original version of 1996 or the amendments made in 2018: it is an instrument of social dumping, to the detriment of the common interest of workers, as well as of States, to the most protective social norms. However, secondment exists outside European Union law, within the framework of international agreements. If we wish, we can guarantee that, by leaving the framework of the European Union, France and Great Britain will not pursue a similar agreement on secondment work, but that the Government will settle the issue under the classical principle of international law lex loci laboris. Brexit imposes on France the reconstitution of its customs at the borders with the United Kingdom. For years, however, customs unions had been alerting the Government to the adverse effects of the abolition of posts in French customs. Today 0.3% of containers are checked in Calais and 0.5% in Le Havre. The ministerial announcements in this area are in the right direction: that they be included in this Act and their implications reflected in the 2019 Finance Bill. Let us add the need to hire agents in sufficient quantity to ensure veterinary and phytosanitary checks. It is here that the inability of the Minister of Agriculture to respond quantitatively to the needs in this area sheds light on the degree of improvisation of this text. Before the Brexit vote, Emmanuel Macron, then minister of the government of President Hollande, warned that if the United Kingdom were to leave the European Union, "the migrants would no longer be in Calais". The Touquet Agreements, which entered into force on 1 February 2004, establishing the border between France and Great Britain in Calais, must be renegotiated. The department of Pas-de-Calais is not intended to play the United Kingdom border guards. There is an urgent need for serious consultation with actors and actors on the ground in order to give concrete consideration to a legal migration route to Britain. We call for the creation of a common asylum office in Calais, as suggested by the Forum des réfugiés et France terre d'asile. Thanks to your great insight and the expertise gathered in this House, let us use the few hours left to ensure that the text that will be proposed for the vote is respectful of the peoples concerned, of the humanism that we owe to the weakest, the exiles and the preservation of our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u153	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u154	It is with seriousness that we must consider this bill to empower the Government to make orders to organize the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. This act of disunity between Britain and the European Union marks the culmination of an avalanche of failures on two levels: the European one, of the policy pursued by the Union and one of the consequences of which is Brexit; and that, French, of the preparation of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, because we are looking at this text with the unpleasant sensation that we are in improvisation, under pressure of urgency, while this decision is known since 2016 – as if this majority expression of the British people was then a mood swing that reason would eventually take away. Some may have wanted, as in the 2005 French referendum, to use these two years to look for ways to divert and despise the expression of a sovereign people. Moreover, the European Commission was so intransigent with the United Kingdom in the negotiations that some might almost suspect it had tried to make them fail in order to achieve a Brexit without agreement. For a Brexit without agreement, punitive, would be an opportunity to send a strong message to the peoples of Europe, oppressed by a neoliberalism built into one thought by the leaders of the European Union. Think about it. In essence, what caused 52% of British citizens to want to leave the European Union? No one has any interest in turning away from the real causes of divorce, at a time when the rejection of liberal policies leads the people of France to stand up and mobilize, in yellow vests, red vests, white blouses or black robes. Not learning from popular expressions and demands will lead Europe right into the wall. In Europe, political power is concentrated in the Commission, which brings together unelected technocrats, ruling without any real counter-power, and whose ambition is to support multinationals, who come to use themselves on the backs of European peoples. Europe represents the padlock of budget austerity for life, whose criteria, such as the famous 3% of the maximum public deficit imposed by the European Union, were "invented in one hour an evening in June 1981 on a corner of the table", as explained by an advisor of the Ministry of Finance under the François Mitterrand era, and "were not based on any economic theory". Important advisors now find that this 3% is an aberration. And if we want to get into debt to prepare for the ecological transition, or to put public services back at the heart of our country, we cannot: this ideological and budgetary straitjacket prevents us from doing so. No one can claim today that Europe allows people to live better. It represents the competition between peoples. Detachment is the most significant phenomenon. Employees who leave for cheaper work in other countries have fed the resentment of the inhabitants of countries such as England or France, where they have settled. My region of Le Havre is an example of this. Populism was able to make its butter of this directive on detached work: extreme right and neoliberalism would they be the two sides of the same coin? Would they have common interests to be one face to the other? President Macron spends his time creating a divide between his supposedly progressive camp and that of the nationalists. In reality, they feed on the same phenomena, without ever questioning the true roots of evil: liberal capitalism. We must therefore break with this Europe, which we have said since 2005 that we reject it. Our vote and that of the Dutch people have been flouted and, since then, confidence, broken, is impossible to restore with the European Union and the Commission – and with others. What has the Commission done against this? She didn't understand anything, she didn't hear anything, she didn't learn anything. On the contrary, it pursued, by amplifying, its policies at the service of privileged people and finance. It has mistreated the Greek people, and today comes to give lessons to an Italian government that is waiting only for that to establish its popularity. With the treaties that gag people, it is impossible to continue like this. A wind of hope must be breathed into the European Union, with a profound change in its orientation and its treaties, so that they finally give priority to the social protection of citizens, to health, to housing, to education, to culture, to agriculture and to European industries. These areas must finally be harmonised from the top, with a massive investment in the ecological transition, while freeing themselves from the American tutelage of NATO, in order to make the European Union a hospitable space for humans forced into exile. The cessation of the activities of the Aquarius last Friday is another failure for that Europe. Yet the idea of a union remains important, but it must not be that union. We must put an end to the Europe of the least so-called social, fiscal or environmental. Europe should have allowed people to have similar rights, drawn up upwards: minimum wage throughout Europe, equal rights to work, fair business taxation. With a protective Europe, we would certainly not be here to discuss a text on the withdrawal of a State from the European Union. Nevertheless, the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union has emerged as a good idea for the British people, because of the phenomena I have just listed. But while the Brexit wave quickly broke through London, this idea was a long way to go to Paris. The question of the unpreparation of the two French presidential majorities after leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union is a real problem. Since Emmanuel Macron took office, things have gone too slowly, with the well-known exception of finance, since our ministers have very quickly proposed measures for "the attractiveness of the Parisian financial centre", in order to make the eyes soft to the traders of the City. When you want to go fast, you can! The representatives of the ministries successively heard by the Special Committee have been very concerned with vague answers, imprecise budgets and missing studies. For it was urgent, from the beginning of the quinquennium, that customs offices should have been built and the agents needed to anticipate this event should have been recruited. This government is so obsessed with the fall in public spending that it has forgotten that Brexit could enable, especially in the customs field, naturally and mechanically to increase public revenue. But to do that, we had to invest. To take only this example, the customs office of the port of Le Havre, in my constituency, can control only 0.5 per cent of the 2.5 million containers passing through its docks. Le Havre has only 25 controllers, who can make about two visits per day per person. The customs unions that I received on the occasion of the 2019 Finance Bill explain that in a time of mad and deregulated globalization, our borders are passers-by. Believe me, they didn't say that to me for joy of heart! For Brexit, the state has decided to hire 700 customs officers in three years. However, this increase is largely underestimated since more than 6,000 customs posts have been abolished in 20 years. To sum up, we see that governments know how to destroy the public service, but they have forgotten how to recruit and grow in power. I will also come back to the issue of maritime corridors. The Government has completely ignored this part of the negotiation and is now forced to row. The representative of the European Commission, when she was interviewed last week, put France's absence in the corridors as a mere technical detail. That's not true. To make up for this, the Government will have to ensure that the ports of the Channel and North Sea facade are integrated, so as not to leave trade with Ireland to the countries of the North alone. Would the European Union be making sure that it has only one port of continental importance at Community level? That said, this method corresponds well to the idea I have of the European Commission: above ground, authoritarian, and non-existent popular legitimacy. Let's go back to our text. It goes without saying that we will not vote against it, since it is necessary for France, in the interests of the French and British citizens concerned, to prepare for the possible upheavals of a Brexit without agreement. In committee, we chose the only possible human solution, without blackmail. But it was three or six months ago that this text should have been discussed! Again, it is this lack of anticipation that makes it necessary to legislate by ordinances. We could have looked at comprehensive texts, so that national representation could know how the Government intended to do so. It was not the negotiations with the United Kingdom that prevented this since two of the four articles of the bill dealt with withdrawal without agreement. By anticipating things, perhaps the vacant posts would have been filled, the customs services better prepared, the veterinary services trained, the nationals of our two reassured nations, and the fishermen better informed. The very broad prescriptions and lack of preparation, including on the ground, do not allow us to give you a white-seing. That is why the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain. But, beyond this decision, let us remember the referendums which, on European issues, all say the same thing. Otherwise, expect to see the yellow chasubles of angry citizens pour into Europe. Those who speak forcefully today in our country say with determination what we, for our part, have been repeating for years. There can be no development without social progress. There can be no wealth without redistribution or justice without emancipation. Europe must no longer be a flag for capital, it must become a banner for its peoples. Good hearer, hi!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u155	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u156	The desire for peace and economic and social progress has always been the focus of the European project which led to the advent of the European Union as we know it today. Of the six States that have made this European idea a reality, we have gone up to twenty-eight. Despite successive crises, the will to belong to this entity continues to grow. However, if Europe still attracts, its unity may now seem threatened. In any case, it is weakened by the departure of one of its members. After forty-three years of common life, the United Kingdom has announced its decision to leave the European Union, and this withdrawal must be effective in four months' time. Things being what they are, it is up to us to accompany this exit as best we can, in the interests of both France and Europe and the United Kingdom. Members of the Liberties and Territories Group, as well as a majority of French and Europeans, are committed to the construction of Europe and to the ideals of the founding fathers. Of course, today, hope has given way to disappointment, and even to distrust. Citizens feel that they are losing their identity, under the guidance of European regulations that are sometimes far removed from their concerns. Europe must act, and the fields of action are not lacking: precariousness, regional inequalities, the fight against terrorism, the promotion of the democratic model, the control of migration flows, the energy transition, major economic projects, support for innovation, are not only issues for States and communities, but also issues that need to be resolved jointly. We must work together towards fiscal and social harmonisation, which is the essential complement to freedom of establishment. It is also essential that the Union be based on territorial identities. They are a source of enrichment of the common culture and common sense of belonging. Our group is anxious to work towards a new confidence pact, based not only on the recognition of cultural diversity, which guarantees greater democratic legitimacy, as well as greater economic and social efficiency, but also on a positive and forward-looking environmental approach. Respected in their immediate culture and projects, Europeans will spontaneously adhere to the common purpose. More than ever before, in the run-up to the European elections, and as the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement is under discussion in the British Parliament, we must remain united, with respect for our diversity, and in this desire for a new project for Europe. Even though the British referendum of June 2016 was a shock, because we had never envisaged that one day a Member State would want to leave the Union, we should not consider the United Kingdom as a mere third country. The British voters have certainly expressed the desire to leave the European Union, as provided for in Article 50 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, but this does not mean that they oppose a privileged relationship with France, or even less that they renounce the European idea. The current political debates are evidence of this. Therefore, in the face of the uncertainty of ratifying the agreement negotiated for seventeen months with the European Commission – allow me, by the way, to pay tribute to Michel Barnier's work and negotiating qualities – we must anticipate the consequences of a hard Brexit, for the British citizens present in the French and European territories as well as for the Europeans present in the United Kingdom. Through the bill we are considering, you are asking us to empower the Government to legislate through ordinances, that is, to deprive the National Assembly of the legitimate debate on the content of the measures to be taken. Orders, even within the constitutional framework, are to be used in moderation, because, in the absence of a genuine parliamentary debate, they are often, a posteriori, imperfect texts. Let us not forget that for the great constitutionalists Guy Carcassonne and Marc Guillaume, "the parliamentary sieve has intrinsic virtues". However, because of the very short time that separates us from the effectiveness of this withdrawal, and because of the parliamentary agenda, which does not seem to be able to respond to the urgency of the situation, we must accept the approach that is yours. It is therefore imperative today to ensure that this announced separation is not the end of a story, but the beginning of a new cooperation for each of the parties. This is the whole issue of the text that is now before our House, which we are dealing with in a chaotic context, since we do not even know whether or not the United Kingdom will ratify the withdrawal agreement. The forecast is all the more difficult because Theresa May, as we know, faces oppositions from all sides, including within its own majority, and it was held in check by Parliament on 4 December last in a key vote on Brexit, before the other crucial vote planned for the near future. We are therefore reduced to assumptions. If the rejection of this text leads to a hard Brexit, many questions will arise, including that of the Irish border. It is imperative that the Good Friday agreement is not put in jeopardy. The least we can say is that the relocation of a reinforced border between Dublin and Belfast would be dangerous and counterproductive. Northern Ireland, which voted mostly against Brexit, faces a real risk of destabilization, while a fragile and contested balance was found after thirty years of a painful civil war. Gibraltar, for its part, will pose significant problems, and I am not talking about the possible impact on Scottish political life. Among the many other consequences of Brexit, there is the question of the status of the 1715 British civil servants who occupy a post in France. We have adopted an amendment in committee guaranteeing them the right to retain their status as an official, and we welcome it. More broadly, what will be the consequences for the three million European citizens living in the UK and for the 1.2 million British living in another EU country? What rules will be imposed on each other? We must also pay particular attention to the financial consequences. Before leaving the Union, London will have to fulfil its commitments and pay the contribution provided for in the current budget. There is also the question of the future of regional funds. The European budget will not fail to be affected, as the British contributed greatly. Therefore, the risk that these funds will have negative repercussions is very real, with equally negative consequences for the economic development policies of the peripheral French regions. At the same time, we call on the Government to be vigilant about the adaptation of the trans-European corridor, between the North Sea and the Mediterranean, which currently links Ireland and Scotland to the Benelux and Marseilles. It seems unacceptable to us that the French ports, especially Breton ports, should be abandoned in favour of the ports of northern Europe, whereas, geographically and materially, they are just as legitimate to accommodate this traffic. The Libertés et Territoires Group will also pay close attention to the fate of French fishing in British territorial waters, particularly with regard to the acceptance of privileged access. The importance of the waters of the English Channel, the North Sea and the Irish Sea is known. Today, integrated into the common fisheries policy, these areas could become inaccessible to European sailors. These questions are not limiting. One might wonder about the development of the single market – since the United Kingdom exports almost half of its products to the European Union –; about the continuation of the Erasmus programme and the cross-border research programmes – of which it is unnecessary to stress the extent –; about cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism; about the possible continuation of cooperation in defence. Madam Minister, I have just listed a few points relating to the consequences of a hard Brexit, but, beyond these considerations, it is the very relationship with the United Kingdom that deserves to be reconstructed, in a comprehensive manner, with respect for the privileged ties that history has established. Relations between the two parties could take the form of bilateral agreements such as those between the European Union and Norway or Switzerland, which would ensure the United Kingdom's privileged relations with the European market and the harmonisation of certain policies. As you will have understood, we will vote for this text, because it is imperative to react ahead of time to all the assumptions that the United Kingdom has withdrawn from the European Union, but we do not give you a blank opinion on the implementation of your orders. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom is a huge failure for the European ideal. The United Kingdom has always positioned itself at the margins of the European dynamic and has ended up turning towards exit, which speaks volumes of the Union's democratic deficit, its lack of breath and ideal, and the magnitude of its technocratic burdens. I have said, in these troubled times, of a deep economic and social crisis, generating a retreat and too often fanaticism, it is the duty of European leaders to act. As we have seen, there is no lack of cooperation. They are better than endless legal disputes or unfortunate efforts to distort the conditions of sound economic competition. The European Union must emerge from its technocratic gangue and reach a true human and cultural dimension. We have been able to give a body to the Union: it is time to give it a soul.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u157	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u158	Tomorrow should have taken place the vote endorsing the UK's exit agreement from the European Union in the British Parliament. Its postponement, announced today even by Theresa May, does not fail to remind us of the need for this text. Even with the most reckless optimism, we cannot deny that concrete measures will have to be taken if this agreement is rejected – which again explains the use of orders in order to respond urgently to the protection of our interests. The purpose of this bill is, therefore, to allow us to prepare quickly for all eventualities related to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. For example, the re-establishment of physical borders and customs controls will have to take place within a limited period of time. In this sense, we are also following the recommendations of the European Council, which, in its conclusions of 29 June 2018, prompted the Member States to step up their preparatory work with a view to withdrawal, regardless of how it was done. Although deeply saddened by the decision of our historical friends and allies, it is imperative that we draw the consequences of their departure. However, this exit does not mean the end of our relations and cooperation: these essential points will subsequently be the subject of extensive negotiations between our two countries. This empowerment project is in a very specific context and, although unwanted, this scheme must be considered in order to keep us ready for all eventualities. This is therefore the subject of this bill, which combines both prospects for withdrawal without agreement and more general measures intended to apply in both cases, when leaving the United Kingdom. The main measures concern the status of persons and, mainly, British nationals in France, the preservation of French interests and the maintenance of conditions for trade in goods and capital. Future relations between our States must not be built to the detriment of the lives of individuals who have built their careers, who have founded their families, who have invested and invested in France: we think of teachers, who participate in the education of future generations, territorial agents – in the development of public service – and all those who work daily in the service of our country, regardless of their nationality. Working in a special committee has restored the six-month deadline for the tabling of the bill to ratify the ordinances, specified measures that the Government will be empowered to take under the ordinances – or, any economic activity related to the United Kingdom on French territory – to reinforce the defence of all French interests which may be affected by these measures – especially in the event of a lack of agreement – and above all, to maintain for British nationals employed as staff members in the French civil service their status as holding agents after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Finally, this situation must not be seen as a failure because it can also make it possible to rethink the European integration process. The European ideal, albeit fragile, persists throughout the Union and we must rethink it collectively, but for the moment the first need is to prepare ourselves individually in order to protect as best as possible those who live and make our territories live. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, I therefore invite you to authorize the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u159	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u160	On 29 March, at midnight, the United Kingdom will leave the European Union, pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. For the first time in the common history of the recent political construction of our continent, we are taking a step backwards. Our role as national legislator is not to judge what prompted the British government to promise a referendum on the matter, nor why the British people decided to leave the European Union at 51.9% of the vote. We regret it, we regret it, but we do not judge, for the people are always sovereign. No, our role as national legislator is to prepare France for the unique shock that this step backwards will represent. Let us be clear: there is no benefit to Brexit – apart from the extreme margin – neither to the British, of course, nor to the member countries of the European Union, in particular France. In the coming days, the British Parliament will give its green light, or not, to the withdrawal agreement negotiated between the Theresa May government and the European Union. By being realistic and given the latest echoes from Westminster, it is not unfounded to believe in the absolute need to prepare quickly for the no-deal scenario. This is the whole purpose of this bill to make a series of ordinances to prepare after March 29, 2019. I would like to welcome the work of Michel Barnier, the chief negotiator of the withdrawal agreement, who managed to keep the 27 Member States united in order to reach a balanced text, reaffirming the United Kingdom's anchoring in Europe, trying to find solutions to all the specific cases posed by this exit from the Union, from the right of citizens to the exit check and, of course, through the thorny question of the Irish border. We must bear in mind that, on the one hand, being outside the Union cannot in any way give the same rights as being a full member of the Union and, on the other hand, there can be no question of punishing the United Kingdom for the decision taken by its citizens, simply because leaving Europe does not mean leaving Europe. Any violence, any unjustified political brutality against the United Kingdom would risk robbing the British even more but, above all, would irretrievably harm France, since our country and, in particular, my constituency of Calaisis, will always be on the front line, on all fronts of the future relationship with our neighbours – whether these fronts are economic, political, whether they concern fisheries, agriculture, energy, health, the transport of goods and people or, even, the migration situation in Calais and along the coasts of the Channel and the North Sea. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in losing us in elucubrations, whether there is "deal" or "no deal", a period of transition or dry exit, a vote or no vote in Westminster, Theresa May or even a new Prime Minister: France will have to be ready, and quickly, because in a little more than three months, Britain will be "out". Members of the Republicans Group share the great objectives pursued by the Government in this bill and know that there can be no miracle solution as the situation is a loser-loser. Yes, ensuring the fluidity of traffic in the ports and at the gates of the Channel Tunnel is vital for the economy: every year 1.6 million trucks circulate for 21 million tons of goods transported, 2.6 million cars and more than 20 million passengers, while the port of Calais also allows the passage of two million trucks and more than 9 million people. It would be unthinkable to end up in three months with all this traffic stuck on our highways. Customs, veterinary checks, border police, capacity to absorb infrastructure: everything must be done to ensure that my territory does not suffer again the disastrous effects of the internal games of the domestic policy of our British neighbours. We have already given, we continue to suffer the effects of it every day and, moreover, I am not sure that this time we have six bourgeois to send in shirts and rope to the neck in front of the Queen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u161	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u162	Beyond the fluidity of traffic, we are attentive to the protection of the rights of citizens, both for the French living in the United Kingdom and for the British living in France, some of whom carry out missions vital to the proper functioning of our country – teachers, doctors, municipal councillors. A final solution must be found in this bill. Finally, we are firmly committed to the preservation of the common market and its security, particularly food. But sharing the main objectives of the Government does not prevent us from asking ourselves the right questions. In fact, only one question is worth asking and to which the Government must answer: will we be ready on the morning of March 30, 2019? We do not think so, we regret it, and we express our greatest concern about it, not that the Brexit question is easy, that the Government's task is not harsh as the situation we are experiencing is exceptional – we had it and are well aware of it – but it must be noted that France is not ready for Brexit and that the Government also has its share of responsibility in this state of affairs. The latter committed a double mistake. The first mistake is not to have anticipated further the preparations for Brexit, thinking perhaps that it would not happen or imagining a second vote, which is to ignore British parliamentary practice and respect for democracy, quite different it is true of the view that the current majority has, in France, of our political system. How can we explain that, no later than last week, the Minister of Agriculture was unable to tell us exactly how many veterinarians are needed in Brexit, even explaining to us that the 40 items provided for in Budget 2019 are already insufficient? I am not even talking here about the number of customs officers, which I still think is largely insufficient to cover the entire national territory and, in particular, the coastal regions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] How can we tolerate that no infrastructure is ready for customs, veterinary or phytosanitary control and that no building permits have even been deposited? How can we accept that the simple choice of location of a control area in Calais has been the subject of eight meetings in recent months and that no decision has yet been taken? Calais, Dieppe, Boulogne, Dunkirk, Caen, Ouistreham, Cherbourg, Saint-Malo, Roscoff, Brest, Le Havre: all these ports, to varying degrees, will have to develop their infrastructures within three months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u163	They're always the same people who are laughing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u164	But what is the Government waiting for? To install modular constructions on the evening of March 29th? It's incomprehensible! This impreparation even shocked the European Commission. Audited by our committee, its representatives said that the infrastructure development work should have started a long time ago and that there was no reason to wait for the House of Commons to vote to start building buildings that have been known to be necessary for the past two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u165	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u166	Your impreparation is also evident on the issue of maritime corridors, since the French government, unlike the Flemish government, for example, did not even deign to respond to the first phase of consultation, waiting for the communication from the European Commission at the heart of the summer to trigger – with apparent success, it is true – the ORSEC plan. If your first fault is that you did not prepare our country for Brexit, the second is that you have not been able to make this major political fact an instrument for putting our policies down with the United Kingdom, especially in the area of migration. I hardly dare to remind you of what Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy, had said in the Financial Times in March 2016: he had said that on the day the relationship was broken, France would not retain migrants in Calais. By refusing to renegotiate anything about migration with the British, you are once again sacrificing the Calaisis, a few years after the same Emmanuel Macron refused to raise his finger to save the French flag in the Strait of Pas-de-Calais, scutching the company MyFerryLink, its sailors, its families, its fleet and its prestige. This is starting to do a lot for one man, even today President of the Republic! Minister, the renegotiation of the Touquet accords at Sandhurst was a vast fumistry. Since then, nothing has changed: the English continue to pay for barbed wire and cameras, and migrants continue to wander through the English Channel in Calais. The only thing that has changed is the number of migrants, since they are now 30% more numerous than when the Sandhurst agreements were signed and that they are now trying every night, at the risk of their lives, to cross the sea on makeshift rafiots, risking transforming the Channel into a new Mediterranean. In Sandhurst, you didn't negotiate anything! By refusing to take advantage of Brexit to sign a new global migration agreement, for example, allowing migrants stuck in Calais to apply for asylum in France or Europe, since they obviously do not want to stay with us, you make a moral mistake and let yourself pass a unique opportunity. Because of you, we will remain the eternal subcontractors of British migration policy – and we will have to do so with a smile! In addition, the increased control time for heavy goods vehicles poses a threat of a call for air, as these trucks on highways are easy prey for smugglers. On the day of the signing of the Marrakesh Pact, I see it as a symbol of the laxity that characterizes your government in this area. It's shameful. With regard to these orders, therefore, much remains to be done, and while the question of the future relationship with the United Kingdom is crucial, the Government must quickly provide concrete answers to the actors on the ground. Where will the infrastructure for post-Brexit controls be located? Who will pay, not only for their construction, but also for their access? How can we be certain that neighbouring countries will not be dumping controls, thereby jeopardizing the integrity of the common market, in order to redirect part of the traffic to their ports? How will the return of duty-free take place in three months? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you can see, there are many questions, 100 days away from the UK's exit from the European Union, and many unfortunately remain unanswered to date. However, in view of the scale of the work to be done over the next 100 days, given the uncertainty of European and British citizens and the magnitude of the economic disaster that is expected if the ports or tunnel cannot continue to function, Members of the Republican Group will vote in favour of this clearance project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u167	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u168	The relations with our neighbours across the Channel do not date from the last rain, and it is a Norman who tells you that. William the Conqueror, Jeanne d'Arc, Napoleon... Our two countries are historically and intimately linked. Sometimes linked in pain, when one thinks for example of the Battle of Trafalgar, then to the defeat in Waterloo, not to mention Fachoda, the French colony recovered by the English, but also bound by reconciliations and mutual aid in a more recent era, for example during the Second World War. Then the clichés did the rest: a folklore that the two countries maintain with humour: "Frogs" against "Rosbifs", we like to hate the English, and vice versa. Nevertheless, many young people, attracted by the country's economic dynamism, have long settled in London. It is thus more than 300,000 French who are spread throughout the territory of the United Kingdom, when nearly 200,000 British are now living in France. Finally, the United Kingdom is also one of our main economic partners, with 30,000 French companies exporting the equivalent of 3% of our GDP. The same applies to cultural, scientific and technical cooperation, which is developed through direct links between universities, museums, institutes, research centres or foundations. We see it well, it is a human history, strong and ancient, that binds us. That is why we deeply regret this withdrawal from the United Kingdom. We regret it, but we accept it, because it is the choice of the British people, a sovereign choice. On 23 June 2016, the British voted in favour of Brexit. On 29 March 2017, Theresa May therefore activated Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union concerning the exit of a Member State. On 19 June 2017 the negotiations on Brexit opened, and on 25 November 2018, at an extraordinary European summit, the exit agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom was endorsed, as well as a joint declaration, drawing up the guidelines for the post-Brexit relationship. There is now a great deal of uncertainty about the outcome of the vote in Westminster, which has certainly been postponed, but which will take place well. Some political figures – probably I should say some "bookmakers", when one knows the enthusiasm of the English for prognosis – predict a result with a dozen votes. For or against: ten votes could have enormous repercussions. The stakes are great. The Prime Minister recently said: "If people think we can still negotiate, that's not the case. For her, the British had a choice between a favourable vote, which would mark the beginning of a "glossy and better future" for her country and a "no deal", which would mean "more uncertainty and more divisions." The negotiations on our future relations with the United Kingdom are therefore beginning and will have to be concluded quickly. We must shoulder our responsibilities in these negotiations, and quickly. The Government's response is the bill that it is asking us to consider today. It aims to empower the Government to make a number of orders in response to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. On the form, the Council of State considers that this use of orders is justified "both by the urgency involved in the preparation of these measures but also by the conditionality of most of them". It would therefore be unfair, Madam Minister, to accuse you of this new recourse to the orders because, for once, it is justified. This should not, however, lead to case law. The Council of State nevertheless expressed reservations, considering that the purpose of the measures envisaged was unclear and that the scope of the original draft law was too broad. Fortunately, the work of the special commission provided some clarification, which our colleagues in the Senate had already done before us. However, questions and concerns remain. Whatever the hypothesis, whether it is a deal or a no deal, a hard Brexit or a soft Brexit, the stakes are considerable for our country and for our citizens. I am thinking first and foremost of the consequences for our ports, especially those on the north-west facade. As an elected member of the Seine-Maritime and a son of a sailor, I look closely at the consequences that Brexit could have on the ports of Le Havre and Rouen. These are real economic lungs for our territory – I know that you are fully aware of this, Madam Minister. I'm also worried about all the businesses in these two port hubs. I repeat, the stakes are great, since it is a matter of maintaining the current fluidity of the trans-manche traffic and of all the logistics resulting therefrom, despite the re-establishment of a border and a customs crossing. Fishing and fishermen are also at the heart of my concerns. There is an urgent need for a specific agreement in this sector. The French must be able to fish in British territorial waters, which are extremely fishy, or at least be able to receive European aid under the common policy. As a parliamentarian of Normandy, a region that has just placed itself second to tourism, I believe that work must also be done on the consequences of Brexit on this developing sector, which is full of promises for our territories. Failure to do so would be damaging and would deprive us of the arrival of many British fonds, we know, of "green" tourism, of gastronomic tourism, of oenological, cultural, memorial and river tourism. This is a considerable issue. Finally – although the list of my questions or concerns is not exhaustive – it is important, if not crucial, to fully involve local and regional authorities in the ongoing negotiations in an effective and concrete way. Regions, departments and agglomerations are already preparing for a disaster scenario. There is an urgent need to reassure them, as far as possible, and to accompany them. You often tell us, minister, that we have to smile in the future and that we will see later. But, as Winston Churchill said, it's always good to look to the future, but you can hardly look further than you can see.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u169	Very nice quote!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u170	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u171	On 23 June 2016, the British chose to leave the European Union, with a majority of 51.9%. Last week, the House of Commons voted, for the first time in its constitutional history, in contempt of Parliament, against Theresa May's government. Today, the same Theresa May, dancing queen in disarray, announced the postponement of the vote on the agreement between Great Britain and the European Union, because it knows that it has no majority, at the moment it is. The bill that we are discussing is designed to empower the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, following Brexit. The Government had initially chosen to delay this preparation, as several colleagues had pointed out, except for all matters relating to the interests of finance. The interests of the peoples pass and are treated with brutality, since we are in an accelerated procedure, without waiting for the result of the British vote, so that we are told to "send a signal to London". This strategy of pressure from British and French parliamentarians is, like many of the Government's strategies, totally out of the ground, in view of the progress of the debates in Britain and, above all, the stakes of this debate and the choices to be made by the British people. This wicked manoeuvre, which is straight out of the Manual of Jupitian Diplomacy, which is remembered the brilliant successes with the United States, Russia or Saudi Arabia, is not up to the situation. But, coming from your majority, we are now used to it. Once again, it expresses the profound contempt of your government and your majority for parliamentarians and peoples in France and Europe. Out of respect for our mandate as parliamentarians, we should take our time to do something other than to vote in cadence, by systematically rejecting and without reflecting on the opposition's amendments and by signing a blank letter to the Government. For our part, we will endeavour to hold a substantive debate and to address certain issues in particular. First of all, we want to reaffirm respect for popular sovereignty and the choice expressed in the British referendum. We refuse to allow future labour relations between the two countries to be governed by the system of secondment work. Instead, we propose that French labour law be imposed for anyone working in France. We are also defending the solidarity protectionism which imposes the guarantee of the material conditions of existence and the respect of the green rule in trade relations between States. We propose to introduce a tax on the purchase of shares of French companies by British operators and to align the rates of financial transactions with the UK rate. We want to renegotiate the agreements of the Touquet and Sandhurst, so that the Pas-de-Calais no longer serves as a border guard of the United Kingdom. These ordinances concern the movement of goods, capital and people – more precisely of "some" people, as it is true that not all of you have the same dignity and respect. On all these issues, we will propose amendments to you, which we invite you to vote on. This debate is important. It takes place at a crucial moment in Britain, France and Europe. The Brexit, in all the territories that voted "Leave", made sound the cry of a people for the return to a form of national sovereignty. The xenophobic expressions that have been expressed have been fed by the Europe of the City, which has put into competition the undocumented agricultural workers from Somalia, posted workers of Polish origin and these precarious British, whose rich Kensington or Chelsea mock by naming them "chavs", as others here speak of "nothing" or lazy. To regain control, to regain the power to decide together, as a people. To be able to take part and oppose decisions that affect his day-to-day life. These demands of the Brexiters, often from the poorest, the oldest, the furthest away from the city centres, the losers and losers of the financial globalization that is in full swing in the City, have a special resonance this December 10 in France, which everyone here, I have no doubt, perceives clearly. They echo those of a movement which has many similarities with that of the Brexiters, particularly in the profile of the persons concerned, that of the Yellow Gilets, supported by a large majority of the population. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] To accept these ordinances, when we know how they have been proposed and how we are debating them here, when we know the aim they are pursuing, that of influencing the British debates, would be to trample the British people and deny their choice, but it would also be to prepare new democratic renunciations for the French people. For these reasons, we will not vote in favour of your bill of ordinances, but we will propose in the coming months an alternative to the Europe that you are deconstructing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u172	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u173	In the preamble to my speech, I can only deplore the vote of our British friends, which was taken two and a half years ago. It is not for us, of course, to judge the sovereign process that led the British people to vote for the exit from the European Union. But this choice has led us, collectively, to spend our energy and our labour force on what is, quite simply, a shrinking European Union. The European project, aimed at bringing together people who have too often broken up, has been able to waver. That is why I would like to express my gratitude to all the Member States that have been able to maintain unwavering unity for almost two years of negotiations. These negotiations showed how difficult it was to unblock what had been built for years, thus proving our interdependence. The method used by Michel Barnier has proved to be particularly effective, combining firmness in defending the Union's interests and transparency of decisions. Maintaining the integrity of the single market and the free movement of goods, persons, capital and services is a non-negotiable requirement. A State leaving the Union cannot benefit from the same advantages as the Member States. A breach of this key principle of the single market would be an open door to the affirmation of a Europe à la carte, fragmented and inconsistent. We have also obtained guarantees about the future of the Irish border, the settlement of the United Kingdom's financial obligations, the role of the Court of Justice, and, last but not least, the rights of citizens. The call for unity was heard and followed by effects. A method involving all the institutions has been introduced to the need for a break-up. One of the lessons we will have to learn for the future is also that of the need for transparency. It will not have had the consequence of exposing any differences between Member States. On the contrary, it will have had a salutary educational effect among public opinion and political, economic and social actors. This model of governance, this method of work, must inspire us for the future. More importantly, this shock sparked reflections on the re-foundation of the European Union. We are taking part in it through the citizens' consultations on the future of the Union, the synthesis of which is soon to be given to the Heads of State and Government. We take part in this by strengthening the links between French and German parliaments. By the way, I will tell Mr Mélenchon that condemning the European Union is looking for scapegoats. For my part, I do not want a Union that is neither German nor French. I would just like it to be European. Brexit has made it possible for consciences to wake up and understand what was happening to us in the European project, the thousands of ties that we have forged together, from Member States to Member States, from people to people. The enabling bill that we now need to consider is based on an absence of ratification of the withdrawal agreement. It is clear that an agreement is preferable to this dry exit whose economic benefits, difficult to estimate, could be catastrophic. The European Union and the United Kingdom have a mutual interest in achieving an orderly withdrawal. If there is no agreement, our top priority must be to protect citizens and businesses, especially SMEs in our territories. Too few of them are really prepared for the economic shock ahead, the changes brought about by the re-establishment of border controls and even customs duties. We must therefore empower the Government to legislate by ordinance in the areas for which it seeks this authorization in order to anticipate any legal gaps and to prepare France for this unprecedented situation at best. Finally, attention should be paid to respect for reciprocity between the United Kingdom and the European Union, but also between the United Kingdom and France. We were able, in committee, to show that the fate of the nearly 150,000 British on our soil was dear to our hearts. We want to keep those British in the public service who care for us, educate our children, but it will be up to the British Government to preserve the rights and choices of the three million Europeans who live on its soil. Madam Minister, we know that the Government is best prepared for the possibility of a dry exit, whether it is the infrastructure to be built in ports or the information that should be made available to all concerned. Above all, let us think about our companies that need visibility. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Anticipating, informing, preparing, also means having the spirit of responsibility and moving from this shock that Brexit was and remains to our European future, in common.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u174	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u175	Mr President, Madam President or Minister, according to the grammatical choice, ladies and gentlemen, the question of Brexit should be debated, for a very simple reason: it is perhaps a signal addressed to us. By making the economy of this debate in Parliament, believing that the problems behind the curtains are being solved, we end up turning political life into theatre, which is a shame. This enabling bill has three critical features: it is struck by uncertainty – but it is not by the Government – by unpreparation – what is done by the Government – and by democratic rudeness. With regard to uncertainty, will Mrs May still be Prime Minister tomorrow? You will answer me that another must ask the same question without being in England. We don't know. We are moving forward in a kind of London fog, without knowing the legal bases to come, which is not the fault of the Government since political reality means that we do not know anything about the legal or even diplomatic fate of Brexit. At the same time, we have an obligation to protect the interests of France and those of our nationals. Will the way of ordinances make it possible to strengthen the protection of our rights and the defence of the general interest of our citizens? I don't believe it because there is no dialectic economy. We waited two years. Whatever your rhetoric, which I know is fine and beautiful, it remains that two years still represent the time of a debate, don't you think? We didn't. Why, in this case, legislate so late? Most of all, you're asking for a white-seing. What about customs formalities? What about the restoration of veterinary, sanitary and phytosanitary controls at our maritime borders? What about the maritime corridor, Dunkirk, Boulogne, Capécure, Calais? All these questions remain unanswered. Of course, you want a white-seing, but we still have the right to react especially when, modestly, we feel that we are carrying the word of a people who, today, have a great difficulty in being heard. It must also be expressed in colour, in order to be heard. It is, moreover, the only solution to be noticed by the deaf: that at least they see without hearing... Well, Parliament will not intervene and it will not have a say. All of this will pass until the day it no longer passes. We'll see the story again, we'll see the rhetors, those who handle the words with ease to convince us that everything's fine, that they're always right. To las cinco de la tarte: the hour of truth will come. That is why I would like to say to you that this is a democratic rudeness. Parliament has the right to intervene, to say its word, but the mere fact that the Marrakesh Pact was signed without ever having been debated in Parliament bears witness to the low importance of national representation. This pact will allow rights that have not been discussed to be granted. Although we are assured that it will not have legal value, it begins with the words "We commit ourselves". [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] I do not come out of the matter because it is a set that fits in with the same logic: to exclude Parliament from its mission. The concept of illegality will disappear, family reunification will be favoured, money transfer facilitated, but Parliament would not be concerned, just as it would not be concerned by the Brexit of the United Kingdom, nor by the 187 commitments which aim, as incredible as it may seem, at media education, at the need to reframe the speech. I see a link between this democratic catmini, this kind of democratic fear that is raging in Marrakech, and the one that surrounds the debate around Brexit. To silence each other, fear, and I regret it, that they speak loudly and loudly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u176	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u177	As we look ahead to this bill, many uncertainties remain around Brexit. The debate in the British Parliament seems more difficult than ever, many voices are rising to demand a new referendum and the Theresa May Government has decided to postpone the vote sine die. It has now been two years since Europeans and the United Kingdom negotiated, two years since British and European citizens were victims of the delays and reversals of political parties in the United Kingdom. This instability, this deep political crisis reminds us of what the Brexit was originally, a vote of rejection linked to deep and real ills but which have been instrumentalised, diverted for political purposes, unscrupulously committing the future of the country and of the whole Union towards an uncertain future. Tonight, the postponement of the vote is the umpteenth illustration of a Brexit that has never been thought of or anticipated by the British political class. Let us make it clear that this desire to postpone the vote after these two years of negotiations increases the uncertainty for citizens and businesses abroad. On the other hand, it is clear that we would not want to live with the uncertainty in the United Kingdom. That is why I wish here to support this bill, which provides the necessary answers and guarantees to our citizens, to our companies, and to all those concerned with Brexit in France. Because British choice requires us first and foremost to preserve our national interests, to preserve the status of our fellow citizens as well as that of the British citizens established in France, this bill allows us to prepare Brexit calmly, whatever the outcome. For if Brexit is a sovereign choice that must be respected, it cannot be done at our expense. It is the British people's choice for themselves, not for others, and I welcome here the unity of Europeans in the negotiations, which has helped to defend the integrity of our values, our foundation and the European Union. Allow me to pay tribute to Michel Barnier's outstanding work. Madam Minister, let me also welcome your commitment, and that of the President of the Republic, to ensure that France's interests are respected in this singular and difficult negotiation. Brexit must remind us that doubts arise everywhere in Europe: it is the result of a profound malaise in the face of contemporary globalisation, which is expressed in Europe and elsewhere. Of course, the anger of those who face it takes different forms from one country to another. In the United Kingdom, Brexit has been the wrong answer to real concerns, which can be found in other European countries, linked in particular to deep and often long-standing social and territorial inequalities. Brexit is, in a way, the political translation of the fractures within the European peoples, a tense mirror of the crises in Europe, as well as of the divisions between the north and the south, in economic terms, and between the east and the west, on the question of migration or the rule of law. In this context, Brexit must be the starting point for a profound overhaul of the European Union. For, we see, our fellow citizens want Europe, but they feel that Europe, as it is, is not ready to respond to their difficulties. We are debating in a moment great transformations, linked to digital and global warming, which are in depth questioning the foundations of our society and creating fears. These lead to a rethinking of the great balances that formed it so far. These upheavals give us a special responsibility. We must look lucidly, even if it is difficult, and ask ourselves whether Europe is able to respond to the great challenges of our time. I sincerely do not believe that China or the United States believe that Europe is today a power with strategic autonomy comparable to their own. If, however, we fail to build a new European sovereignty that will clearly protect our fellow citizens from the disorder of the world, then we are preparing for difficult futures in Europe. Whatever the conditions – I obviously wish them the best in the interests of all – the Brexit will take place on 29 March, two months before the European elections. The link between these two events is obvious. Brexit, the most disastrous event in the history of European integration, is questioning our fellow citizens: that is why we cannot allow demagogues and nationalists to carry out the worst idiots on Europe without contradicting them. We cannot follow further the apathetic logic of the conservatives, whose delays lead to a mortiferous immobilim in Europe for too long. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Yes, the time of truth has come. The policy of small steps is no longer tenable. Here too, we need to draw a clear line, which is that of a will for European sovereignty. We need to build the Europe we want and prove its concrete and effective results, in order to demonstrate to our citizens that the way of European cooperation is the only one that can lead to stability and prosperity, in the interests of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u178	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u179	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u180	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u181	The main purpose of the bill is to provide for provisions which will apply, mainly in the event of non-agreement, to British nationals legally resident in France. These measures concern in particular their right of entry and residence, as well as their social and employment rights. It is also a matter of preparing for the necessary control of goods, including animals and fresh products, which will have to be subject to appropriate sanitary and phytosanitary checks. In the course of our discussions in the special committee, there was a particular point of consensus. We have been committed to preserving the interests of men and women behind administrative situations. Thus, the specific situation of staff members and trainees of British nationality employed in the French civil service was the subject of an amendment tabled by the LaREM Group and approved by the Government. The Special Commission has adopted the retention of these staff and trainees in the conditions of employment and status without the requirement of nationality being opposed to them. Another point of vigilance is the means of control at our borders. The recruitment and training of additional staff is under way. However – this is the reason for this text – we must anticipate a withdrawal without agreement, which would lead to the full restoration of procedures at the borders after 29 March. I would like to go back to the fact that public officials of British nationality are estimated, in the absence of a more precise census, to be around 1700. More generally, all British nationals established in France should therefore be encouraged to report to the prefectures in order to apply for a residence permit. Finally, I would like to welcome the initiative of the Government, which created the dedicated information site brexit.gouv.fr, which is aimed at both French nationals living in the United Kingdom and British nationals residing in France. The principle of reciprocity is provided for in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u182	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u183	Let's get to the point now! As my colleague Natalya Pouzyreff pointed out, Article 1 refers in particular to the consequences of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom for natural and legal persons of British nationality subject to French law. We were all arrested on these benches by officials of British nationality working in France. They have expressed their deep concern about their professional and personal future in our country. I would like to commend the unanimous efforts of the Government, the majority, as well as opposition groups – not all of them, in the end – to ensure that British officials are kept in their status and employment conditions in the French civil service. The rapporteur undertook in committee to ensure that the Government respected the rule of their maintenance without conditionality. The Minister also confirmed their continued existence, whether or not they applied for French nationality. I would also point out that Article 1 provides that the power to legislate by order will of course only apply in the case of no deal. These orders are not a blank cheque, contrary to what some have said on various benches of the Assembly. I simply hope that Brexit will be settled in a clear legal framework, which limits as much as possible the damage done to the British, French and European peoples. American sociologist William Sumner said, "What we prepare for is what we will get." Yes, we must anticipate the coming turbulence of this withdrawal: Article 1 fully addresses this concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u184	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u185	I would like to strongly criticise the way in which the amendments were tabled: some were declared inadmissible before the public sitting after being discussed in the special committee. Is this the usual practice? I don't know. In any case, I am shocked that I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which the practice of amendments is relatively rare. I have the impression that there are different ways of dealing with problems in the House. As far as Article 1 is concerned, I agree with the two previous speakers on the situation of the British in France, in particular the officials. Maintaining them in their status without the requirement of nationality being opposed to them must not be blackmailed – I do not know if the word is appropriate. While the minister has given us the certainty during our work in a special committee, we still hear the rumour that everything will depend on how French nationals are treated by the British. No! France, that's not it! She's making her decisions here. If she decides that British officials in France will remain civil servants, it will be unconditional, as our colleagues have reminded us right now, Madam Minister. We share this idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u187	I also said that during the general discussion, when we lost 6,000 customs officers, you created 700 posts in three years. But customs officers count in a country: they are a wealth for it. Germany has 40,000 customs officers: do they make the German state non-competitive? No, especially as they actively fight fraud, which allows the state to raise subsidies when they discover irregularities. A customs post costs nothing: on the contrary, it is profitable. Bercy shows you this regularly. That is why I invite you to provide for the necessary number of customs officers everywhere, particularly at airports. Moreover, considering to redeploy them in case of express need on our coasts is tantamount to mistreating them: would that mean that they are useless where they are at present? This Brexit could also have been an opportunity to work towards a European standardisation of control policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u188	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u189	We therefore begin our consideration of the articles of this bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Minister, this text is the image of all the action, or inaction, of the Government: always too late, always too little. Too late, because you haven't anticipated enough: I recall that this bill responds to the assumption of a no deal, that is, a Brexit without agreement. There was nothing to prevent you from coming to Parliament much earlier. Having not done so, you are now at the foot of the wall because, in all probability, unfortunately, the House of Commons is about to reject the agreement negotiated by Michel Barnier and Theresa May. So we have the near certainty of a Brexit without agreement on March 30, 2019. But your texts are not ready, nor are they, on the ground, the necessary material arrangements. This text, above all, is too little: not only is it late, but, moreover, it does not go far enough. He's not enough. It has many shortcomings, which Constance Le Grip noted. I will mention only one of them, among others, to illustrate my point: the migration issue. There is no word on this subject, whereas the French territory is a migration corridor to the United Kingdom. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On this and other issues, Members of Parliament Republicans will defend amendments to supplement and clarify the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u190	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u191	The European Union will live in the days or weeks to come a decisive turning point in its history. The British parliament should definitively seal the fate of the country. Entered into what was then the European Economic Community in 1973, our overseas neighbours wanted to regain their full sovereignty and made it known to their government by adopting Brexit on 23 June 2016. Initially scheduled for tomorrow, the vote on the last judgement, as the British media call it, will take place shortly. Because, so far, the fate of our neighbours was linked to ours, both politically and economically, we can only regret the fact that the French Government once again chooses to proceed through the ordinances to deal with the terms of withdrawal from the United Kingdom. Yes, it is a good thing to prepare for all eventualities, because we must be prepared and organise trade relations with the United Kingdom, whether or not the United Kingdom finds an agreement with the European Union. I regret, however, that this discussion is taking place without us. Finally, you choose once again to pursue your policy in catimini. Perhaps the French would have liked their Members to be able to discuss more precisely the conditions under which, for example, the flow of goods and, above all, of people will be controlled or not. The French elected us not only to defend their purchasing power, retirement and security, but also to discuss what is happening in Brussels. At a time when our institutions are in crisis and the yellow vests are on the street denouncing an off-ground policy that has not met the expectations of the French for a long time, it would have been welcome to involve Parliament in this emblematic and fundamental discussion. Without that, how do you want the French people not to be distrustful of the institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u192	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u193	Article 1, which has been the subject of a lengthy debate in committee, must take into account the situation of British citizens currently residing in France. A very large number of Members, sitting on all the benches of our House, have received letters from British citizens who work in the French civil service and are concerned about their future. That is why MEPs from all groups have tabled amendments in the special committee aimed at securing the professional future of these British citizens in France. For example, Members of the Republican Group have tabled an amendment allowing incumbents and trainees of the British civil service to retain this status in case of no deal, unless duly justified exceptions. However, in the special committee, Members of the majority felt it was appropriate not to accept the amendments tabled by the opposition and to favour similar amendments tabled a little later by the majority. In the current social context and climate, you should have taken more account of what we were saying...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u194	Giver of lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u195	...and stop thinking that our proposals would systematically harm you: then we would have avoided many problems!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u196	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u197	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jacques Marilossian also applauds]] In any case, I thank the majority for hearing the opposition's questions, even though I regret that they were heard in this way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, if we now deal with the amendments, I fear that we will be able to adjourn the sitting before 20 hours. I therefore propose that you interrupt our debates. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-10-O1099.u199	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
