ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the fifty-fifth anniversary of the Treaty of Elysée, which was signed by Konrad Adenauer and Charles de Gaulle on 22 January 1963 and which sealed the reconciliation between France and the Federal Republic of Germany, the Bundestag and the National Assembly wish to open a new stage in strengthening Franco-German cooperation. This morning, in Berlin, a delegation of French Members was received – and very well received – by our colleagues in the Bundestag. After debate and expression of all the opinions represented in the Bundestag, the joint motion for a resolution tabled in each of our two assemblies was adopted. [[Mrs. and Mr. MEPs rise, members of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups applauding at length]] Before we look at this text in our turn and in the same way that I had the honour of speaking this morning to the German Members of the Bundestag, I am pleased to give the floor to Mr Wolfgang Schäuble, President of the Bundestag.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address you here in a place so full of history, for your country and for Europe and its values. This is even more so in a year when we commemorate the end of the First World War, a hundred years ago – this "Great War" with which so much suffering is associated between Germans and French. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups]] The fact that I am speaking to you as President of the Bundestag is an expression of our close friendship, an expression of a partnership based on trust, especially between our two assemblies. I would like to convey to you the cordial greetings of my colleagues in the Bundestag. In the presence of your President, who spoke to us this morning in Berlin, we debated our motion for a resolution with passion and seriousness. Through it, we want to broaden cooperation between our two countries, further deepen our partnership. The occasion is given to us by the anniversary of the Elysée Treaty. This treaty is a source of pride, the pride of what we have already accomplished. I come from the south-west of Germany, my constituency of Offenburg and its surroundings stops at the edge of the city of Strasbourg. I see the impressive development that the border regions, in particular, have experienced: the cities have begun to blend together, the landscapes too. Of course, French and Germans work on one side of the Rhine and live on the other. We want to strengthen these Eurodistricts, because that is where Franco-German cooperation takes place on a daily basis. But what is everyday for us quickly appears to us as evidence, and what is obvious appears to us as not requiring any preconditions. In our motion for a resolution, we celebrate Franco-German friendship as a gift inherited from history; That's what she is. We owe it, however, to courageous men, who showed vision after the world wars and after the German crimes. They have shown the ways of reconciliation. I recalled this morning the figure of Joseph Rovan, the great Frenchman with German roots. Born a hundred years ago, he became a university professor here in Paris fifty years ago, and taught the history and politics of Germany. Personalities like him believed that enemies could become friends. In 1963, the treaty of Elysée was built on this vision of a Franco-German friendship. Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer relied on the realities. Of course, there were differences – there are still some. Of course, the French and Germans are not the same, they follow specific traditions and have legitimate interests of their own. It is only because we know this that we can achieve what we want in common; and that is precisely why we have created, with the Elysée Treaty, mechanisms and rules of cooperation at the government level, through which we reach agreements, despite our differences. This is also the case, for a long time, between our parliaments. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups]] Politics must be based on realities. Politics is fruitful if it proceeds with pragmatism, without losing sight of its visionary ability. With our motion for a resolution, that is what we are doing. Despite all our pride in what has been accomplished, we must not be complacent. We see the challenges ahead and thus we realize that we must face them. What has been achieved prompts us to move forward. That is why we invite the governments of our two countries, the French Government and the future German Government, to adapt the foundations of the Elysée Treaty to the new challenges of our time, challenges that we can only face together – together, in Europe. Franco-German cooperation is a success story, and we want to continue to write this story in an ever more complex world. The conditions under which we want to live in this world whose evolution is accelerating, it is up to us to create them. Our requests to governments take into account the challenges of globalization and digital technology. The evolution of international financial markets, the consequences of migration movements throughout the world and the duties of integration that result therefrom, the dangers of international terrorism and armed conflicts at the external borders of Europe, the pressure exerted by authoritarian regimes, and also by separatist aspirations, and finally the tensions in the regions close to the Mediterranean, in Africa and the Middle East, if, faced with all this, we want to assert ourselves as Europeans, with our values, we have no choice; We must bring together our capabilities within Europe, Germans and French, with our different assets. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups]] The combination of these assets can also be a real added value for both parties – and for Europe. You French may feel more than we Germans feel that the nation states are part of the European reality. It can be appreciated or deplored. The nation states have grown up with history and today they are a familiar refuge for those who feel disoriented by the changes of globalization that are coming upon them. It is all the more important to reinforce this central idea because neither Germany nor France have a future without Europe. On this point too, we must show responsible pragmatism, by continuing to develop what we have, and by setting ourselves new objectives. We can deepen economic and monetary union and give new impetus to foreign and defence policy. This policy affects national interests and national sensitivities. It shows that conditions that have changed require new solutions, new ideas and new approaches. The great vision of a European Defence Community did not find a majority in this Assembly in 1954; Only a few years after the end of the Second World War, it was probably too early. Since then, the common security and defence policy has progressed pragmatically among the European States, one step after another – and recently with the establishment of permanent structured cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. French and German, we want to move forward, towards the creation of a Franco-German economic space and the completion of the European internal market, on the major future issues of climate protection, energy and digital society, and on the strengthening of social rights in Europe. To this end, we recognize that we have a special responsibility in the service of Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups]] However, Franco-German friendship does not only have a functional dimension; It also has its own value. This value, we must preserve its consciousness in society. We also want to commit ourselves to this, by developing twinning between our cities, by further strengthening fruitful cooperation in border regions, in the public and private sectors, by supporting the remarkable work of the Franco-German Youth Office, as well as the necessary cooperation in the fields of education and training, culture and the media. [[Same movements]] Above all, we want to broaden the offer to learn the language of the neighbour. It is an obvious, absolute necessity, for those who do not speak cannot understand each other. It is on this understanding between people that common political work is built, and it is only through this cooperation that Franco-German friendship lives in society. Parliaments, which form a link between society and the Government, have a special mission. That is why we want to intensify the dialogue between our two parliaments through a specific parliamentary agreement. This agreement will apply at all levels, in all key instances: the two offices, the specialized commissions, and the two parliamentary friendship groups. [[Mrs. and Mr. MEPs rise, members of the REM, MODEM, LR, UAI and NG groups applauding at length]] Ladies and gentlemen, we see the new momentum of European policy, the expectations we place in our two countries. Our parliaments are taking that momentum today, they are setting the pace for it. With the motion for a resolution presented today, we are taking a major step forward. We want to instil a momentum that will lead to further progress. We are free to act. Let us remember the obstacles that still existed more than half a century ago. Let us remember that they could have been overcome. Let us use our freedom today. Let us take our responsibilities with as much courage as the signatories at the time. Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u3	Thank you, Mr President of the Bundestag, dear Wolfgang Schäuble, for expressing yourself – and so well! – in French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u4	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mr François de Rugy and others for a new Elysée Treaty and to increase the role of parliaments in Franco-German cooperation (point 542 corrected).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u5	In the general debate, Mr. Richard Ferrand has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u6	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Minister for European Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, less than two months ago, we were voting on a resolution reminding us of our commitment to Europe and its symbols and asking our Government to promote them. Today, friendship and cooperation between France and Germany bring us together; Not only to rejoice that our two peoples and our two nations are harmoniously associated, but to affirm that they have a related destiny. Mr Schäuble, I would like to point out, enjoys great prestige in Germany and inspires great respect in Europe. On behalf of our group, I want to tell him how welcome it is that he has spoken before us. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore call for a new Elysée Treaty, as did our counterparts in Berlin this morning. We all know that history is not about immanence but about the will of women and men who are in a position to choose and decide, sometimes for the best, sometimes for the worst. The best way to make history is to rise to the challenges of an era, ours, and the demands of our peoples. Our choices may sometimes be upsetting the news, but they will be worth the story. Let us think for a moment at the height of sight, at the clairvoyance which were those of Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer to make the treaty of the Elysée, indispensable foundation for a lasting peace, a foundation on which European hope could be built. Let us think of these two men, born in the 19th century, who were bruised by the terrible conflicts between our peoples and who found in themselves the inspiration to trace the historical perspectives which they have inscribed in the treaty. Let us also think of the giant European steps taken by Helmut Kohl and François Mitterrand. Today, alongside Chancellor Merkel and President Macron, the parliaments of our respective nations are committed to asserting that national representations also want to engage is much more than a formal outcome: it is a fundamental commitment. I belong to these generations of French and Germans who have been able to meet, exchange and understand each other, who have learned from their differences and similarities, who have understood that they can bind their destiny and that a new breath can overcome the scars of history. Since the Elysée Treaty, we have shared real cooperation, including in the field of foreign policy and defence. One example is the Franco-German brigade, of which one of the deputies present here, our colleague Laetitia Saint-Paul, was a unit commander. The permanent structured cooperation, established last December, is a deepening of this. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] But, basically, this is not enough! Not enough because we feel well, deep within ourselves, that if our countries will always remain our homelands, the future of our homelands can only be part of a larger whole to allow the universal values and ideals that we share to radiate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Elysée is a heritage that we must preserve, but our vocation is not that of heritage curators. In the light of today's challenges, we must update and restore new energy to the history of the Franco-German couple. History summons us, and to steal from it would be cowardice and inconsequence. Today, Europe has fallen behind the vision of its founding fathers. The administration of things seems to have replaced the desire to build history. It is difficult, if not sometimes impossible, to give meaning to the history of Europe when most of our fellow citizens see it as a machine for producing obscurous regulations, without being able to discern the great policies which are carried out there. What are we facing? First of all, we must work together to find the solutions that will make us all move forward in the direction of a sustainable and sustainable world, in order to ensure the future of future generations. Europe is facing unprecedented migration. War, poverty and global warming force thousands of people to leave their homes. At our doorstep, women, men and their children try, at the risk of their lives, to cross conflicts and walk the paths of misery and hostility. The answers to this distress of a part of humanity can only come from a common momentum and, as the President of the Republic has pointed out, everyone must participate in this collective effort, which is in truth a choice of universal fraternity. National egoisms are playing with this distress and progressing in Europe. They break hearts as they blind the reasons, charting their way to the strongest institutions of our democracies. Some, both in France and in Germany, are intoxicated by the solutions of those who advocate the withdrawal and rejection of otherness. If we do not act, the quiet assurance that our democratic model is insubmersible could crack before our eyes. The response that France and Germany will bring to strengthen the accession of the European peoples, to make Europe more united and democratic, will be essential. To weaken Europe is, in essence, to deprive suffering humanity of part of the solution. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, a new treaty of Elysée is a European moment that goes beyond our two countries. It began with the election, in France, and the renewal, in Germany, of resolutely pro-European majorities, which see the strengthening of our common constructions as a lever to meet the challenges of the world. We are also living in a European moment because the economic prospects give hope back. Unemployment, which is still far too high, is an unacceptable failure for our democracies, inequalities are struggling to recede, between and within European states, and we still need to achieve democratic renewal in many countries. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Nevertheless, economic indicators are improving, growth is re-establishing and the return to employment is on the rise. This European moment must be seized and amplified by France and Germany. Strengthening our cooperation is therefore a duty, and we encourage it with all our strength through the provisions of this motion for a resolution, which are the milestones of a new treaty: the strengthening of a Franco-German economic area, that of our cross-border cooperation, the investment for our youth and its training with the creation of a statute for the Franco-German trainee, the development of bilingual and balance sheets classes or the creation of common cultural centres. So yes, let us also commit ourselves to a European foundation of social rights, with the aim of achieving, in Europe, a common threshold of equal opportunities, access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion, and equality between women and men! Let's work together on migration and integration across Europe, make people's consultations live, support digital innovation and create the European Innovation Agency! [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] We share with our German friends a common history, values and ambitions for tomorrow. Together, we are the heart of European integration, which will make us accountants of possible failures or craftsmen of future successes. It is therefore time to reaffirm our common destiny in a united, sovereign, democratic and united Europe; It is time to launch new projects with hope; It is time to write a new treaty of Elysée to safeguard peace, to really build Europe and to live in France and Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u7	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u8	Mr President, Mr President of the Bundestag, Mr Minister of State, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great Franco-German friendship treaty is celebrating its fifty-five years. A generation of courageous men and women has risen to build a new, solid and friendly relationship with Germany. Courage was unquestionably necessary to throw into the river the torrents of hatred and suffering that separated France and Germany. This generation was embodied in two exceptional men, two statesmen whom their personal stories could have pushed in opposite directions: Chancellor Adenauer and General de Gaulle, who forever marked our history. It will have taken, let us not forget, eighteen years for this Franco-German reconciliation, unheard of in many respects at the time when it occurred, to come to enshrine, by the Treaty of Elysée, one of the most important historical events of the twentieth century for our two countries and for Europe as a whole. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] Allow me, at this moment, to have a friendly thought for Louis Terrenoire, great resistor, Minister of State of General de Gaulle, who was the rapporteur of the bill ratifying the Treaty of Elysée. I also extend a friendly greeting to Alain Terrenoire, his son, one of our former colleagues, who is present in our gallery today. This treaty, I said, was signed fifty-five years ago, the time of two generations who worked for reconciliation with passion, conviction and pragmatism as well. Some saw it as a necessity, others as opportunities. All, in their own way, have participated in this exceptional movement in history, a movement of reconciliation whose depth has no equivalent. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] You were one of those, Mr. President of the Bundestag. As the President of Rugy said, it is not only an honour but also a pride to welcome you here today, fifty-five years later, to mark a new stage. This is not a stage of reconciliation, since it is an obvious one, but the deepening of a special and unique relationship, without which, tomorrow, nothing will be possible in Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UAI group]] The Treaty of Elysée, I said, is one of the major events of the second half of the twentieth century, and it is inseparable from the great adventure begun in the fifties, inseparable from the European construction. You are, Mr President of the Bundestag, a convinced European. You are even more than that: a European of action. At the worst of the financial storm, you were, alongside Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy, one of those on whom the weight of responsibility was greatest. History will remember that you have defended the best interests of the European Union without ever sacrificing anything to the interests of your own country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u9	They're the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u10	Without you, the euro area probably wouldn't have survived. And with it, it was the European construction and perhaps even the European idea and ideal that would have wavered. Some, moreover, at the origin of the serious difficulties we have experienced, have broached your intransigence by confusing it with what was, in truth, only constancy. There are still those who have still not understood that budgetary virtue has never been a dogma, neither for you nor for anyone, but simply a practice of common sense to prepare for the future and not to bring our own turpitudes to bear on future generations. Frankly, I must say that we still have a long way to go in France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] We had no doubt. And our parliamentary group, between 2009 and 2012, supporting the action of Nicolas Sarkozy and his government, has always been at the meeting to support and vote on the powerful mechanisms that have stabilized the euro area and saved our currency. Thank you, Mr. President. European history will remain your responsibility. The resolution we are voting today, in recitals 13 and 14, finally enshrines this vision that nothing will happen without a more resilient monetary union and healthier public finances. That, in my view, is one of the points in this resolution on which we could perhaps have been more daring. Of course, monetary union transcends our two countries, but Germany and France are the nuclear heart of it. Our governments and our peoples should one day have the courage not to stay in the middle of the ford. This means that the stronger integration of our monetary and fiscal policies, as well as of the governance of the euro area, will not remain an option in the long term. There is, of course, a second issue of concern to our fellow citizens in France, Germany and all over Europe. This is the question of migration and the reception of refugees. This is a major issue on which we could also have been bolder in this resolution. I concede that it is not easy to be bold as the subject is explosive and so divided. It touches on the essential question of what our capacity is. In our political family, we think it is affected. There is also evidence on this subject: Europe must address the issue of migratory flows. The Member States cannot go on their own in this matter. From our point of view, Schengen has lived. Its reform is a priority and we Germans and French must shoulder our responsibilities, because it is about European cohesion as a whole. On this issue, but not only, there is a widening gap between two Europes. It is our common duty, France and Germany, not to allow this gap to widen. If we do not take into account the particular sensitivity of our partners in the eastern part of the European Union, a sensitivity linked to their own history, to their geography as well, to fail to secure them deeply to Europe, to our values of democracy, to freedom, to what the West is and what we share. The Federal Republic of Germany knows better than any other country, because it experienced it when it had to rebuild itself, which means reaching out and having allies. Germany has a historic responsibility in this regard. France, too, must look to the East. At a time when the United Kingdom has chosen another path, we cannot afford the luxury of an amputated Europe in the East. [[Exclaims and applause on the benches of the LR group]] We made the historic choice – there was no other – from enlargement to the East. Let's assume it. Let us help those countries that have suffered the Soviet yoke to deepen and share the European adventure. Let us also assume that this enlargement has reached its limits today and, in particular, that Turkey has no place in the Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u11	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u12	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u13	Mr Schäuble, in the place that is yours, with your moral and political authority in a country, Germany, which is a great parliamentary democracy, you will, no doubt, be a major player in a reinvented Franco-German relationship. Let us draw inspiration from this, so that the French Parliament can play a real role in redefining a strengthened Franco-German relationship. This is the time to weigh in a world where the economic competition of other major nascent powers is shaking us. This is the time to face together the major security, migration and climate challenges. The French, like the Germans, may be less aware than in 1963 that their destinies are linked as they probably never were. Our assemblies must be the positive ones to shed light on the big issues, to enlighten our governments. The Group of the Republicans, given its Gaullist affiliation, the participation of presidents and governments from its ranks in the European integration process, and its political proximity to the CDU and the CSU, will be at the meeting. [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Our parliamentary group would have preferred to welcome you, Mr President, as a majority in this House – although this is being measured today. The French decided otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u14	They did the right thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Above all – it is an achievement of our Constitution that has no price – they have given our country a clear majority. This is not what we wanted, but stability is always preferable to instability. In front of you, Mr President of an assembly that has been waiting for his government for five months, I would like to alert our assembly and our President of the Republic on the effects of proportional voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u16	You don't have a lesson to teach!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u17	Germany has great assets. It is a very great power. But France also has its assets, including a political regime that today guarantees stability. This stability will be essential to strengthen Franco-German friendship and strengthen Europe, our most valuable common good. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UAI group]] At a time when, because life is what it is, we are gradually losing direct witness to a terrible war that was the sinking of Europe, let me think, Mr President, that this anniversary is first and foremost a starting point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u18	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u19	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several benches of the REM and LR groups]] Mr President, Mr Schäuble, Mr Minister of State, Madam Minister, dear friends of the German delegation, Liebe deutsche Freunde, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in the life of a parliamentarian that do not resemble any other. The people we live today, this morning in Berlin and this afternoon in Paris, are certainly part of it. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on a few benches of the REM and LR groups]] Fifty-five years ago, by signing the Elysée Treaty less than twenty years after the end of the two world conflicts, Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer sealed the reconciliation of our two peoples. This morning, in the Bundestag, has been strongly and repeatedly affirmed how much this achievement must be defended above all else.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u21	While it is important to remember the major role played by the Franco-German couple in the birth of a united Europe, on Monday 22 January 2018, we, German and French parliamentarians, do much more than commemorate: we are making a new appointment with history. For the first time, our two parliaments are voting on a joint resolution this morning in Berlin, this evening in Paris. For the first time, the President of the National Assembly has spoken in German before the Bundestag and we have just heard President Schäuble speak before us in order to share a common vision and vote on a joint resolution. Finally, Franco-German parliamentary diplomacy today takes on a dimension it has never had. Because this day is not just a symbol. It is the content of this resolution and its ambition that makes this day historic: there is a real vision and pragmatic and concrete projects in this resolution. A real vision, first of all, a convergent vision on our democratic society projects, on the affirmation of the European foundation of social rights, on the place of citizens in Europe and on the importance of joint citizen consultations in our two countries, a vision on money, which must protect us from future crises, on competitiveness and on harmonised rules for business law, on employment and social security. A political vision also converges on the role Parliaments can and must play in this European dynamic. A converging vision, therefore, but also projects, such as on bilateral energy schemes, on the European Agency for Breakout Innovation, on the development of teachers' cross-border pathways, on the university and on a public-private joint investment fund for the benefit of future technologies. This is a real road map that our two countries can join together to contribute to the renewal of the European project. As a Member of Parliament for Strasbourg, Alsace and the Great East, I would also like to say that I have never read a resolution that gives such a strong and precise impetus and renewal to cross-border events, whether for Eurodistricts, apprenticeships, trainees, bilingualism or regulatory convergence. None of my Alsatian, Lorrain or border colleagues present today, whatever their bench, can be insensitive to such a parliamentary ambition, never equalled. It will therefore be the responsibility of all elected representatives, not only ours, but also of the elected representatives of the territory, regardless of their political colour and the community they represent, to seize this unique opportunity that we offer, and to transform it into a reality for our fellow citizens. For all these reasons, and because in the Democratic Movement Group, we are committed and enthusiastic supporters of Franco-German friendship, because, like many of you, we have Europe as a passion and as a reason, because the European project is at the heart of our values, the MODEM and related Group will vote forcefully and unanimously, I am sure, this resolution. We will thus extend the will of the President of the Republic, affirmed in his speech by the Sorbonne, repeatedly cited this morning, to deepen the Franco-German relationship and to establish a new treaty of the Elysée. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and REM groups as well as on a few benches of the UAI and LR groups]] The vote on this resolution comes at a crucial moment in European history, while the alignment of the planets, so dear to our presidential majority, may finally be taking shape. A moment when, weakened by the crises that have tried to break it down, Europe is regaining new energy and determination, in which our two countries play, and will play even more in the years to come, a decisive role. You are proving this, dear German friends, with the coalition emerging in Germany and its pro-European commitment. We have proved this, for our part, with, finally, in the presidential campaign and in the first months of the mandate, words and pro-European acts that we have been waiting so many for so long. When we have voted on this resolution, there will be a long way to go. We will have to fight with unwavering determination against all populisms, dark nationalisms, all Europhobias and anti-European declinescepticism. To fight, we will simply have to act. To succeed, we will have to conduct citizen consultations, set up working groups, mobilize elected representatives and build, boldly and imaginatively. Our resolution will have to take shape and translate into concrete action in the lives of our fellow citizens. The working group that will lead the work will have a great and important mission. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups as well as on many benches of the UAI and LR groups]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, by voting on this historic joint resolution, our two assemblies choose Franco-German friendship and the revival of the European project. Like all those who believe that our future is together in the Union, like all those who live the cross-border phenomenon on a daily basis and want it to develop even further, as all those, too, whose families have paid too much for the last wars, I know the value of such a choice. Liebe deutsche Freunde, Europa braucht uns und wir brauchen Europa – Europe needs us, and we need Europe. It is up to us to be the determined artisans of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u22	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u23	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Bundestag, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of State, Madam Minister, following President François de Rugy, we welcome you to this sitting in the National Assembly, which follows that held this morning in the Bundestag, where you hosted a delegation of our colleagues, on the occasion of the fifty-fifth anniversary of the Treaty of Elysée, signed on 22 January 1963. These two meetings will serve to reaffirm the commitment and friendship of our two countries, through the draft resolution before us, the aim of which is to further strengthen the ties between our countries and our peoples. Yet nothing was played in advance. On 22 January 1963, when the first generation of the post-war period had not yet reached the majority, the President of the Republic Charles de Gaulle and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer signed the so-called "Elysée" cooperation treaty, designed to seal reconciliation between France and the Federal Republic of Germany. We salute these two great statesmen, who had the courage to think that it was possible, not only to reconcile these two peoples who had fought so hard, but even to unite their destinies, thus emerging from the role of privileged adversaries in which history had locked them up over time. Adenauer and de Gaulle succeeded in giving substance to their hope, to their desire for peace in a treaty offering the conditions of friendship between Germany and France. In the face of history, they have been able to rise above the still burning passions and grudges that are still alive in order to shake up the certainties and for our countries to finally move hand in hand. Our predecessors hoped that the treaty of Elysée would indeed pave the way for a new stage in the history of Franco-German relations, a stage leading to fraternity. But fraternity is not the ease of handshakes or official kisses. It requires the depth of a commitment gradually shared by our peoples and its transmission from generation to generation. For more than fifty-five years now, our two peoples have honoured the words given at the signing of the Elysée Treaty, preserving Franco-German friendship and allowing the birth of European integration. The decades that have passed are not abstract figures, they are a reality and a historic turning point for Europe that has never had such a long period of peace, but also for the progress of common and European projects. Another illustrious figure of Europe, Winston Churchill, also had this foreknowledge of the necessary rapprochement between France and Germany to stabilize and re-found the European family. It was during his speech in Zurich in 1946, addressed to young Europeans, that Churchill uttered this sentence, which resonates today as a prophecy: "The first step towards a re-foundation of the European family of peoples must be the establishment of a partnership between France and Germany". France and Germany have heard this appeal. The European Coal and Steel Community was created as the first fruits of the European Union. Today, we are aware, perhaps more than at the time, of the importance of Franco-German reconciliation and friendship, not only for the relationship between our two countries, but even more so for the whole of Europe. This act, however, had an essentially symbolic value, guaranteeing fraternal friendship between two former enemies after a century of rivalry, establishing a lasting peace and establishing a new form of consultation at the head of the European Economic Community, which would become the European Union thirty years later. The Treaty of Elysée has gone beyond the hopes of its inspirators, helping to maintain for more than half a century the peace between France and Germany, strengthening the links between our two countries and thereby enabling the creation of the driving duo that is advancing the European Union. In the face of this legacy, the task before us cannot be simply an exercise of memory. Throughout these decades, those who have succeeded General de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer have been careful to maintain and cultivate the feeling of friendship between our two countries, adding at each stage new projects: the creation of Airbus, the creation of the single market, the reunification of Germany approved and supported by France, the creation of the euro. This friendship, however, is not a long, quiet river; It has, of course, experienced during the last fifty years phases of passions and disagreements, but, while respecting our respective and common interests, we have always overcome them – fortunately for both our countries and for the whole European project. Friendship between France and Germany has always been at the service of European integration and the values we share. This partnership is precious, indispensable to us; It is also so for the other European countries, because it is inseparable from European integration. Europe cannot move forward without Germany and France. Our two countries therefore have the task of putting back on track a Europe in crisis, political, economic and social. And we are grateful to the President of the Republic for having clearly put the debate before all our European partners. Europe works badly, and sometimes does not work, because we have left it in the middle of the ford, indefinitely rejecting decisions that are indispensable, but which require courage. We give him too many missions for which it is not indispensable, while refusing to entrust to him what is essential and that we do less well separated than together. In our view, either Europe will move forward strongly in the next few years, or our countries will step back and eventually swindle. We will no longer be able to defend our interests in the face of other major global groupings. However, behind our interests are our ways of life, our cultures, the humanistic values of European civilisation. This is, in fact, the real issue of European integration, which is not only, as we all too often hear from flimsy or blind leaders, a mere economic construction. In order to build this future for Europe, Franco-German understanding will be indispensable more than ever. The challenge is no longer simply to make peace between us, but to succeed in creating a federated body capable of guaranteeing our security, of restoring fair economic relations within the World Trade Organization, the WTO, of strengthening our technological independence, of ensuring the progressive economic and social harmonisation of our countries without which the single market will quickly lose its legitimacy, of sharing efforts to preserve the environment, and of ensuring the co-development of the African continent, our neighbour. France has just chosen a new National Assembly; The Bundestag has just come out of the ballot box and is looking for its majority. The parliamentarians of our two countries will have the historic responsibility to accompany, and if necessary to engulf, our Heads of State and Government, by building majorities determined to unite the countries of Europe that want to regain sovereignty that is not just appearance, and gradually share the same economic and social rules – even if these majorities go beyond the traditional political divisions, even if a group of countries around us are once again pioneers of this new Europe. It is also this great debate that we will have next year on the occasion of the election of the new European Parliament post-Brexit. London has, alas! often prevented the European Union from moving forward; The departure of the British gives Paris and Berlin the responsibility and opportunity to make Europe more coherent and powerful, accompanied by all the countries that want it. France and Germany have a particular responsibility, through their history, geography and economic power; They must reaffirm the quality of their relationship, both for them and for Europe, and find a new breath together. We believe that one of the priorities of this renovation should be to better integrate national parliaments into the federated heart of Europe. Curiously, within the European Union, we are so accustomed to this permanent state of peace, friendship and cooperation that most of our fellow citizens, having never known anything else in their lives, live it as a pure and simple evidence. This evidence has, no doubt, often made us forget the true meaning of the European project: the sharing and protection of a shared culture and values, shaped by more than 2000 years of common history and civilisation, which depend on our ability to guarantee our security and defend our interests. We remember and salute what our history has been after this Elysée Treaty. It is up to us to write a new page, and to open up opportunities to match the legacy we have received. We must do so in the continuity of the Elysée Treaty. That is why this motion for a resolution is of real symbolic importance. It is the result of joint drafting, coordinated by the presidents of our two assemblies, involving in particular the chairpersons of the Committees on Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, the chairman of the France-Germany Friendship Group and representatives of all political groups. This initiative of parliamentary origin is highly symbolic, because it is not the result of a discussion between the executive of the two countries and aims to strengthen the role of the assemblies in Franco-German cooperation. Let us hope that our Governments will hear and see to it. Let us also hope that our parliaments will now really become accustomed to working together, beyond symbols. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI, REM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Because we are strongly committed to Franco-German friendship, because it represents the indispensable driving force for the transformation of Europe which we call for, the UDI Group, Action and Independents will vote on this draft resolution, in the hope that it will mark a new stage in the rapprochement of France and Germany, allowing Europe to finally resume its path towards unification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u24	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u25	Mr President of the National Assembly, Herr Bundestagspräsident, my dear German and French colleagues, liebe deutsche und französiche Kolleginnen und Kollegen, this fifty-fifth anniversary of the Treaty of Elysée invites those who feel the children of Franco-German friendship to become aware of the richness of this past and to take our responsibilities for the future. I am one of these children of Franco-German friendship, of those who have had the chance to stay in Germany – for my part, from the age of thirteen, in Bremen – and to return to it every year during my studies, in Munich, Bamberg, Düsseldorf, Berlin, Hamburg, Eichstätt... I am one of those who have had the chance to live a concrete friendship with the German people, a friendship allowed by the Treaty of Elysée but which has gone far beyond the institutional framework of the Treaty. Because you German Members are our friends, I want to talk to you here with the frankness of friendship. My group, the Socialist Group chaired by Olivier Faure here, will vote on this draft resolution; We will vote for it in the name of our friendship. We will vote for it because it is, for the first time, an initiative taken by our parliaments, the Bundestag and the National Assembly. For us, French, who live in the regime of the Fifth Republic, where the executive decides almost everything, it is very important. We will also vote for it because, for the first time, a resolution from our countries enshrines the development of Eurodistricts, i.e. the possibility for our cross-border territories to take initiatives. We shall finally vote for the role that this text gives to our two assemblies in writing the treaty of tomorrow. But we believe that rewriting a new treaty of the Elysée implies first of all to rise to the risks taken by de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer, by Helmut Schmidt and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, by Georges Pompidou and Willy Brandt – who created the first three French-German high schools – by François Mitterrand and Helmut Kohl. That is why we would have liked to have read a clear commitment on investment in the draft resolution. If we do nothing in this field, then we condemn our common future: we will be two old nations that will watch the future build elsewhere. To discuss this very often with my friends and colleagues from the sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands, the SPD, I know that this issue is difficult between us because of France's large public debt. In any case, on investment, I repeat, the resolution is too timid. Paragraph 25 refers, of course, to the creation of a joint public and private investment fund to support innovative projects, but that is not enough. It is even below the commitments made in 2013 on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Elysée Treaty, which promised investments in the space sector, agriculture and energy renewal. We therefore hope that there will be a strong and quantified commitment to investment in energy transition, agriculture, digital technology and transport. The second requirement we would have liked to have included in this resolution is a clear commitment to our vision of Europe. The Treaty of Elysée applies not only to ourselves and to our friendship, but also to Europe as a pillar. We heard it this morning in the Bundestag: it is this vision that is attacked by the extremists, and it is it that we have the duty and the ambition to defend. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM, LR, MODEM, UAI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, let me quote the words of German Chancellor Willy Brandt: "Es wächst zusammen, was zusammen gehört", which means that those who come together grow up together. We want to build and progress: that is why we need to build a common path. Let the Franco-German friendship live! Let Europe live! Es lebe die deutsch-französische Freundschaft! Es lebe Europa! Thank you. Ich bedanke mich bei Ihnen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u26	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u27	The Presidents of the National Assembly and the Bundestag, ladies and gentlemen of the French and German Deputies, the chairman of our group, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, did not sign this motion for a resolution. We won't vote it any more tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u28	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u29	There are many reasons for this. Let us start with the conditions for its preparation, of which I have no doubt they will surprise our German counterparts more accustomed to respect for Parliament. On Friday, 29 December, the President of Rugy sent the Assembly's parliamentary groups two texts to sign, without the possibility of amending them, by 4 January. This ultra-fast procedure, in the midst of the end of the year, is far from Mr. de Rugy's promise of a collective preparation for the anniversary of the Elysée Treaty. We could also challenge the constitutionality of this text. The President of the National Assembly does not have any constitutional or legislative power to sign an administrative act which binds the Senate, of which the President is not a signatory. This act disregards the constitutional value of the separation of powers and article 52 of the Constitution, which gives the President of the Republic a monopoly on treaty negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u31	[[Murmures on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It also disregards the principle of the sovereignty of the people by assigning to the President of the National Assembly powers that do not fall within its decision-making power: for example, the possibility for foreign parliamentarians to sit in the National Assembly and for the President of a foreign assembly to preside over public meetings of the National Assembly. Is it very serious to consider the sovereignty of the people in France? These are good reasons for not voting; But the worst is in its content. [[Protests on the benches of the LR and REM groups]] We are refusing a Franco-German condominium which would be a genuine straitjacket for the European Union. For, contrary to what Mr de Rugy explained this morning to the Bundestag, that is what this is all about. The bilateral Franco-German format only mentions other nations as accessories. By planning to adopt a common position on the reform of the euro area in spring 2018, France and Germany snob the June Council, during which Member States must collectively decide on a roadmap. Our Spanish, Italian, Portuguese and Greek partners – the Club Med, as Chancellor Angela Merkel (Exclamations on several benches of the LR Group) likes to call them – are significantly excluded by this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u33	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and REM groups]] In this connection, I would like to say to President Schäuble, quite frankly, since he could soon preside over this House...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u34	Anything! It's to scare!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u35	It's absolutely grotesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. - Exclaims on the benches of the REM, LR, MODEM and UAI groups]] ...that, for my part, I cannot forget the particularly hard role he played during the odious blackmail exercised on the Greek people, martyred since 2015. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We will not vote for this text, because it does not respond to the emergencies of our time in Europe. The social harmonisation referred to does not include any clause on the non-regression of acquired rights. Do I have to remember that in terms of social rights, alignment with Germany has enough to scare – the first victims are the German workers? It is the country of one-euro jobs and retirement at sixty-seven years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u37	And the fall in unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u38	[["What about the unemployed? » on the benches of the LR group]] The poor are far more numerous than in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u39	And Venezuela is better?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u40	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Could you be a little democratic on the right? The German minimum wage is 10% lower than the French SMIC and does not apply to all sectors. For the drafters of this resolution, deepening the single market seems to be Europe's only possible economic horizon. We do not share this narrow and austere vision of the European economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u42	You don't have a monopoly on insubmission!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u43	Was the USSR better?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u44	In this text, the country that emits the most CO in Europe and the country that is the most nuclearised have nothing to say about their responsibilities to put the ecosystem at risk of death. The ecosystem crisis is addressed only to refer to insufficient documents already signed and to the creation of a carbon market, which environmental NGOs denounce the inefficiency. By calling on governments to intensify permanent structured cooperation, this text more irreparably binds France to NATO. Should it be recalled that the Elysée Treaty was initially desired by de Gaulle to remove the Federal Republic of Germany from the United States?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u46	The French government deliberately excluded any mention of NATO and GATT – general agreement on tariffs and trade. It was then a matter of asserting an independent Europe from the United States and the USSR.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u47	Are there any other Gaullists in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u48	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Today, the Franco-German couple, by means of a military Schengen, wants to allow the free movement of NATO troops on the continent. Defence Europe also provides for the development of joint weapons programmes. What will remain of the material independence of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u49	But it's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u50	We disagree: it must be kept at all costs. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] In essence, the German and French governments want, in the wake of the United States, to take advantage of Britain's exit from the European Union to expand their influence in Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Wars caused by regime changes or for oil and gas have led to the disintegration of States, facilitated the resurgence of terrorism and caused massive waves of exile. From the refugee point of view, the good intentions of the text are not enough. "Acting together on migration and integration," he said. In this case, why not start by calling into question the obligation for countries to sign economic partnership agreements that ruin them? Why start by morally destroying refugees with agreements such as those concluded with Mr Erdogan's Turkey and implemented in Libya?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u51	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u52	Finally, this text is contrary to the specific republican nature of France as a unitary State. It is intended nothing less than to break with the unity of the law in France. The text refers to "experimental clauses" in national legislation and the granting of exorbitant powers of common law and even rights of legislative experimentation to the Eurodistricts – it will have been understood that these are border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u53	What a horror!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u54	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] This is a change of institutional course, which we must not underestimate the destructive potential. We want a Europe of peoples. We reject the risky experiments that begin by undoing France. In short, once again, the inspirators of these texts want to act as if the progress of Europe's money, armaments and ecological relativism were the progress of Europe itself, even though the peoples are as usual kept away from decisions. We have a duty to resist and propose to do something else, otherwise. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we have just co-signed a text with Members from Die Linke, the essence of which I found in the remarkable speech this morning by my colleague Sahra Wagenknecht, whom I salute and who so strongly opposed to a "German Europe" the need for a European Germany – and I will add, for my part, the need for French leaders who are less beats and more confident in the wealth of our people in order to revolutionise the current European framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u56	However, it is not a question of refusing any treaty between our two countries. On the contrary, cooperation should be renewed to meet the new challenges of our time, but not in the manner of the proposed resolution. Together with the deputies of Die Linke, we affirm that we are united by the desire for ever closer cooperation based on freedom, equality and fraternity. We have thus laid down the basis for a new Franco-German cooperation treaty. Germany mainly, but also France, must commit itself within the framework of the European Union to a balanced external trade and support wages and public investment. Germany and France should take the initiative of a European debt conference and levy a tax on wealth from the richest. The fiscal pact must be suspended and public investment excluded from the Maastricht criteria. The European Central Bank should finance joint strategic investments in research, education, the fight against climate change and youth unemployment. We must anchor the principle of equal pay for equal work and the primacy of wage, social and environmental standards over any other market injunction, which will lead us to reject the posted workers directive. Germany and France must act to introduce a clause on the non-regression of social and environmental rights. Our two countries must agree on the minimum tax rate on business profits and set a reduced common VAT rate on essential goods. Coercive joint actions must be implemented against tax havens, even if they are within the European Union. Germany and France must reject any new trade and investment agreement leading to the privatisation and liberalisation of public services or the weakening of the social state. We must set mutual disarmament objectives. France and Germany must work together to develop a plan for the release of pesticides in the agricultural field, to set strict standards against animal suffering and intensive livestock farming. It is in this spirit that we want the adoption of new European treaties and, before that, we want to implement the initiatives that I have just presented through the joint Franco-German work. We are, therefore, far from the resolution before us. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If we oppose, we also propose another direction: a plan A which would apply with all the countries of the European Union and, failing that, a plan B with the countries that would like to do so. I have just explained to you the main elements. We will popularize it in the coming months, including in the European elections, especially with our two peoples. For the time being, and for all the reasons I have just mentioned, we call on you to reject this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u57	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u58	Mr André Chassaigne, chairman of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u59	Save the left, Andre!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u60	I hope, Mr President, that you will stop your grimaces during this speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a symbol of the sealed reconciliation between France and Germany, the Treaty of Elysée is the culmination of the will and tenacity of a great statesman who had a vision for our country's place in the world, a vision for a world of multipolar peace freed from submission to US imperialism: General de Gaulle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u62	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u63	With the contribution of Chancellor Adenauer, he wanted to consecrate the friendship of the French and German peoples in the wake of the darkest pages of a common history too often cruel and so bloody. [["Ah! » and smiles on several benches of the LR group]] For the internationalists we are, friendship between the French and German peoples goes without saying. We love Germany: that of yesterday and today; the east and west; that of Goethe, Schiller, Heine, Mendelssohn; that of Marx, August Bebel, Karl Liebknecht, Rosa Luxemburg, Clara Zetkin;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u64	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u65	... Thomas and Heinrich Mann, Bertolt Brecht and Heinrich Böll, Christa Wolf and Hermann Müller. Our Germany is not that of the financial interests defended today by Mrs Merkel. As our friends at Die Linke say so well, we need a "European Germany". Arrogance, whether French or German, is a danger for Europe. We want friendship and cooperation based on an ideal of peace shared by the peoples of Europe, an ideal imagined, well before the Heads of State and Government, by the workers' movement on both sides of the Rhine,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u66	Exactly! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u67	... by great intellectuals and politicians such as Otto Dix, Romain Rolland, Jaurès and Pastor Niemöller, an ideal unlike today's Europe, crossed by a wave of xenophobic nationalisms that are not part of his values. Franco-German solidarity and cooperation must be open to other nations. Our privileged partnership must contribute to European solidarity. It is necessary to build a new vision for our continent that is destined to become the pillar of a world that is no longer unipolar. Now, what do we have today? A European Union prisoner of the neoliberal religion whose high priests are praising us with their songs: the Maastricht Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, the budgetary pact. A new Inquisition with its holy war: military confrontation has been replaced by economic war; rifles, tanks and aircraft have given way to social dumping and fiscal austerity in the name of neoliberal orthodoxy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u69	But the victims are always the same: the peoples! In this draft resolution, you submit to us a Europe without vision, a vast area of circulation of capital and the production of dividends. A Europe without the influence that has so often enlightened the world, from the French Revolution to the Spartakist Revolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u70	Not to mention the Stasi!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u71	Not the slightest outline of a project for the entire planet, of a Europe that plays an essential role in the construction of a new, multipolar era, in which peoples will be equal to enrich our common humanity with their singular geniuses. Of course, we can only welcome interparliamentary cooperation between the two assemblies, proof that we can work together and reach agreements. A new Elysée treatise? Why not? But with strong content, opening up to the world of tomorrow, bearing and inspiring a substantial renewal within the framework of our report to Germany and to Europe in general. But most of what you are proposing is set out in a recital in principle: competitiveness, which should be the guiding principle of joint efforts to deepen economic and monetary union. As the signs of the failure of European policy multiply, you are locked in this grigri which hides human realities. You no longer see the fears, the despairs of women and men, of young people, of our elders. You eliminate the suffering that narrows consciousness. How can we make the friendship of peoples grow on this matrix of economic and social war?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u72	Not with Marxism, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u73	How can we claim to base relations between peoples on the Europe of markets, fiscal austerity and social dumping? Behind the discourse on the renewal of the Treaty, it is neoliberal dogmatism that prevails, this dogmatism that has cut Brussels, Paris and Berlin off from the peoples of Europe. This resolution is also a barely veiled ode to the famous German model. A model made up of ideological austerity and fiscal sharpness, insolent financial surpluses fed by the impoverishment of other European peoples, with a proportion of poor and precarious in Germany even greater than in France, dilapidated public facilities and obsolete transport infrastructure. Your loss of confidence, ladies and gentlemen, is such that you want this for France and for Europe! [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Mr President, fellow signatories of this motion for a resolution, you have unfortunately succumbed to neoliberal hypnosis. You have forgotten that you are the elected representatives of the nation that Goethe admired so much and not the little hands without patriotic attachment to the service of the shareholders of which Anatole France spoke. On the other hand, we want to give a positive meaning to the relationship between our two countries, to think of a close, balanced, non-exclusive partnership that cannot be reduced to the Franco-German engine pair. Building a vision, asserting a political will means working for a rebalancing at all levels, to lay the foundations of a European project, without concealing the big issues of tax evasion, the burden of illegitimate debts, an ECB at the service of banks and without action on the real economy, social and territorial inequalities, the arms race within NATO. As Victor Hugo already said in 1842, the relationship between France and Germany is decisive for the future of Europe and the world. It must be celebrated for that purpose, and that is what needs to be done. We propose an economic policy based firmly on research and education, industrial cooperation with respect for the ecological aspirations of the European peoples. We propose a common energy policy in which all countries must give up carbon-based energy in the short term. Germany is one of the two major polluters in Europe and we ourselves need to move towards achieving the energy transition. Our shared will must be that of a powerful contribution to the fight against global warming. Finally, together with the other European countries, for our planet, for the right to the happiness and development of every human being, there is an urgent need for powerful policies of cooperation and co-development, the only way to tarnish migratory movements and prevent the abandonment and ruin of the countries of the South. The peoples of France and Germany must be at the initiative of defining a European project worthy of that name, an ambitious project for the whole continent, capable of giving a new breath and meaning to Europe. It is a matter of building, with and for the citizens, a Europe on a sound basis, i.e. democratic, social and ecological. We believe in a social Europe that would be enshrined in a genuine European social treaty, which cannot be reduced to the only Franco-German couple, a treaty with the values and protective norms of our workers, the foundation of a Europe of solidarity, free from the tutelage of financial markets, the dogmas of liberalism and budgetary austerity. Only such a road map could renew the Franco-German relationship and reorient the European construction, for a better future for the peoples. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] It cannot be built on a few, around a green carpet, at the speed, without associating the living forces of our two nations. Let us impregnate ourselves with what Nelson Mandela said so well: "Everything that is done for me, without me, is done against me. This vision of the world is missing from the resolution before us today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by not voting on it, we think of the great names of our common history that I appointed at the beginning of my speech; We think of those who have paid with their lives for their love of peace, freedom, their love of the French and German peoples, such as Jean Jaurès, Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxembourg! We want to be worthy of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u74	They're all Bolsheviks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u75	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, LR, MODEM, UAI and NG groups. - Exclaims on FI banks]] Mr President, Herr Bundestagsprässident, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, geehrte Kollegen aus dem Bundestag, Minister of State, Minister, it is with immense joy that I address you today. Two months after the adoption of a resolution on European symbols, we are discussing two subjects that are particularly dear to me: Franco-German friendship and cooperation. Before proceeding, I too, on behalf of the France-Germany Friendship Group of the National Assembly, would like to welcome President Wolfgang Schäuble, my colleague Mr Andreas Jung, and all our German colleagues from Berlin to present this historic joint resolution. I would also like to thank President Schäuble and all our German counterparts for welcoming us to the Bundestag this morning during the debate and the vote on the joint resolution. That's what Franco-German friendship is like every day! [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Today, we write the first words of a new page in the history of relations between France and Germany. A few explanations of text are obviously necessary for the benches on my left. The joint resolution, which we will vote at the end of this debate and which our German colleagues adopted this morning, is the new breath that was lacking in relations between our two countries. The two national representations – the representatives of the peoples! – call on their respective governments to work with them, in the coming year, to perfect the Elysée Treaty, not the other way around. The National Assembly and the Bundestag urge their governments to translate this friendship into multifocal achievements that will positively affect the daily lives not only of the citizens of our two great nations, but of the peoples of Europe as a whole. Fifty-five years ago, Konrad Adenauer and Charles de Gaulle signed the Treaty of Elysée, an organ of Franco-German relations, the cornerstone of the European integration process, which has enabled many progress to be made between our neighbouring States. Today – on this point, I share Mr Coquerel's diagnosis – this building is a step in the right direction. Within its borders, Europe sees the rise of extremes, the retreat on its own, the rise of nationalisms, Brexit – evidence of a lack of understanding of Europe by its people. They see Europe as a technocratic machine with blurred outlines. We are talking about Europe, about rapprochement, about free trade, but for many the situation is deteriorating: unemployment, terrorism, global warming, feeling of abandonment. Internationally, the situation in Crimea, the refugee crisis, Daesh have been more managed to limit damage than to develop major federative projects. Union against each other lasts only for a while. Under no circumstances should it be considered as a lasting solution. Reason must lead us to unite around a common project and a common vision that meets the expectations and aspirations of our fellow citizens. But we do not agree on the treatment to be applied. Europe lacked the very substance that makes it breathe and live friendship: the accession, acceptance and integration of this idea by the citizens. It is they who carry the projects, it is at their level, in their families, in their neighbourhoods, in their city that they give life to what is called Franco-German friendship, the true crucible of Europe. Our answer is radically different from that of the FI Group. Women and politicians, representatives of our two nations, we have a major responsibility, a major mission: we must take the pulse of our societies and give our compatriots the means to use Franco-German cooperation and European construction to improve their daily lives. We must allow them to develop concrete projects whose Franco-German friendship and Europe are the main catalysts. Robert Schuman, the founding father of the European Union, rightly stated: "Europe will not be achieved at once, nor in an overall construction: it will be achieved through concrete achievements that create, first and foremost, de facto solidarity. And that is the whole issue of this joint resolution: to enable concrete, visible and clear actions to be launched for all. Our joint resolution introduces cooperation in all areas of life. First of all, it will allow us to remove blockages in border regions, in the recognition of school, professional and university diplomas, in vocational training, employment, social standards, medical benefits and safety. We cannot accept that a German student cannot come to work in France because his diploma is not recognized. We cannot accept that a Frenchman has difficulties in obtaining treatment in Germany. We cannot accept that the courts on either side of the border cannot agree on an individual's case. Europe must not be a blockage, but an asset. In the border territories, the inhabitants cannot understand these obstacles as they pass the borders of yesterday on a daily basis and freely. How can we today, in a time of globalisation, not agree to implement a common public policy? That is the whole point of this resolution. It will make it possible to experiment with this necessary harmonisation and finally give real daily visibility to Europe. For this, we will rely on the existing Franco-German Eurodistricts. We will give them the skills to experiment, in all areas of life of French and German citizens who live there. Don't miss it, wo ein Wille ist, da ist ein Weg: where there is a will, we will find the way to achieve it! True athanors, the Eurodistricts will then be destined to be reproduced on the other borders of Germany and France, and will contribute to the construction of an integrated Europe around the daily life of our citizens and not only around the economic idea – indispensable but too far away, today, from the daily concerns of the greatest number. France and Germany want to train all the nations who wish to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Our joint resolution gives us key keys to solving many technical, legal or administrative problems. But, attentively, we must not forget the cement of any exchange: the relationship to the other, the only guarantor of the breath and the growth of friendship and cooperation. We must therefore also mobilize to raise awareness and share the culture of the neighbouring country. I will use the words of our President of the Republic: "Away from an administrative vision, Europe is first and foremost a shared and living culture. That is why this resolution promotes languages, culture and twinning. To encourage these exchanges, we must work hand in hand with specialized bodies and reference institutions in the field of education and culture. These institutions play a vital role and I invite you not to hesitate to contact them and to respond to their invitations in your territories and constituencies. We have a lot to learn from each other. We can only get out of it grown up. Of course, as chairman of the France-Germany friendship group of the National Assembly, I will endeavour to ensure that these exchanges benefit everyone, so that each and every one of you can return to your constituencies with new ideas and projects based on the benefits of cooperation between Germany and France. Franco-German cooperation, which we outline today, places us with a huge responsibility for the future. We infuse the ambitious plan to initiate a European identity between French and Germans. Our method of work will be that of discussing democratic and contradictory ideas. Our red thread, our objective will be the daily interest of our fellow citizens. Our joint resolution, more than just an act of friendship between two nations, here takes on a fundamental aspect in the model of civilization that must ensure human progress tomorrow. I call for a civilization where the debate on democratic and contradictory ideas would be fully integrated into the European identity. From tomorrow we, the French parliamentarians, the German parliamentarians, but also the French and German colleagues of the European Parliament, will get to work. Ladies and gentlemen, this joint resolution intensifyes cooperation between the National Assembly and the Bundestag. We will organise the joint work of the representatives of each of our committees, regularise our exchanges, harmonise our legislative procedures and improve our cooperation at European and international level. Parliamentarians who support this resolution urge their respective governments to draft a new treaty during 2018 that complements, improves and perfects the 1963 Elysée Treaty. Today, the discussion takes place at the Franco-German level, but this project does not end there: it is intended to extend to all our European neighbours who wish to do so. This resolution must be the driving force behind a greater plan for Europe to exist in the eyes of all. The time has come for us to act: let us mark history, let us give life to the Europe of peoples. Nothing is ever acquired: on all sides the fears of some meet the hopes of others. Together, we will be able to face the many challenges that are hurling at our doors. We took the first step by drawing up this text jointly: I salute all those who have contributed to it, all those who live the Franco-German friendship on a daily basis. [[Applause on all benches]] Colleagues, dear friends, dear citizens, dear European citizens, I invite you to show courage and voluntarism. Let's break with past habits, let's go together towards the future, a future that we will have chosen not to undergo. Es lebe die deutsch-französische Freundschaft in Europa – live the Franco-German friendship in Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u77	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Bundestag, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Freunde, I am a Lorrain: I come from a frontier territory, from one of these territories where memory is all the more vivid as it is housed in the perils of each of our routes, our routes. The one I did in preparing this intervention is the one that goes from the hill of Sion, from where one perceives the line of the Vosges, to the coast of Meuse, to this ridge of the Eparges where more than ten thousand men fell for a few meters in 1915, foreshadowing the battle of Verdun. On the one hand, the writer Maurice Genevoix; on the other, Ernst Jünger, the author of steel thunderstorms. They tell the same tragedy: that of our two peoples. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] I could have taken another route, and, from Nancy, follow the course of the Moselle, to reach Metz. In Nancy, we could remember this police station, which the agents showed – a unique case in the country – of a civil disobedience that avoided the bulk of Nancy's raid. These men are righteous among the nations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I could also have, along the Moselle, joined Scy-Chazelles; By this route of humility, I would have found the profound humanism which animated Robert Schuman in this annexation territory, and which prepared the crossing of borders. This vivid memory is that of the 36,000 monuments to the dead built after the war as instruments of resilience, these monuments to the dead where are inscribed familiar names to almost all French homes. I could also mention the largest German necropolis of the Second World War, next to Toul, in Andilly, where 33,000 German soldiers lie in peace, of whom we remember and to whom we pay tribute every year. Those who, like me, come from these territories, have under their soles the dust of these cemeteries and the memory of these places of tragedy. During the ceremonies held in memory of these soldiers, which unite us with our German colleagues – often from the Bundestag – I think every time about this painting by Goya entitled La Rixe, which Michel Serres beautifully commented on. There are two characters striking each other with a gourdine in a swamp; Michel Serres added that inevitably, each of the blows they give themselves sinks them deeper. That was the fate of our peoples. To remember these tragedies, we have a master of memory, who comes from across the Alps; It's Primo Levi, who repeats the poem he gave as a reminder to his book. If he is a man: "Consider if he is a man [...], consider if he is a woman [...], think about it in your house, in the street, by lying down, by rising up; repeat it to your children. » It has been fifty-five years since a new frontier was established, which resembles this definition of Régis Debray: "a hospital limit guaranteeing the diversity of the world". This border that our children are joyfully crossing today is the result of a struggle. We have been against Germany in the two senses of the word: in the sense that we have been "in front" of it, first, and for two generations, in the sense that we are "behind it". Recently, in Jerusalem, I was told that the Middle East can keep hope by seeing the history of this piece of Europe that we built together. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, LR, MODEM, UAI and NG groups]] I remember the emotion I felt on 9 November 1989 when, together with several friends, we resumed the road we were taking to support Solidarnosc, this time in order to share our joy with the young Germans under the door of Brandenburg. This emotion seized us again on 11 January 2015 when, like no other nation, you, dear German colleagues and friends, manifested your fraternity in the crossing of the test. I am thinking of an event that took place exactly fifty years ago when General de Gaulle received Konrad Adenauer at Boisserie in September 1958. The conversation they had, on the night of September 14-15, will remain secret, but it is at this moment that these two heroes who fought against Nazism will exceed the weight of history to open up the future. We are heirs to this history; heirs, we must be pioneers, pioneers of new borders. We must reenchant the European account, which is the same as the Republic's account. To strengthen what connects our nations, we must regain the breath of General de Gaulle's Ludwigsburg speech to German youth: he does not speak to them about Franco-German ties, he tells them to look together towards Africa, this hungry Africa. Today we must tell the youth of the world to look at climate change, all the peasantries of the South that must be fed, the Mediterranean which must be a new frontier; Not a wall, not a cemetery, but a bridge. This is the horizon of the treaty that we must build: a new frontier for humanism, which is the modern form of courage, and of which we are the last heirs in the West.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u79	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, LR, MODEM, UAI and NG groups]] In advance, because – as General de Gaulle said in concluding his speech to the youth – although the world is dangerous, the stake is as always moral and social.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u81	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u82	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Bundestag, Mr Minister of State, Mrs Minister, my dear colleagues – German and French – on 22 January 1963, General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer signed the Franco-German Cooperation and Friendship Treaty in the felt salons of the Elysée. It was a historic gesture of reconciliation, when France and Germany had torn themselves apart for a century. The stakes were immense, the desire for peace too, as much as the desire to distance oneself – at least for France – from the United States. For General de Gaulle, fiercely attached to national sovereignty, it was France that was to lead the Franco-German couple. Despite the clear position of the French Head of State, while the treaty had to be ratified as the two Heads of State had imagined, the Bundestag added a preamble recalling Germany's fidelity to the United States and NATO. That is, if not a betrayal, at least a first warning from Germany, which did not intend to be dominated by France! [[Exclaims on various benches]] What exactly are we celebrating today? The Franco-German friendship or the fact that we put our knee down in front of Berlin? I am not among those who, like some here, make fun of their accent in terms that are not obliging.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u83	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u84	I am one of those who applaud the twinnings of French and German cities. I am one of those who subscribe to everything that can bring our two peoples closer together, but I wonder: having the best possible relationship with our neighbour, facilitating economic and cultural exchanges is obviously a good thing; building cooperation in areas such as transport, digital technology or education, that goes without saying, as well as deepening cooperation between border regions. But does this require a policy of integration to the pointer? I don't believe it. [[Murmures]] What do we read in this motion for a resolution? As I have just said, I agree with many points, but others are infinitely more problematic, such as the commitment "to a fully integrated European internal market" or "the question of the integration of refugees". On this last point, it is not certain – let me remind you – that Mrs Merkel's policy is a model of its kind. She kept opening the borders, until the Germans themselves told her that they did not want this policy! And we all still have in mind what happened in Cologne on an evening of New Year's Eve. I am not alone in refusing the abandonment of additional parcels of our national sovereignty: the peoples themselves – both the French people and the German people – do not want it. It is enough to be convinced of this to see the rise of a resolutely anti-European vote in the last elections, presidential and legislative in France, legislative in Germany. But once again, you don't want to hear it. You even go so far as to write that "France and Germany aspire to a complete and rapid integration of their markets". But where did you hear that? What France, what Germany are you talking about? Certainly not that of the peoples! Let me smile at the reading of the item on "close cooperation in defence": Defence Europe exists only on paper! Let's say: France, despite recurrent budget cuts, is the only country in Europe to deploy its army around the world. Do you really think that Franco-German cooperation will help to stem unemployment? How did we not think about it earlier! Come on, a little serious. History teaches us – I would even say: we impose it –: we must develop friendship between our peoples, we must increase bridges, we must build cooperation in as many areas as possible. But all of this must be done equally, respecting our independences, our cultures, our stories, our national geniuses. We do not want, our peoples do not want a new country or a kind of "deutsch-franc". They want a France and Germany that respect each other, a France and Germany that admire each other, but an independent France and Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u85	The general discussion is closed. The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u86	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Bundestag, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the conclusion of a commemoration which began this morning in the Bundestag, in Berlin, to continue this afternoon in the National Assembly in Paris. [[Extended applause on all benches]] First of all, let me welcome and thank the German delegation and the Members of the Bundestag present in the gallery. Let me also express our gratitude to Wolfgang Schäuble and François de Rugy for taking the initiative of this resolution and these joint meetings, as well as for the quality and content of their interventions today. For all those who believe in Europe, it is a day that counts and that will be a date because we are not only here to commemorate. Undoubtedly, the Elysée Treaty has been a turning point and even a cornerstone of the European integration process, but we feel that most of the messages that we share on this day, those messages that all the sensitivities represented in our assemblies wanted to make their own in our two hemicycles, are oriented towards the future of our two countries, towards the future of the European project. This close, unique, indestructible and precious bond between our two peoples obliges us and engages us. It puts us before a historic responsibility, that of the re-foundation of Europe. It is now that we must find within us the energy, the will, the envy and, let us say, the conquering happiness of giving Europe a new democratic, political, and social horizon! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups as well as on many benches of the LR and UAI groups]] Now we must act to reconcile the peoples of Europe with the European idea, and even with the European ideal! This is our responsibility; This is the meeting to which we must respond present for Europe, and for the world. The new political context in our two countries offers the opportunity, Brexit and the challenges facing Europe make it a necessity, and the 2019 European elections set the agenda for it. This means that the time for delaying and giving up must now be left behind, and that the time for political will and innovative project must be opened up. I welcome the willingness expressed on both sides of the Rhine to shape this new Europe and to do so by clearly assuming the European choice before public opinion, like the speech of the President of the Republic to the Sorbonne. Our two countries have more than ever a joint responsibility to the whole of Europe and to each of its constituent countries. The first chapter of this new responsibility is to give the European political debate an efficiency, an ability to decide and an openness to the citizens who have sorely missed it for years! We must end the incredible distance between leaders and citizens, and the opacity too often established as a principle of government. European peoples must be involved in the content of European policies, and European leaders must assume and claim to their public opinions the choices that are theirs. It is a change of culture, a genuine democratic conversion that must be carried out and that will enable the European peoples to re-approve the European idea and make it live. Chapter two of this new responsibility: our development model. We Europeans have a unique economic and social model in the world. We need to liven it to preserve it and to make it grow. We cannot simply have a common currency without jointly developing an economic and social policy. On this issue as on many others, the status quo is no longer viable, is no longer tenable. Indeed, what is at stake is our ability to fight inequality, to create jobs and growth for all, it is the future of the euro area, the future of European integration, the consolidation of our institutions at a time when, we feel well, the gap is widening in Europe, between the founding countries and the countries of the East. The times are no longer to be tarnished. This year we must agree on a timetable for fiscal and social convergence: this means harmonising corporate taxes and the European social agenda, with both of these two strands of joint action, objectives for progressive approximation and precise timetables. Similarly, we need to have a capacity to regulate today's great powers, I am thinking of the GAFAs – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – with a capacity to advance in terms of reciprocity in trade and recognition of the right of large areas of the planet to defend themselves in international competition, as well as in the ability to finally produce a common industrial and research policy. This requires an ambitious reform of the euro area with a substantial investment capacity and democratic control. As we know, nothing will be done on these matters without the common will of our two countries. Chapter three of this responsibility: facing together the challenges of the world. The challenges of this century, we know them: it is the security of our continent hit by terrorism, it is the crises that are multiplying at the gates of Europe, I am thinking of Syria, Libya and Ukraine, these are new concerns about the instability of the world, it is the migration crisis and the right of asylum, climate change and its consequences, development and partnership with Africa, the non-ruled globalisation that some are trying to impose on us, and of course the future of Europe and its influence in the world, and finally, it is the balance of the world itself. There will be no relevant and effective response to all these challenges if we are not united and united, and if Europe's independence and power are not consolidated. For we cannot make our voice heard in the world, act for dialogue and multilateralism, advocate for a balanced development of the planet, defend our model and our values only if we are united and united. In the values we claim, tolerance, freedom of conscience, freedom of thought, freedom to believe or not to believe, pluralism and secularism, there is indeed a proposal made to the world. That is the importance of our task: to make Europe a calm and radiant power, in the service of the well-being of its peoples and of the balance of the world. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups as well as on several benches of the LR, UAI and NG groups]] Colleagues, Presidents, we can see that: this moment offers us a historic choice, our responsibility is immense. I have no doubt that we will know how to grasp it and that we will live up to history.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u87	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u88	[[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM, LR, UAI and on some benches of the NG group]] Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Bundestag, Mr Minister of State, Mrs Minister, dear French colleagues, Liebe deutsche Kollegen, this is a special day, it is a special session... and for me, as a Franco-German MP, new elected, with dual nationality, a really strong moment in my life. Politics is also a story of men and women that joins history with a great H. [[Smile]] Allow me a few personal words: German by birth, French by heart – since I married a Frenchman – I saw closely the suffering caused by the conflicts of the last century in my two families, and yet I am not the age of Mathusalem – I am not very young, but not very old either. But it is true that when you have a grandmother who lost a brother in Verdun and your husband, a grandfather who also lost one in Verdun, knowing that it was handed over to the Second World War, and that my father was a Silesian – it is Poland today... It was a lot of suffering, and I lived closely. It was also prejudice, sources of misunderstanding, that lived on a horse between two countries. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on many REM benches as well as on several UAI and LR benches]] But I have also lived and seen how political will, how courage can change things. Putting one's hand to the other, trusting in spite of a heavy past, looking at the future without the will to dominate one another: this is what we are trying to do today. It is not a question of asking: "Is Germany better than France or France better than Germany? No, they both have a lot to bring. We have examples in history: De Gaulle and Adenauer, Giscard d'Estaing and Schmidt were mentioned, men who trusted each other; and on the rainy morning of 22 September 1984, Helmut Kohl, fifty-four years old, Christian Democrat, Federal Chancellor of Germany for two years, had in front of him, or rather at his side, in front of the ossuary of Douaumont, a Frenchman, left-wing man, socialist: François Mitterrand... (Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds.) A priori, many things opposed these two men, starting with their political positioning. Yet, beyond their differences, they shared the intimate conviction that European integration and Franco-German friendship are two necessary and valuable assets. If each one will retain the image of these two men holding hands in front of this ossuary, how to affirm "Never again that! If this image has gone around the world, it is because it evokes hope, and still today, the hope that if there are areas of conflict in this world, these conflicts can be overcome, that they are not a fatality, that reconciliation and cooperation are possible. Franco-German reconciliation remains an example in this regard. That's a long way to go. Thirty-five years ago, I do not think it would have been possible for a Franco-German elected member of the French nation to be held here in front of you. What a proof of confidence on the part of the French voter, who honours and obliges! This morning in Berlin, and tonight here in Paris, we are about to lay a new stone on the Franco-German building. The motion for a resolution before us gives a new ambition to a common European future. The ball has been taken up by us parliamentarians, not only by governments, because we have a particular responsibility: we are in front of the voters in our constituencies, and we must explain our actions and dialogue to them. This draft resolution of the National Assembly and the Bundestag is the result of a dialogue and collective work under the chairmanship of François de Rugy and Wolfgang Schäuble. I would particularly like to thank the German colleagues for their commitment and enthusiasm. We have had little time to draft this motion for a resolution and to organize this day, but we have succeeded. We thus reaffirm our willingness to act together for Europe. But we must also seek a new quality in our relations and in our common work, not to seek to impose our views but to dialogue and seek complementarity. The text of this resolution is in fact a working document, which invites us to become much more concrete and sets specific objectives. As these objectives have already been widely discussed by previous speakers, I would like to highlight the issue of youth. It is through it that our peoples will become aware that our differences are not obstacles, but our best asset. For Europe, interculturality is indeed both an opportunity, a vector of innovation and progress and an indispensable tool in a world in profound change. It shakes our habits and invites us to think the world differently and, to move forward, to see it through another prism and other glasses. Friendship is not decreed, it is built: to open up to the other and to try to understand it is also to learn his language and his culture. As the resolution proposes, it is essential to develop bilingual and balance sheets, "Abibac", twinning and, beyond that, all mobility opportunities. Another major challenge is, in my view – because the world is changing and changing – to work together on the breaking innovations of artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, quantum computers or neurosciences. The digital revolution is imposing a change of scale that encourages us to pool our resources like our ideas. It is only on this condition that we will be able to impose ourselves tomorrow on China and India, which today invest more in future technologies than the United States! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] The question that also arises is: are we ageing societies that no longer want to take risks, practice ostrich policy and are installed in their comfort zone, or do we want to move forward? On all these issues, the role of our parliaments is to be a force for proposals. It is therefore necessary to set up joint working groups, as provided for in the agreement to be adopted by both of our Assemblies. I also hope that our Committees on European Affairs will take the initiative to oversee this work and meet as often as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the Franco-German couple is not meant to be exclusive. Its strength, as has also been stressed today, is to be open to all those who wish to commit themselves to building a more sovereign, united and democratic Europe. This requires bringing our views closer together and developing a clear common position. Which Europe do we want? What dangers do we want to defend her against? It also requires a clear determination of whether we are a community of destiny or competitors. We must therefore jointly define the concepts of sovereignty and the role of the State. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM, LR, UAI and NG groups]] As my colleague Christophe Arend said earlier, wo ein Wille ist, ist auch ein Weg. This resolution is an invitation to get to work: I look forward to our beginning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u89	Before I speak to the Government, I would like to remind you that the Conference of Presidents decided that the vote on the motion for a resolution would be the subject of a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u90	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Bundestag, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen of the French and German deputies, yes, the Franco-German relationship is unique. We know that and are proud of it. But with this certainty comes a risk, that of having so integrated the Franco-German reflex that we end up believing that it goes without saying. Nothing is easier, and yet nothing would be more dangerous: that is why this exceptional day – through the meetings held in both the Bundestag this morning and this afternoon in the National Assembly – offers a welcome opportunity to rediscover the deep meaning of the Franco-German couple. On behalf of the Government, I thank Presidents Wolfgang Schäuble and François de Rugy for this unique initiative. To adopt – in the same terms and on the same day – a resolution on the Franco-German relationship and the Treaty of Elysée, which we are celebrating today's anniversary, in the Bundestag and the National Assembly is to mark in the clearest way not only our singular identities but also, and above all, our deep and total determination to cooperate in all areas and to make together progress Europe. The resolution that is submitted to you opens with a simple and fair formula: "Franco-German friendship is a precious gift inherited from history. We inherited it from those who preceded us, and first of all from President Charles de Gaulle and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, who, after the tragedies of the 20th century, were able to set the stage for a lasting rapprochement, linking Franco-German friendship with European integration at the outset. This gift comes to us from political leaders who, beyond their political affiliation, have shown themselves to be visionary by putting in place simple and robust mechanisms through the Elysée Treaty that have met with immense echo in both our countries. For it is the citizens of our two countries who have appropriated this same treaty and which have, for fifty-five years, made it possible to make our two nations, so long enemy, more than partners: sister nations. Beyond the exceptional density of our institutional relations, the true specificity of our relationship lies in the proximity of our societies and their deep and shared will to work together. In 1963, only 18 years after the end of the second world conflict, it was not obvious: Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer needed the audacity to sign a treaty that would introduce multiple mechanisms of cooperation. In particular, it would allow exchanges of young people – thanks to the Franco-German Youth Office, OFAJ – as well as many direct partnerships between our territories. An intimate bond was thus born from this decision: cities, villages, families have met for fifty-five years. I recalled earlier that our generation had the immense chance to inherit this friendship between our two peoples, maintained since 1963 by each tandem of French President and German Chancellor. If it is a great capital, it is also a responsibility, not to manage an annuity but to continue to build. What would we say if not today, both to those who gave their lives during the bloody conflicts between our two countries and to the founding fathers of European integration, and to all those who patiently demonstrated that our disagreements – sometimes profound – could be resolved by law and by negotiation within what is only one family, the European family? This filiation obliges us. It is a call for ambition and a new breath: we must therefore, while recognizing that today's Europe is facing new challenges, maintain this pioneering spirit. In a world that is both more open, but also more unstable and always unfair, protecting European citizens means facing terrorism, but also defining and defending a regulated globalisation. If we do so in a national capacity, it is gathered within the European Union that we can really act. For this, the Franco-German couple is decisive: it is indeed our task to define common priorities and to act with our European partners, but also to strengthen our bilateral cooperation further. Indeed, we are far from having exhausted the full potential of our relationship. The Elysée Treaty, which has been supplemented on several occasions by additional protocols, is the basis of our cooperation. The President of the Republic proposed to draw up a new treaty on Elysée and to give the Franco-German relationship a new impetus that meets today's challenges. Three concrete objectives must be used in particular as guidelines: to develop our cooperation in the service of the European project and of security in Europe; prepare our economies for the future and encourage their convergence; bring societies and citizens closer together and connect. On the first point, European commitment, Franco-German cooperation must – of course – continue, within the framework of the European Union, to serve a shared vision of our common future. When we analyse the history of European integration, it must be noted that each progress was first based on an agreement between France and Germany. At all levels, and even more so today, as we are working to reshape Europe, we must exchange and define compromises that then serve the European project. It is not always easy, because it is not uncommon for our starting positions to diverge, but that is precisely what makes the European value of the Franco-German couple. However, Franco-German cooperation is neither exclusive nor confined: it is the opposite. It is a necessary, but in no way sufficient, condition for the progress of the European Union, and in particular of the euro area. Together we must convince and train our partners, as we have done in the field of defence with the launch of permanent structured cooperation and the European Defence Fund project. Franco-German cooperation must best accompany and prepare our economies and our societies for the changes that are taking place. In the face of globalization and the digital revolution, our two economies face similar challenges. We must therefore move towards greater economic integration, including tax integration. Let us adapt together to the challenges of the 21st century: ecological transition, digital revolution and breaking innovation. Let us promote social convergence from the top, as we have done in the European Union by issuing an agreement in the Council of Ministers last October to amend the directive on the posting of workers. This cooperation must be anchored in the daily lives of the citizens of our two countries. From school onwards, we need to give a new dynamic to learning the partner's language. I would like to recall here the major effort that we have made on this subject, since the beginning of September 2017, with the restoration of the balance sheets classes. We hope that a similar effort can be made by the German Länder, because multilingualism is an employment passport for our young people as much as an indispensable part of their training. In the field of apprenticeship and vocational training, we are carrying out ambitious reform projects at national level: we want to develop exchanges of apprentices as well as joint training. This is essential if we want to make Erasmus + a real chance for all young people. How can we resign ourselves to ensuring that European mobility is reserved only for students enrolled in classical higher education courses? Jean Arthuis has just made very fruitful proposals in this area, which will be considered by the Government in the very near future. There is also Franco-German cooperation, sometimes more discreet but often very effective, of which there is not enough talk: cross-border cooperation. I know, Mr Schäuble, that you are particularly sensitive. Regions such as Baden-Württemberg and Alsace measure how much a common border must now constitute a bridge and an opportunity in terms of growth and employment. Let us make our 450 kilometres of common borders in the heart of Europe a laboratory of new mobilitys and new simplifications! Let us experiment here what can make the daily lives of tens of millions of Europeans living near a border easier tomorrow. It is up to us to take full advantage of this opportunity and to make our border regions an area of cooperation that is perceptible in all aspects of daily life: language and training; improving mobility and integrating our public transport networks; health and the approximation of our tax and social legislation and, finally, access to employment. In all these areas, we can do even more. As you can see, we have the ambition of a deeply revised Elysée Treaty. The President of the Republic and the Chancellor met last Friday. We will formally begin the work of experts as soon as the necessary legal conditions are met in Germany. If France and Germany are expected by their European partners, they are expected first by their own populations and – which is exciting – by the young people of our two countries. This morning, I met a delegation of young people from OFAJ who wanted to present their vision of a "Treaty of Elysée 2.0." The citizens' consultations on Europe, which we will be conducting with more than ten Member States between spring and autumn, will provide a good opportunity for both France and Germany to better understand what people expect from European integration. They will help us to reshape Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as this motion for a resolution is being put to the vote, I welcome your willingness to send a Franco-German message of unity, determination and friendship that goes far beyond short-term political interests and echoes the joint declaration of the Chancellor and the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, UAI and NG groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I would like to say here that I am very proud to represent the Government in this solemn meeting, which shows that our two countries can give the best of themselves and thus build a better Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u91	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u92	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you to our German colleagues for making the trip and welcoming us very well this morning. Thank you for this beautiful symbol on the occasion of the fifty-fifth anniversary of the Elysée Treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-22-O1118.u93	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
