ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, to simplify and better regulate the regime for the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted establishments (No. 717, 774).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u2	Mr Michel Zumkeller, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u3	Madam President, the Minister for National Education, the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, we are today considering a bill adopted by the Senate on 21 February, a little more than a month ago, at the initiative of Mrs Françoise Gatel of the IDU Group, which aims to simplify and regulate the regime for the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted educational institutions. This parliamentary initiative responds to a real need to reform the reporting regime of private educational institutions. Indeed, the finding is unanimous: a result of laws dating back more than a century, this regime, which is now obsolete and complex, is characterized by its lack of coherence. For each category of institution – first degree, second degree and technical education – the conditions for declaration, the documents requested and the opposition procedures of the authorities are not the same, without these differences really appearing justified. Thus, the opposition periods available to the mayor, the academic authority, the prefect and the prosecutor at the opening of an institution vary between eight days and two months, depending on the case, which is short, in any case, and does not allow for effective control. In addition, the grounds for opposition are limited and surprisingly outdated: may be invoked only in the interests of good morals or hygiene, or even in the interests of public order for technical educational institutions. The requirements of school principals and teachers, in terms of age, diplomas and professional experience, are disparate, which may lead to surprising situations: no conditions, age, diploma or nationality, are fixed for teachers in secondary schools, unlike kindergartens and schools or technical schools. No work experience is required to open a primary school. The current reporting regime therefore lacks legibility and relevance, both for persons carrying proposed institutions and for the authorities receiving the declarations. On the other hand, the narrowness of the grounds for opposition to the opening leads to this paradox that a mayor or prefect cannot oppose the opening of an establishment, even if his director does not meet the requirements of the law, for example because he would have been subject to a definitive prohibition on teaching. It is only after the institution has been opened that the public prosecutor can be brought before it and the correctional court can order the closure of the institution. Mayors and state authorities are therefore disarmed and faced with fait accompli. The inconsistencies in the current system are all the more acute as the creation of private non-contracted establishments has been expanding for several years. I would point out, by the way, that a new private establishment is necessarily out of contract at first, since, in principle, it can only enter into a contract with the State after five years. While there were about 800 out-of-contract schools in the 2010 school year, the number reached 1300 in the 2017 school year, and the number of students in the school year reached 73000. This is an important figure, which needs to be relativized, however, since it accounts for about 0.5% of all pupils in school. The off-contract sector is characterized by its diversity, including both denominational schools, which accommodate between 40% and 45% of pupils, as well as schools offering alternative pedagogy, such as Montessori or Freinet, or teaching in the regional language. In view of the double recognition of the lack of readability and the inadequacy of the reporting system and of the dynamism of non-contractual establishments, answers must be given. That is the ambition of this bill. First, this text retains the principle of a declaration regime which it harmonises and simplifies. The distinctions between categories of establishments are deleted and the same procedure applies. The academic authority is the sole interlocutor of the project promoters, and it is the authority which transmits the declaration file to the other authorities, namely the mayor, the prefect and the prosecutor. The list of documents to be supplied is also unified, but also clarified and supplemented, to ensure that the authorities have all the necessary elements to exercise effective control. In all cases, in order to ensure effective control, the opposition period is extended to three months, while the grounds for opposition are modernised and expanded. The concept of public policy is introduced, together with the fulfilment of the requirements on the part of the person who declares the opening and, if not the same, of the person who will direct the establishment. The concept of child and youth protection replaces that of hygiene and morals. The Senate has established an obligation to inform the academic authority in the event of a change in the identity of the principal of the institution, in particular in order to avoid the practices of noun lending at the opening of the institutions. We have also adopted in committee an amendment tabled by Mrs Kuster, which is designed to prohibit a person on the wanted list from opening an establishment. If I share, of course, the objective pursued by our colleague to ensure the best protection for our children, this provision should not, in my view, be retained. That is why I will propose that you adopt the amendment tabled on this subject by the Government. From a technical point of view, the adopted amendment refers to the file of wanted persons, which is very broad and covers much more than the only people on what is known as the "S file", which was targeted. More fundamentally, its purpose is satisfied by the addition, among the grounds for opposition to the opening of an establishment, of the interest of public order: this will allow the authorities, in particular the prosecutor, who can access this file, to identify the persons concerned and, if necessary, to oppose the opening of an establishment that would be declared by a person representing a serious threat to public security or State security. Other amendments on the same subject were tabled at the sitting. My opinion will be the same: it does not seem to me useful to go beyond the proposed mechanism, at the risk of weakening it, due to constitutional uncertainties. Secondly, the requirements of school principals and teachers are harmonised, since the conditions of diplomas, professional practices and age will be defined by decree in the Council of State and there will be possibilities for derogations. Finally, beyond the control that can be exercised at the time of the coin opening, it is important to ensure that educational institutions can be effectively inspected when they are in operation and receive their students. As our colleague Senator Annick Billon's work shows, these controls are now insufficient because of the constraints on inspection facilities and because the control of out-of-contract establishments had not been identified as a priority until recently. The text proposed to us lays down the principle of control from the first year of the institution's exercise. The Minister pledged that the necessary resources would be mobilised to achieve this objective. The text also provides that the names and titles of teachers will be transmitted annually to the academic authority, in order to carry out the necessary checks. It also increases by four the fine applicable when a head of establishment objects to an inspection, and removes the condition of recidivism in order to order the closure of the establishment in such a case. These are the broad outlines of the bill that we are proposing and that I would, of course, invite you to pass. This text, in our view, leads to a good balance, in that it improves and simplifies the current reporting regime – which is desirable for both project promoters and administrations – while strengthening the scope of controls. It is very much expected by the services concerned, particularly by the academic services. It is important that it can be applied from the beginning of 2018-2019, in order to give them the appropriate tools to exercise effective control over non-contracted educational institutions, both when they are open and during the course of their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u4	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u5	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this law, which is concerned with ensuring better control of private non-contracted schools, is of interest to me only to highlight the silent but very real disengagement of the State in what builds the common foundations of a society: education or, more precisely, common instruction. It is not unnecessary to recall that the purpose of Jules Ferry's school was to form Republican patriots, that is to create a common attachment to the values of the Republic. Almost one hundred and fifty years later, Emmanuel Macron himself reaffirmed this thought. Yesterday, in his speech to the foundations of kindergarten, he updated it by saying: "It is our capacity as a Republic to preserve social cohesion by making the school the place of [a] real equality, that which erases this social determinism [...]. » Our school for all is therefore that of the Republic: this crucible where the soul of a nation is formed, where a people of citizens is formed together, where a community of spirit and feelings is gradually established. We all agree. To return to the presidential statement, I would say that it reveals the dysfunctions of our school system. On the one hand, attention is drawn to the need to preserve social cohesion, implying that it is crumbling; On the other hand, there is recognition of the school's failure to erase social determinisms. We can only agree with this double observation. But this situation has a cause. We sometimes talk about laxism in school, but the first laxism in education is not the state's abandonment of its essential tasks. This law teaches us that it is easier to open a school than to set up a veranda. We will see later that it only changes the requirements at the margin. What are they? A birth certificate, diplomas and an extract from the criminal record of the project holder; and, if he is the future director, his CV, i.e. the professions exercised over the last ten years, with a requirement of five years of experience in education. In addition, there is a plan for the premises, the funding plan and the school project, i.e. the age of the students and the diplomas prepared. It is also important to remember that non-contracted schools are not obliged to apply the curricula of education, but simply to ensure a common foundation, a rather imprecise minimum trade union: mastering the language; the basic principles of math; humanistic and scientific culture; the living language. In the report prior to this bill, it is learned that State control affects only half of the establishments created in the first year and a quarter after five years of exercise. It also states that a quarter of the checks carried out reveal shortcomings such as the occultation or interpretation of certain parts of knowledge in history, geography, science and art, or the absence of evidence of formal education or of the development of certain skills. To illustrate my point, I will quote the report "To the far right of the father", which no one can ignore. At the Saint-Project school attached to Saint-Éloi church, we see dear blonde heads learn that Charles de Gaulle was a deserter and the SS, an elite troupe. We are far from the school of benevolence, today proclaimed by Mr Macron! But this work also reminds us, and above all, of a terrible and dangerous reality: the significant increase – 60% in seven years – of private out-of-contract schools, with exponential growth over the last three years. Between 2014 and 2017, their number increased by 344, compared to 163 between 2010 and 2014. More and more families are deserting the public school, some having lost confidence in its ability to educate and educate their children properly, others seeking alternative pedagogies, concerned with the harmonious development of the latter, and others still wishing to transmit their religious culture. At this point, I would like once again to make Emmanuel Macron's remarks during the famous sittings of the nursery school: "The destiny of our country has always been forged, engraved in its educational system, which is [...] the mirror". I agree with this: our education system is truly the image of today's society, a society not diverse in its approaches, but fragmented. Fragmented on religious criteria: 45% of the 73,000 students in out-of-contract schools are in a religious institution. Culturally and socially fragmented, families with a cultural background or money orientating their children in schools that can cost between 5000 and 10,000 euros per year. And even fragmented by gender, some schools offer educational content with clearly sexist foundations. Of course, these schools only concern 0.5% of the number of pupils in school, but how can we still talk about cohesion and social mix in the education system when, moreover, the latest reform – that of the public high school – further undermines the autonomy of the schools, challenges the national character of the baccalaureate and organises individualised paths of knowledge, reducing to a minimum the common base? From the shared observation to the concrete solution, there is a long way to go, and in politics, as in love, only the evidence counts. I understand all the more the President's interest in the national service: it is a question of creating a mix and national cohesion around the values of the Republic when the educational system fails to do so. Despite the contradiction between the reforms under way and the fine presidential speeches, I refer to it one last time: "There is always something eminently political... when we talk about education." Indeed, but what policy are we talking about? It is a liberal policy that has no vision for school except that dictated by the European Commission and its "austeral" obsession. This liberal vision translates in practice into less public service, or a neglected public service, including education, and thus tacit support for private schools, in the name of freedom of education, without guarantees of State control to harmonise this patchwork of schools and teachings. And this law won't do much. Beyond these political considerations, all too often forgotten, this is the context in which this bill is put into practice. Unfortunately I do not invent anything: parliamentary reports, documentaries, press articles are sufficiently eloquent about the drifts of the out-of-contract school. The rapporteur in the Senate described the situation as follows: "In the face of phenomena of religious radicalisation, sectarianism, amateurism or educational insufficiency, the inadequacy and dangerousness of the current provisions are obvious". I now come to the heart of the matter. Mr Minister, the rapporteur, in view of this situation, I wonder what your text is doing to resolve in a concrete way the structural crisis that is going on in our school, which is manifesting itself to the full in private schools outside the contract. You're watching this crisis go away, but it doesn't seem to me that your ambition is really to respond to it. This text, which the majority are content with, makes us think of a bandage on an open fracture. I will be told that it goes in the right direction, that it is a foot in the door, that it is the result of a subtle balance between freedom of education and state control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u7	Meanwhile, generations of children will not be armed with the same knowledge as others, thus openly breaking the constitutional principle of equal access to education set out in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution. Because without prior checking, we have no guarantee that 100% of schools will be monitored and protected from dangerous teaching practices. Unless you consider that we can afford some mistakes in the education of our children! Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are opposed in principle to private non-contracted schools. Yet we too know how to be constructive and we are now proposing amendments that would help you to really implement the progress you are advocating. First, we are proposing a pre-authorization plan rather than a reporting plan. Under this scheme, it is up to the institution to pass on the names of the teachers involved in their institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u8	This has nothing to do with a motion to reject it beforehand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u9	Thank you, Mr. Schellenberger!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u10	When you put forward a motion of rejection, you do it sincerely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u11	Listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u12	If your fears are legal, don't worry! When, in 2017, the Constitutional Council rebutted this provision, it was only for a reason of form and not of substance, since Parliament had given the Government too much latitude to legislate by order. But today, we parliamentarians can legislate directly on this prior authorisation. In this form, this provision will certainly pass over the control of the nine wise men. If your fears are financial, forget them! The a priori control considerably reduces the controls of the academic inspection. This will prevent the proliferation of dangerous situations that academic staff cannot prevent because they do not have enough to cope with the crowding of schools – the number of pupils has thus increased by 6,000 in four years in the Academy of Versailles alone. This bill itself takes note of the alleged impossibility of significantly increasing academic controls, which surprises us at the time when the Government announces strengthening the control of the unemployed... If you still do not agree with this prior authorisation scheme, we propose an effective means of law to ensure that all schools are monitored: it is sufficient to incur the responsibility of the State in case of failure to comply with the monitoring obligations provided for in this bill. Thus, you can be sure that the Government will make the right budgetary choices by increasing the number of academic inspectors. [[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] You see, we may not have a monopoly on the heart, but you do not have a monopoly on pragmatism. And because we have the sad habit that our amendments are facing the ever-ending sentence of rejection, we can only defend the rejection of a text that does not afford itself the means of its own ambition. The committee of which I am a member will very soon have to consider the bill on false news. But wouldn't these out-of-contract schools help increase the number of recipients? Would it not be more effective to treat the problem at the root? No one can say that everything is perfect in public school. This is why some parents are seduced by private out-of-contract schools offering other forms of pedagogy. We are not calling these into question. On the contrary, the democratisation of the school and the increase in the number of pupils no longer permit a uniform pedagogy. We even believe that national education must integrate these new ways of teaching into the traditional educational palette of our teachers. We believe that new pedagogies, which are a source of individual development and collective emancipation, should not be restricted in the shadows of private institutions alone, in addition to non-contractual ones. It is in the full light of the Republic, widespread in all the schools of the nation, that these innovative methods must find their natural opportunities, renewing everywhere and for all the civic and critical spirit. On this point, let me quote Émile Durkheim, a great sociologist and republican. In his book Education and Sociology, he strongly refuted the widespread view that "education is... conceived as essentially a private and domestic thing." For Durkheim, "education has, above all, a collective function" and "it is impossible for society to be uninterested in such an operation". He calls for the greatest vigilance to "force educational action to be exercised in a social sense," so as not to shape a society where "an incoherent multitude of small fragmentary souls [are] in conflict with one another." It is the duty of the legislator to always remember that education is not limited to a set of knowledge and skills that are just right to be mobilised tomorrow in the labour market. Thus, I am sorry to see that students in the vocational fields still do not have access to training in philosophy, as if they were future working machines and not enlightened citizens who had to understand the world around them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u13	We're still on the rejection motion...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u14	Education is not a service like any other: it is a right for every child, but it is also a social duty that is of particular interest to national representation. Because every educational project has a social project at its core: tell me what school you're growing up in, I'll tell you what society you're about to live in. That is why the school must be taken away from the appetite of the markets, from the random individual trajectories and from the class differences that undermine our social bond. That is why we propose to extend the constitutional principle of free of charge in order to make it effective: free of charge of transport, free of charge of the canteen, free of extracurricular activities. I will be told that nothing is free, that it is always the taxpayer who pays. No, it is the citizen who fulfils his duty of national solidarity, to make these public services live that are the good of those who have nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u15	He's the tax-paying citizen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u16	The need for a national scoping of diplomas, curricula, statutes and timetables must be reaffirmed. All-embracing subsidies to private institutions must be stopped, while deep-seated needs are felt in a public system, both in terms of hiring and in terms of the training or tenure of precarious staff. The length of compulsory education must be extended from three to eighteen years, and we welcome the recent statements by the President of the Republic on this point. As early as three years, the inequalities which will then determine a whole life course are formed and widened from early childhood. Up to 18 years, because our aim must be to create a common foundation sufficient to enable the future citizen to determine himself freely. Finally, it is imperative to reduce the number of children per class, not only in CP, but from primary school to high school. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom and equality are not principles so opposed that it can appear at first glance. To the balance of the funambule that constantly vacillates, I prefer the dialectic that realizes a living synthesis of the opposites to overcome them. The equality required by the public school allows, thanks to secular education, free and compulsory, to form the first freedom: that of conscience. The freedom that one breathes by a benevolent and inclusive pedagogy allows us to gradually overcome the terrible inequalities and discriminations that divide us into our heads. Let us give ourselves the means to do this! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I have taken advantage of this bill to highlight the major problems facing our education system today and to discuss possible solutions. But from all this, your majority never says a word, or rather finds, preaches, but does the opposite of what it proclaims: social mix, benevolence, equal access to quality education are present in speeches, not in acts. An example of this duplicity is the bill on which national representation is to decide today, which does not even guarantee the necessary state scrutiny of non-contracted schools. That is why we are proposing this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u17	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u18	Mrs Rubin, your speech had everything from a general statement on education. I will respond in the same spirit but more briefly. I cannot let you say that the current policy would be a policy of disengagement: it is not true in substance, nor in form, nor in budgetary terms. In essence, intellectual honesty should have led you to recognize that a comprehensive strategy to strengthen the public education service is developing. Without describing it here, I would simply like to remind you that it is reflected in the priority given to primary school – you have welcomed certain aspects of this policy, and I thank you for that – and in other measures relating to secondary school and high school. The reform of the baccalaureate, which will take place over the next three years, also corresponds to certain needs that you have mentioned. Vocational education, which you have also mentioned, is also the subject of a form of qualitative and budgetary reinvestment. The budget data corroborate what I have just said: the national education budget is on the increase, and we have created positions in the first degree. It is counterproductive to caricature the policy we are pursuing, while it is clearly aimed at strengthening the school of the Republic. We lead it in transparency, and we can demonstrate, prove, each of the elements we advance. Of course, one or the other of these elements can be discussed, but overall management seems to me difficult to challenge without being in bad faith. If this bill may seem unsatisfactory to you, it cannot displease you completely. As you have noted, it is the result of a republican approach that ensures that freedom of education – which is one of the main principles of the Republic – is preserved, but also that this education is not given to our children in any way. I believe that there is consensus on this point in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Through this text, we are beginning to lay the legal basis for preventing drifts. They are absolutely necessary, even if I agree with you that they are not sufficient. They will then have to be implemented. I undertake before the national representation to organize the rectorates in order to carry out the checks in accordance with the law, in its letter as well as in its spirit. His spirit, I would like to say again, and that is why we are here this evening, is to avoid the students being embezzled into extremities incompatible with the principles of our Republic, a fortiori in the context we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u19	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, Mr François Pupponi has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u20	We will vote against this motion to reject beforehand, because I think we need to debate this text in order to move forward. It is important to legislate very quickly, because everyone sees that there is a legal vacuum because of the length of time and the inadequacy of the texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u21	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u22	This text seemed so weak to us in view of the stakes, that it deserved this motion of rejection defended by Sabine Rubin. It seems to us, indeed, that everything is to be taken back to the base on this so important subject – we have both talked about it, Minister. Frankly, our disappointment is great! I am afraid to know the fate that awaits our motion of prior rejection, which you must understand is our disappointment that motivated it. The continuation of the debate will allow us to develop our arguments and to compare our views on what should be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u23	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u24	I share many of the observations made by Sabine Rubin, in particular the urgent need to exercise greater control over private non-contracted educational institutions. But it is precisely because there is an urgent need for legislation tonight. Of course, this bill is not entirely satisfactory, and that is why we will be presenting amendments to improve it. That is precisely why we must not put an end to the debate. The GDR Group will not vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u25	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Attal, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u26	The minister said the most important thing. The statements made in defence of this motion of prior rejection contained many paradoxes, many incoherences. You are talking about the disengagement of the State, but precisely, with this bill, the State takes over control and supervision over out-of-contract education. You call yourself "practical" and "constructive", but you want to sweep away a text that everyone agrees is important to strengthen the supervision of a sector that has seen an explosion in the creation of out-of-contract schools. Non-contracted schools have grown because families have considered that the school system is not in a position to cater for the special needs of their children. We believe that everything must be done, precisely, to ensure that he has the means to take charge of them: that is the meaning of our action. You said that the school must be able to teach according to various pedagogies, in order to take charge of the diversity of students: that is exactly what we do. Sophie Cluzel and Jean-Michel Blanquer work at an inclusive school, and tour Europe to learn from good practices. The Minister of National Education insists on the role of neurosciences, and assumes – finally! – the idea that the school of the Republic can draw on the alternative methods developed in some non-contracted schools that we have in mind. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have to put the house in order, and that's what this text is about. We know the context in which it was presented by the Prime Minister as part of the plan to combat radicalisation. We know why it is important to be able to frame the opening of these institutions, to monitor them for what is happening there, what is being said there. Mrs Rubin, you have reminded us of the way things are going in certain establishments: we must put an end to them, and for that we must be able to control them. That is the purpose of this text, and that is why we will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u27	Mr Patrick Hetzel, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u28	We have already discussed, in the previous parliamentary term, issues that are quite similar to those we are going to discuss this evening, in particular on the occasion of the text on equality and citizenship. I would like to solemnly recall that some of its provisions have been censored by the Constitutional Council because of their non-compliance with the constitutional principle of freedom of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u29	That's not exactly what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u30	How can freedom of education be reconciled with the protection of our youth, our children? How can we reconcile controls and freedom? These are the questions that arise for us. The important thing this evening is to find a balance, inevitably fragile, between the need to control these institutions and the obligation to respect the freedom of education. The bill as passed by the Senate makes it possible to achieve this balance, even if it remains perfectable – it is good to change the law that we sit in this House. I therefore find it difficult to understand the value of this motion for prior rejection, which would set this text straight and put an end to the debate, which would not be a good thing. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the contrary, I believe that it is urgent to answer this question with wisdom, weight and responsibility. We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u31	Mrs Geraldine Bannier, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u32	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will, of course, vote against the previous rejection motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. The bill fully responds to the need for the authorities to have additional tools to better control the opening of non-contracted schools. We also recall, like our colleague Patrick Hetzel, that freedom of education is a principle of constitutional value that must be respected. Various provisions of the text will strengthen our legal framework, make it more legible. The powers of the competent authorities will be extended, which fully satisfies us. We cannot therefore support Mrs Rubin's motion for a preliminary rejection, which, moreover, seemed to us to be too general.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u33	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Naegelen, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u34	We will, of course, vote against this motion of rejection for several reasons. The first was developed by several of our colleagues: it is about the freedom of education, of constitutional rank. The second reason is that the bill includes measures to better regulate certain non-contracted schools. We believe, however, that we need to act quickly, concretely and firmly to improve this framework. Third reason, finally, some of these out-of-contract schools offer our children a different, innovative and enriching education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u35	I have received a motion from Mr Olivier Faure and members of the New Left Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u36	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law presented by our Centralist colleagues aims to simplify and better regulate the opening of private non-contracted schools. Adopted by the Senate at first reading, it has been profoundly amended at the initiative of the Government. Today, private education is organized in two ways: some schools sign a contract with the State, which then pays for certain expenses, in particular staff. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you two questions for a brief digression. Firstly, since nursery school will become compulsory, will municipalities be obliged to finance pupils in nursery classes in private schools under contract? Secondly, what will happen to the specialized territorial officers of nursery schools, ATSEM, who are currently involved in public schools: will they be linked to national education or will they remain within the competence of local authorities? Other establishments, with fewer but increasing numbers, are called "out of contract"; they do not receive State aid and are covered by a less controlled scheme. In these institutions, educational, intellectual, religious and philosophical freedoms are strong and claimed. There are about 1300 out-of-contract schools for just under 8000 schools under contract. Of course, they receive only 70000 children out of a total of 1.2 million children in France. However, and this is very worrying, the rate of opening off-contract establishments, in the order of a few dozen a year, is increasing sharply: this has already been said, but it is important to recall. This increased from 803 in 2010 to 1300 in 2017, an increase of more than 60%. Data from the Ministry of National Education show that the increase in the number of pupils relates in particular to schools not connected to a particular network, which are often alternative secular schools. Among denominational schools, the increase is mainly for Muslim schools, with an overall increase of 28 per cent and 36 per cent for primary schools alone, and for Protestant evangelical schools, with an increase of 25 per cent. This proposal for a law is based on a statement that we share: in the face of phenomena of religious radicalisation, sectarianism, amateurism and even educational insufficiency, the provisions applicable to the opening of these private non-contracted schools are obsolete and inadequate. Your services, Minister, are increasingly receiving reports from institutions that would only provide a very low level of education or that would not meet the values of the Republic. An inspection report for the Academy of Versailles in 2016, which was echoed in the press, showed worrying drifts: in about ten schools, out of about thirty controlled establishments, "the pedagogical dimensions are diverted from their stakes and amputated from what theoretically bases them". Worse, none of the controlled schools respected the common foundation. The report concludes that " vigilance is necessary on the effects of an education that imposes beliefs or beliefs and occults entire parts of knowledge for the benefit of an ideology." Mr.Rapporteur, the chair of your group in the Senate recently stated, with a phrase that is beginning to become famous, that it is more complicated to open a café than a school. So what do you propose to us? First of all, this bill advocates a unification of the opening regimes of all non-contractual establishments: in order to achieve a simpler regime, the three current regimes would be replaced by a single system of common law – we can hear it. Simplification would then involve the unification and modernization of the grounds for opposition to the opening of an institution: the concept of public order, which is now used for technical education alone, would be generalized to all levels of education, the oldest concepts being updated by the reference to the protection of children and young people. On the other hand, the grounds already allowing the closure of an institution – the absence of a diploma from the director, the conviction for a crime or an offence contrary to morality – could now be opposed to the opening of the institutions. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, are neither commensurate with the challenges we face nor with the ambition expressed by the title of this bill. Minister, the Government has recently presented a national plan to prevent radicalization, one of which is entitled "Protecting minds from radicalization: investing in school". Measure 5 of this plan proposes "to change the legal regime governing the opening of private non-contracted educational institutions [...]". We agree, but you add: "... by unifying the three current reporting regimes and enhancing their efficiency." And now we don't agree. While you are supposed to provide an effective response to mobilize the school for the values of the Republic, you make the choice of the status quo by making some adjustments to the provisions now applicable to the opening of private non-contracted schools, adjustments which this bill is the legislative translation. We regret that choice. Article L. 111-1 of the Education Code states: "In addition to the transmission of knowledge, the nation establishes the primary mission of the school to share the values of the Republic with students. The public education service gives all students respect for the equal dignity of human beings, freedom of conscience and secularism. The full respect for the right to education of all children in France, regardless of the method of education freely chosen by the family, therefore makes it necessary to make a courageous but necessary choice: that of replacing, for non-contractual establishments, a system of authorization to open the system of declaration of opening. By making such a change, you could claim to put an end to the drifts we see in our territories. Of course, it is a sensitive and complex subject, subject to opposing influences, but the urgency is there. Such a scheme would enable the establishment's creators to be supported by inviting them to think ahead of time about the compatibility of their educational project with the requirements of the common foundation of knowledge, skills and culture. I want to remind you here, but some colleagues know that this solution would not be new: it has been in force in Alsace-Moselle since 1873! During the examination of the draft law on equality and citizenship of 2016, the previous majority had adopted an amendment – to which I am not a foreigner – which empowered the Government to legislate by ordinances to review the declaratory regime for the opening of private non-contracted establishments in order to bring it into line with the prior authorisation regime currently in force in Alsace-Moselle. Unfortunately, as Mr Zumkeller points out in his report and contrary to what has just been said, this amendment was censored by the Constitutional Council on the grounds that the authorization given to the Government was not sufficiently precise. Freedom of education is certainly one of the fundamental principles recognized by the laws of the Republic, reaffirmed by the preamble to the 1946 Constitution, to which the preamble to the 1958 Constitution refers. However, and increasingly, this freedom is being hijacked by networks or groups that wish to provide teachings that are manifestly incompatible with the values of the Republic and that are likely to be contrary to public order. As a result, State services are increasingly closing de facto schools, which are often unrecorded and provide rigorist religious teachings, and where children who are declared to be educated at home are enrolled. In the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, we have defended several amendments aimed at moving from a declaratory regime to an authorisation regime. I have to say that the absence of hearings organised by the rapporteur on such a major and sensitive subject did not allow us to develop our arguments well – perhaps out of the will to go fast, as it is evident this evening, since we would be asked to finish the examination of the text at this first sitting, when we thought we would have some time to explain our amendments and defend our positions, including at the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u37	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u38	I must even add that the rapporteur's difficulty in resolving our doubts about the possibility that the text left to persons registered with S to perform duties in these establishments has not reassured us. The adoption by our committee of an amendment by the opposition, against the rapporteur's opinion, has shown that the majority was not sure of itself on this matter – I note that it visibly disappeared after the review under Rule 88, and that we are returning to the original text. The rapporteur and the chairman of the committee had invited us to work on this issue again before the public meeting. But faced with the absence of debate, we have tabled a number of amendments to ensure that the State controls that persons exercising functions in these institutions have not been convicted, even in a non-final manner, of one or more of the offences referred to in article 11 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that they are not included in the automated judicial register of perpetrators of sexual offences – which seems to be the least of all for persons caring for children or adolescents – or in the register of persons sought for the purpose of preventing serious threats to public security or State security – in particular S files – provided that real information or evidence has been collected about them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all convinced that action is needed. But now is no longer a mere fact, it is a matter of the effectiveness of the measures that we are adopting. In view of the overcrowded agenda of our assembly, we cannot afford the luxury of walking only part of the way. Mr Minister, you recently indicated on a television set that, once adopted, this text would provide a legal tool to move in the right direction. But it's not just about going in the right direction; It is a question of responding effectively to a growing phenomenon, which is dangerous for our Republic and its values. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] I am not defending this motion for referral back to committee, on behalf of my group, to prolong our debates in vain; I defend it, because we know that the provisions proposed today will not be sufficiently effective. We would have the opportunity to rework this text in depth by referring it back to committee. That is why I propose that you, ladies and gentlemen, vote on this point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u39	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Pupponi, I share many of your ins and little of your ins and outs. Listening to you with great attention, I have thought of several fables of the Fountain – the hare and the turtle, for example –, asking me why, you who know the realities that we aim for through this text, consider that this one does not go far enough when, over the last few years, nothing has been done in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u41	[[Smile]] That's why we have to take it all back! And then be careful not to end up like us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u42	I see that, hare, you want to become a turtle. For my part, I believe that we must continue to walk in the footsteps of senators, and when we arrive before the House, we must do what we have begun and which has been the subject of debate. As you know, there is no need to evade because the goal is also to be effective in the near future. On the substance, I am convinced that you and I are pursuing the same objectives and I would not like to see, for reasons of form or even unfounded suspicions, a slowing down of the pace or even preventing the solidification of the legal basis that we recognize to be in need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u43	In the explanations of vote, Mr David Habib has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u44	Mr Minister, first of all I will allow myself to respond to your very political argument that we would not have done anything. The spread of extremist ideas has grown in the country since 2014, and it is then a socialist government that has assumed its responsibilities, multiplying legislative initiatives to fight against this spread. It was a socialist interior minister who had the courage to point out the collective responsibility of the nation to a humorist who considered anti-Semitism to be a theatrical object for his performances. In the face of this minister's political risk by speaking in this way, few came to support him in the ranks of the right and among the other non-socialist forces. You were not in politics, I don't know what you thought about it at the time, but I, like many Socialist Members, felt respect for what Manuel Valls was doing then on our behalf, pointing to the anti-Semitism that was winning the country. Therefore, do not trial the Assembly of the past legislature and the socialist government for not taking responsibility for these issues. Yes, François Pupponi has just demonstrated with talent a request that can be shared by all the Members present here. We need to come back to committee to identify the legal aspects of the ban on managing or participating in the life of a school for Salafist leaders or individuals suspected of connecting with Salafist ideas. It would be up to the events, to the height of the concerns, to the height of what we owe to the children and the parents who expect from the school, whether under contract or out of contract, a secular vision, a responsible and republican vision in this matter. We will vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u46	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u47	We will vote on this motion for referral back to committee for the reasons I have explained earlier. It seems to us that this text, as our colleague François Pupponi has said, is not up to the stakes. I thank you, Minister, and all my colleagues in the Republic on the move: let us avoid permanent self-congratulation and self-satisfaction! You are a man of cold blood, but you often benefit from congratulations from the number of weekly newspapers and the press in general, which do not seem to us to correspond to what we see in schools. You have quoted La Fontaine, I will send you back to the morals of another fable: "Every flatterer lives at the expense of the one who listens to him. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u48	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u49	I hope that the majority group, having experienced the experience of two consecutive procedural motions, will not systematically impose a motion of rejection on the opposition groups, followed by a motion to refer them to committee as part of their parliamentary niche. For my part, I want to be debated; I want the Government and the majority to really debate the various amendments that have been tabled on key issues – pre-authorisation or declaration regime, monitoring, etc. I will, on behalf of my group, oppose this motion for referral back to committee, but it is in the hope of a real debate on the amendments. Let us not be forced, once again, to vote in accordance with the text of the Senate! In any case, a drafting error in this bill will certainly lead to its amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u50	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor for the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u51	Mr Pupponi, we know your commitment to this. You have expressed it in committee and you have just reminded us. You should therefore welcome this text. Yes, we have a duty to modernise the current legal framework, to allow freedom of education while facing the new threats facing our country. I believe we share this sense of urgency. The previous government, which you supported, waited until the end of the legislature to legislate, then proposing to proceed by empowerment – empowerment that was censored by the Constitutional Council. We, from the beginning of the legislature, are dealing with the issue, we are debating a first law that deals with the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u52	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u53	And this bill, adopted by the Senate and worked with the Government, concerns out-of-contract schools. We are aware of the need to better regulate the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted schools, in the interests of the children attending them, but we are also committed to the Debré Act, which defines the contractual relationship between the State and private educational institutions and deals with the free exercise of State-run education. We wish to harmonize, improve and modernize the code of education, to create an out-of-contract school of the twenty-first century that promotes the well-being of our children, the serenity of parents, and the confidence of actors, leaders or teachers, in private schools. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As often, some will want less, others will want more. We will then be advised to delay. You want too much, you want more, you don't do anything and you don't get anything. As for us, we are convinced that it is important to legislate, to move forward, and we will therefore vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u54	Mrs Annie Genevard, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u55	On this motion for referral to committee, tabled by Mr Pupponi, we can agree with the fact, undoubtedly unanimous: the lack of control over the system of non-contracted schools, the worrying progress of denominational schools, the inadequacy of regulation and radicalisation, the misuse of educational issues. Our colleague François Pupponi considers that the proposals in this text, which can be summed up in the introduction of a single and simplified system for closing down problematic establishments, would not meet the challenges in that they would be tantamount to maintaining the status quo, with some adjustments. I am sensitive to the authenticity of the positions defended by François Pupponi and David Habib, and I do not doubt their sincerity. I know they are determined to fight against a phenomenon that is of concern to all of us, especially today when we had such intense moments this morning at the Invalides, this afternoon participating in the white march. God knows that we are aware of the urgent need to combat the staggering progress, which is extremely worrying for the political leaders we are, of radicalisation. However, your proposal, my colleague, is consistent with your proposal under the previous legislature: to move from a declaratory regime to an authorization regime. That is precisely the nodal point on which we cannot agree, which explains why we were not voting on this motion for referral back to committee, the motivation of which is to re-establish a regime against which we have vigorously opposed, preferring, as Mr Patrick Hetzel has said, a wise combination of freedom and control. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we will not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u56	Mrs Sophie Mette, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u57	We understand very well the arguments raised by Mr Pupponi, which are legitimate, but the proposals put forward, if they respond a priori to the imperative of control, make the steps taken by the schools which would like to open more complex. The aim of this text is to find a balance between the need to better control, and thus to give the authorities the means to exercise this prerogative, and the imperative of preserving free education in our country. Free education also means that it must not be subject to disproportionate administrative obligations, especially when it comes to institutions and associations – I am thinking in particular of institutions teaching regional languages, which are well known to elected officials and academic centres. For the other institutions, we consider that the text provides the necessary guarantees. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u58	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Naegelen, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u59	This text has already been the subject of intense debate in the Senate, which has led to the emergence of a balance. It simplifies our law, harmonizes procedures and allows us to respond quickly and concretely to the problem of these schools that defy the values of the Republic. Our children will, tomorrow, be better protected, and the right to education, better guaranteed. We do not think it is necessary to refer this text back to committee, especially since the principle of prior authorisation that you are defending represents a real philosophical disagreement. Our IUD, Action and Independent Group believes that action must be taken quickly to ensure that this text is implemented as soon as possible, before the coming year. We shall therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u60	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u61	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u62	In the general debate, Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u63	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I accepted, after some hesitation, to be co-rapporteur with my colleague Sandrine Mörch on a flash mission on radicalisation at school a month ago, we were already aware of its particularly sensitive nature. Today, we all see how much this subject deserves our reflections and the paths we will propose to meet the particularly serious challenges we face. The proposal for a law that we are considering today is based on one observation: our answers are no longer in line with the questions and fears that we have in the face of the radicalisation phenomena that poison our democracies. The outdated nature of the provisions applicable to the opening of private non-contracted schools and their inadequacy in the face of the increase in the number of these schools cannot escape us. There are currently about 1300 out-of-contract schools for just under 8000 schools under contract. Of course, they only welcome 70000 children out of the 1.2 million schooled in France. However, and this is worrying, the rate of opening out-of-contract schools, a few dozen per year, is increasing sharply: 60% of out-of-contract schools between 2010 and 2017 and 25% of additional students between 2012 and 2017. Of course, non-contracted schools take many forms. In these institutions, educational, intellectual, religious and philosophical freedoms are strong. Some offer alternative pedagogies, which attract more and more parents, in search of other ways of learning. It is not Freinet schools or small Catholic schools in our countryside that are worrying us today. The Ministry's data show that the increase in the number of pupils relates in particular to denominational schools, in particular Muslim, Koranic or Salafist schools – you can choose the terms. Mr. As Pupponi pointed out at the moment, State services are receiving increasing reports from schools where the content of education is very low or from institutions whose education does not correspond to the values of the Republic. In addition, cultural associations are often supported by these out-of-contract schools. By offering varied activities on extracurricular time, these associations offer parents a practical response to everyday difficulties and can, in this much less visible and controlled space, succeed in having a strong hold on the children and young people they receive – they will sometimes even look for them when they leave school. This text, if we do not make significant changes to it, will not allow us to guard against extremist and sectarian deviances. Indeed, this proposal does not seem to be fully commensurate with the urgency of the situation. It will not, we believe, be capable of halting the phenomena of radicalisation which we see, not only in certain schools outside the contract, but also in the increasingly numerous situations of schooling at home, a phenomenon which, again, reveals the tendency of these families to exclude themselves from the system in order to claim a difference and defy the institution and what it represents: the separation between the private sphere and the public sphere in a spirit of secularism, which guarantees the possibility of speaking of religions in a spirit of peaceful openness. Unlike our historical organization where the spiritual is dissociated from the temporal one, which allows everyone to confront their beliefs with the functioning of the institutions and to make his own critique of this dialectic, the world of radicalization encompasses, in the same system, the same vision of the world where the concrete mixes with the abstract and where the temporal joins the spiritual in all the activities of the daily one. It is often this ideological continuum that is built in some of these out-of-contract schools and that ends up completely absorbing any critical mind and any possibility of escaping a destructive environment. The only effective answer, if we really hope to control the future of the children of the Republic, would be to move from a declaratory system to a system of prior authorisation for the opening of private non-contracted schools. A procedure of authorisation prior to any opening seems necessary, since, after the opening of a school, if it poses problems, the possibilities of action of the State and of the elected representatives are reduced within the framework of the declaration system. Everyone is put before the fait accompli; It is often too late, the evil is already done. Recourse procedures and procedures are particularly lengthy, and it often takes several years to close an out-of-contract school when closure is necessary. In addition, the five years required to go from out of contract to under contract work with an automation system that allows some to use the system to divert it. Our school is part of our common heritage; This is why the expectations for him are considerable in terms of citizenship education. The ambition of the Republican school, which you bear, Minister, in all your speeches, cannot be jeopardized by a text that does not fully address the problem and does not give us the tools and above all the human and logistical means to detect situations at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u64	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u65	Excuse me, Madam President, for slightly exceeding my speaking time. The majority opposed our amendments in the Committee on Freedom of Education. While freedom of education is one of the fundamental principles recognized by the laws of the Republic, freedom that is claimed by all cannot be diverted by sectarian or group-based networks that wish to provide teachings that are clearly incompatible with the values of the Republic. That is what we intend to fight. It is not a question of hindering the freedom to teach, but of bringing our actions and values into line, and of giving our institutions the means of our ambitions for young people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u66	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u67	I conclude, Madam President. ...and for the next days that our democracy intends to offer its children. That is why our group has tabled amendments to that effect, as we have already done in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u68	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u69	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of those debates which, historically, have often unleashed the passions in this House. The history of France, particularly the history of the Republic, is full of debates about our conception of public school, and that is so much better. Each time, two visions oppose each other, sometimes in a virulent way. We need to know why we should keep and return to what brings us together: the Republic. Defending the Republic, asserting its values and guaranteeing its pre-eminence are the first of our duties as parliamentarians. To talk about the school, in addition to the public school, is to talk about the Republic. First of all, I would like to recall that I and my colleagues in the La France group are fully committed to this fundamental freedom of education. However, as you know, only freedom of conscience is complete and does not allow any limits. All other freedoms are restricted because of their interdependence. Thus, freedom of belief is regulated by laws that also guarantee freedom of non-belief, and freedom of expression is regulated by laws that prevent that freedom granted to each other from burdening the other. In the same way, freedom of education is also framed by values that are superior to and binding upon it. The Education Code collects its laws and regulations. In these terms, it sets out the objective of education in our country: to guarantee the child the acquisition of the fundamental instruments of knowledge and the education that enable him to develop his personality, moral sense and critical spirit. He also claims that the school's mission is to "share the values of the Republic". However, the private school is gaining ground on the public school. I'll give you a few numbers. Under the quinquennats of MM. Sarkozy and Holland, 3611 public schools have been closed – one per day – while the number of pupils has increased by 250,000, with the decrease in the number of public schools accompanying the increase in the number of private schools. This year, the public school lost 30,000 students compared to the previous school year, while the private school increased by 7,000 students. Moreover, as has already been pointed out, within the private school, private out-of-contract schools are making the most progress. Of the additional 7,000 students who went to the private sector this year, 5000 were enrolled in the private sector out of contract, which in recent years has benefited from an annual increase of 15%. You yourself, minister, reminded the Senate on February 21st: "In 2010, there were about 800 out-of-contract establishments. Today this figure exceeds 1300. » In this context, the observation, to say the least surprising, which is shared by the majority, as well as by our colleagues on the right and on the far right, is that the rules for the opening of private non-contracted establishments are too complex. Ours, on the contrary, is too complacency with these structures. We therefore propose to combat the development of out-of-contract private schools by giving public schools the means to attract families and to win back parents who make the choice, sometimes in spite of them, to enrol their children in the private sector. So in my constituency, I can testify, the public school is not offensive to win back parents who practice bypassing the school card and who go into private. I saw the Rector's services, Minister, in an academy you know well, endorsing the students' flight to the private sector next year. No additional means are given to public institutions to bring parents back. In my constituency of Bagnolet, it would be possible to open an additional public college with all the children who should be enrolled in it. But your services anticipate the downsizing next year. I recall what characterizes the private non-contracted school: a completely autonomous management of the schools, no condition of diploma to teach there and no obligation to follow the official programs. The problem of private non-contractual education is first of all the abandonment of public schools. After quoting these figures on the exponential development of private out-of-contract institutions, you added, Minister – you will forgive me for my frankness, but I blame you for this –: "We can congratulate ourselves [...] on the growth of these new initiatives, because they can correspond to a pedagogical dynamic." I don't agree. These words, in the mouth of a minister of national education, are staggered, if not shocking. It is as if the Minister of Health welcomed the development of private mutuals, clinics and EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u70	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u71	I know you agree. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is as if the Minister of the Interior welcomed the development of private security companies to gradually replace our police and gendarmerie forces. It is as if the Minister of Public Action and Accounts welcomed a reduction in the scope of public services and in the number of public servants. It is as if, finally, the minister for the ecological and solidarity transition welcomed the privatisation of our rail transport or our hydraulic dams. I shall stop the blinks of an eye here, because in setting out this shocking list I wonder whether, in the end, the paradox that you have set out, Minister of National Education, is not shared by all the other government ministers. You welcome the opening of private out-of-contract establishments. Two years ago, before you became a minister, you wanted to record a video to support the network of private non-contracted schools Espérance Banlieue, which held a conference in which you could not participate in your great regret. I regret that I did not have time to remind you of it in the eyes during the debate we took part in on France 2: time has passed too fast. You would say at this conference: "What Espérance suburbs is doing corresponds to the types of initiatives we must take in the public sector... to contribute to the general interest, that is, the success of all the students in our country."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u72	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u73	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I do not have time to go back in detail on what these schools in the Banlieue Espérance network are and on the many polemics they have provoked. Teachers warned about their practices and several families removed their children from these institutions by raising serious dysfunctions that question the good respect for republican values. Don't worry, the following is for you. In the Rhône-Alpes-Auvergne region, the number two regional council – one elected by the Republicans – wanted to attend a flag raising ceremony in one of the Espérance Banlieue schools. Some local elected officials have decided to provide public funding to these institutions. The Île-de-France region, headed by Mrs Pécresse, has done so to the tune of more than 30000 euros. The Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, headed by Mr.Wauquiez, did so in the amount of 250,000 euros of public money. And, as a symbol of the abandonment of the public in favour of a dubious private, the mayor Les Républicaines of the commune of Pierre-Bénite allowed the installation of a school Espérance Banlieue in the buildings of the former municipal youth council. All these facts prove in concrete terms the affection of some of our colleagues for the development of private non-contracted schools. We are completely disobedient from these acts. It must be noted that in 2018, at a time when it is in the habit of claiming itself from the fight against obscurantism and for secularism, values that we all share verbally, public money still goes, directly or not, to private education out of contract, whether it is confessional or not. This text from the Senate could have been an opportunity to prohibit any direct or indirect funding of private non-contracted schools: that is not the case. That is why we have, of course, tabled amendments aimed at this ban. This text could have been an opportunity to review the opening regime for these establishments: this is not the case. Let us be concrete: if this text is adopted, it will always be enough, tomorrow, to table a simple declaration. There will be no need for authorization, as has been requested by many groups, including the Communist Senate Group. This text could have been an opportunity to prohibit any discrimination on the basis of sex for the enrolment of a child in a private school; that is not the case. Again, we want the text to be amended to ensure equality for all. This text could also have provided an opportunity to discuss the actual means available for monitoring private institutions and the teachings provided there: this is not the case. I would also like to warn about the inadequacy of the number of inspectors responsible for monitoring schools and the need to ensure equal access to education for all our children, as stipulated in article 13 of the preamble to the 1946 Constitution. A report published last year by the Academy of Versailles – you know him, Minister – points to an alarming situation: of the 100 private out-of-contract establishments registered in this territory, only about 30 have been checked over the last three years, and these controls, few but already very worrying, show that the students of these schools do not master the common foundation of knowledge and that some basic teachings are little and poorly taught. I repeat the case of the Espérance Banlieue schools: in the establishment of Montferreil in Seine-Saint-Denis, the success rate for the patent is only 60%, compared with 83% in the rest of the department. Finally, this text could have been the occasion for a real tightening of sanctions against institutions that do not respect republican values: that is not the case. Many here claim to fight Fake News. The aim of this text, supported by the majority, could have been an opportunity to combat fake schools. That's not the case. However, two pillars of education are joined here: the right to education, on the one hand, which enables everyone to build a critical spirit and acquire the foundations of knowledge, and the right to information, on the other. That's not the case. These two pillars are complementary: that is why we are fighting both for the strengthening of the public school and for a Council of Journalism Ethics, for example. Neither fake news, nor fake schools, that would allow the emancipation of our society and the individuals who make it up. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I wish to return to the concordat that remains in Alsace-Moselle. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it should be deleted. Secularity must be real throughout the territory. I hope that we will all agree on this point, especially since the agreement costs the taxpayer nearly EUR 58 million each year. When we talk about secularism and the defence of the public school, we must extend them to the whole territory, otherwise it is only words. Yes, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, this derogation from the law on the separation of churches and the State is not compatible with the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u74	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u75	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is why I reiterate our request to abolish the agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, we are calling for the outright abolition of private non-contracted schools to which, as you will have understood, our opposition is total. To recall some republican values was well worth that I exceeded my speaking time by eight seconds: secularism for all throughout the territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u76	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u77	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions for opening and exercising private non-contracted establishments are of great importance to our country. They always require concerted, serious and balanced work, both the heart of our Republic and the intimate choice that families make for their children, while at the same time guaranteeing them – it is essential – quality and emancipatory education and education. Therefore, what should guide us is this line of ridge between, on the one hand, the freedom of parents to attend their children in the type of institution of their choice – in a public institution, of course, but also for some in a private institution, whether religious or not – and, on the other hand, ensuring that every child has access to quality education, which respects the individuals and values of our Republic. Freedom of education can therefore only be guaranteed if it is consistent with the right to education and every child has the assurance of being able to benefit from the common knowledge base. In order to do so, the State and its departments must be able to monitor regularly what is happening in these non-contractual establishments. They must hold them to account, both for the material conditions of the teachings and for the content taught. However, in the current state of the law, under the reporting system, the authorities have very little room for manoeuvre to oppose the opening of an establishment. Once open, the controls exercised by the State services are so few and so weak that they do not guarantee the right to education and respect for our values. Thus, we know that we let children drift in institutions that are anything but schools – they are more propaganda tools spreading ideologies hostile to the Republic and using teaching methods that are contrary to the dignity of children. Even if these establishments were a minority, even if there were only ten in France, they would be sufficient to justify this bill and the tightening of the control procedures. The school is the pillar of our Republic. It is at school that knowledge, knowledge and values are transmitted that are the cement of our country. Although the image of the black hussars of the Republic is no longer relevant, I still believe deeply in the public school and the fact that, among all the evils that go through our society, there is no one whose part of the remedy is not at school. In passing, I welcome the decision of the President of the Republic to open the obligation of investigation from the age of three. It is a demand that many of us have to bear and that I myself have defended in this House. It should ensure that, if schools are adequately equipped, social inequalities are addressed. More generally, everything that will strengthen the public school is useful in combating, in fact, the drifts of certain private non-contracted schools. It must be noted that in recent years we have been facing a significant increase in the openings of private non-contracted establishments. In France, about 65,000 children are enrolled in these schools. This number, which is growing steadily, can be seen as the symptom of a problem of trust in the public school, which it is easy to incriminate, but it also reflects and above all the wounds inflicted on our society with the rise of sectarisms, all fundamentalisms and all identity or individualistic folds. After analysing these deviations and seeing the emptiness of the checks undertaken and the difficulties of the mayors in opposing the opening of these establishments in their communes, we must act quickly and effectively. First, stricter controls must be made and State authorities and mayors should be given time to verify the various elements of the opening file. That is what this Senate bill is doing in part. In the field of education, the engine of our action, our only compass to know whether or not we are going in the right direction, is the interest of the children. For every open school, the State must be able to ensure that children are free from physical or moral danger and that their right to quality education, respecting the common foundation of knowledge, is guaranteed. It is about putting children and adolescents at the centre of our concerns. While freedom of education is indeed enshrined and guaranteed by our Constitution, the right to education is also guaranteed and, I would like to say, it is. By extension, freedom of education can only be regulated by respect for the right to education. Therefore, we cannot under any circumstances hide behind the argument of freedom of education to justify inaction in this area. This text, even if it is incomplete and even if it would have been preferable to introduce a system of prior authorisation, has the merit of now giving the authorities and mayors tools to oppose the continued operation of drifting establishments. How many local elected officials found themselves fighting in the middle of the summer, having barely eight days to prevent the opening of an establishment they knew could be dangerous for children? Thus, even if this bill does not go as far as we would like, it allows some progress while not being unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, we must act against pedagogical and programmatic failures – pedagogical failures when the only methods employed are to have students retake up for hours, programme failures when physics or life sciences are no longer addressed or when parts of our history are censored. Children must be protected from this non-education. Beyond the choice of parents, every child attending school in our territory must be able to benefit from education that respects his or her dignity, both in methods and in content. This right, the law must guarantee it; In order to do so, there is no choice but to strictly control what is happening in these establishments and to proceed with the necessary closures. This is the meaning of the amendments tabled by the GDR Group: to further strengthen the text in order to allow quality checks and to ensure the greatest vigilance on the educational content proposed by the institutions. In this way, we wish to re-introduce the educational project into the institution's constitution file, as provided for in the first version of the bill, so that the authorities can ensure that the right to education is guaranteed and that a minimum level of knowledge is respected. We also want to ensure that a check is carried out every year. Like you, Minister, I stress the need to give the academic directorates of the national education services – DASEN – sufficient resources for the officers of these administrations to carry out the checks. We also reaffirm that all teachers and school principals must provide sufficient guarantees of teaching experience before they claim to open a school structure. This text is in the middle of the ford. National representation could go further by introducing a system of prior authorisation and putting educational obligations at the heart of the monitoring criteria. Although limited, this text, however, goes in the right direction and offers new tools to prevent drifts in private non-contracted education. That is why the GDR Group, in the light of our debate and the improvements hoped for, will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u79	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u80	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, legislating on structures hosting only 0.5% of the 12 million students currently attending school could be seen by some as a waste of time or even as an insignificant proposal. However, in seven years, the number of out-of-contract private schools has increased by 60 per cent. It seems to me important to make it clear that only 45 per cent of students in private schools out of contract are in denominational schools and that more than 50 per cent of the out-of-contract schools created this year were alternative Montessori schools or democratic schools. This clear progression can be interpreted in several ways: first of all, from the point of view of a very dynamic pedagogical creativity in France, which bears witness to the reality of freedom of education; or by the fact that many parents have doubts about the quality of the education provided in our public schools, that they have entered into a logic of distrust of the school system; or by the fact that some communities, whether denominational or cultural, wish to teach their children specific subjects and methods that the public school does not offer; or, finally, the fact that national education does not find a sufficient response to specific problems such as those posed by, for example, very large dropouts or children with major learning disabilities. Although the majority of the schools inspected show a real educational quality, it cannot be ignored that some may present a frontal opposition to the values of the Republic, that others conceal some parts of knowledge in favour of an ideology and that others are characterized by a total lack of proof of school education. Today, the right struggles to frame out-of-contract schools that open exponentially. The purpose of this bill is therefore to clarify, simplify, harmonize and clarify the regime for the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted educational institutions. Indeed, this regime is very complex for the four administrations responsible for monitoring the opening of schools, with very different means of action between the municipal services, the academic services, the services of the prefecture and those of the public prosecutor; It is just as complex for those who want to open a school. Let us not misunderstand this text, it is not a liberticide. It seeks to strike the right balance between the constitutional principles of freedom of education and the right of children to education. Freedom is inextricably linked to responsibility: the State must ensure that children are protected from educational insufficiency, sectarian phenomena and radicalization. Control is also about accompanying and valuing while respecting freedom. We need to offer more guarantees to parents by broadening the points of vigilance. Hygiene and good morals are no longer sufficient, and attention must also be paid to public order, the protection of children and the acquisition of the common foundation of knowledge and skills. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the important work done by honourable senators, particularly by Ms.Gatel and Ms.Billon, which has made it possible to advance this text in the direction of greater relevance of controls. With regard to the opening of these establishments, legislative work has made it possible, among other things, to make clear the distinction between the person wishing to open the establishment and its director, to simplify the procedure by creating a single window with the State services, to unify the grounds and time limits for opposition, in particular by extending the time limit for the mayor, and to update the grounds for opposition. With regard to post-commencement checks, this proposal for a law requires the national education services to monitor these non-contractual schools from the first year of their practice. It shall provide information to the competent authorities in the event of a change in the identity of the director or legal representative of the establishment. It strengthens and makes more effective the ex post checking of non-contracted schools – for example, through the annual communication of the names and titles of teachers – and of their morals. Finally, it allows the closure of an institution in case of obstruction of the checks carried out by the national education services. I would also like to stress the quality and diversity of the exchanges we have had in committee. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to continue our discussions on this text. I trust us to find together a solution that secures as much as it protects, a solution that will also guarantee the freedom to teach. The Group of the Republic on the move welcomes the fact that this text was so quickly placed on the agenda of our Assembly, as it is a major instrument for strengthening the fight against the radicalization phenomena desired by the Government. However, this bill should not be reduced to an anti-radicalization tool. We believe that this text has found an appropriate balance that allows for the maintenance of freedom of education while protecting children for whom families would have chosen this type of structure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, it is with responsibility and conscience that the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u81	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u82	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to strengthen the framework of the declarative regime for the opening up of private schools, without, however, moving towards a system of authorisation which would violate the freedom of education, which is a principle of constitutional value. It should be recalled here that the provisions concerning the opening of institutions contained in the Equality and Citizenship Act had finally been censored by the Constitutional Council, which had found them to be contrary to the freedom of education. We are convinced that, in order to defend freedom of education, it is obviously necessary to protect it from its failures and, in particular, to combat any radical instrumentalisation of the school. In the context we know – this day is quite evocative – not to take the necessary steps to protect our freedoms, by securing them, is to run the risk of their weakening. However, we recognize that the existing law is perfect: the education code does not provide the public authorities with sufficient means to prevent the instrumentalisation of the school by radicalisation agencies, particularly Salafists. However, the search for a better balance between defence of freedom of education and public security must in no way call into question the declarative regime. A system of authorization would be contrary to freedom of education and therefore, in our view, unconstitutional. As it came to us from the Senate, the bill does not venture into this field, so we are not opposed to it, because it preserves the balance while maintaining freedom of education. Thus, on a subject that concerns a fundamental freedom protected by our Constitution – as we have said – the legislator must have, even more so than on any other, and according to Montesquieu's formula, "the trembling hand". The rewriting of the text, as carried out by the Senate, is very positive and makes it possible to clarify the existing law while making it more operational, more operational, with the updating, in particular, of the grounds for opposition and the strengthening of ex post facto control. Article 1 details the declaratory procedure for the establishment of a new school. It shall be opened within three months if there has been no opposition from the administration on grounds of public order or of child and youth protection. This was a major point of vigilance on the part of our parliamentary group, because in the area of freedom of education, we cannot – pardon, minister – entrust the essentials to the regulatory power. The text has strictly and precisely defined the grounds for the State's exercise of the right of opposition to the opening of a school, and this seems to us to be a good thing. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the means of public order and to protect children from radical drifts, but not to interfere in educational choices or, even less, to administer private schools on the basis of a single model that would have been defined rue de Grenelle. I know, Minister, that you do not have this temptation, and the comments made in this gallery by other speakers show that we are committed to diversity, which is an important thing. There is a very strong link between freedom of education and educational freedom, and one cannot force the second without infringing the first. So the members of the Republicans of the Senate have wanted – and of course we share this orientation here in the National Assembly – that any reference to pedagogy should be excluded from the grounds of opposition. The contributions of a network such as Espérance suburbs are very relevant in this respect, because it was freedom that enabled it to innovate and show that things could evolve in the right direction. Among the grounds for objection, therefore, the formula chosen by the Senate is the correct one: "if it appears from the plan of the institution that it does not have the character of a school". Indeed, to have the character of a school is to ensure the objectives and tasks of school education, mainly the acquisition of a common foundation which compulsory education must guarantee, whatever the pedagogy chosen to achieve it – I refer to article L. 122-1-1 of the Education Code, to which the bill refers with regard to monitoring. It also provides education in accordance with the child's right to education. For greater legal certainty of the system, the Senate has thus gone so far as to define the methods of control, and therefore the constituent documents of the opening file, while recalling its commitment to respect for educational freedom. It is, as we have already said, a crucial point. It is therefore envisaged that the declaration will specify "the purpose of the education in accordance with Article L. 122-1-1 in respect of educational freedom, specifying the age of the pupils and, where appropriate, the diplomas or jobs to which the institution will prepare them". In addition, the administrative procedure has been simplified by the creation of a one-stop shop with the State services, another step forward which also deserves to be welcomed. The time limits for issuing the acknowledgement of receipt of the file – it is immediate, and runs the time limit for reply – and the time limit for finding missing documents – 15 days – are defined in the text in paragraphs 22 and 23, which prevent any obstruction of any particular administration. We have indeed found that there may be a difficulty in this: we must not neglect it. A distinction can now be made between the person wishing to open the institution and its director. This is also a major clarification, because the conditions for starting or opening are relaxed, which opens the door to innovative profiles, and thus to a diversification of the educational offer. Finally, penalties for non-compliance have been increased, which shows a strong commitment to the above-mentioned balance. The new wording of Article 2 aimed at strengthening the ex post checking of non-contracted establishments is interesting and directly meets the objective of public safety. Indeed, it is once the school is opened and after at least one year of existence that the State services will be most able to realize the existence of a possible risk to public order. The text provides that monitoring is carried out under the joint authority of the prefect and the national education services, rather than only the national education services, which makes it possible to avoid certain deviations which have been observed. This text should in no way be the Trojan horse of those who consider that the school should be unique and uniform. Mr Corbière's remarks have shocked me somewhat in this respect. Our group will therefore ensure that this increased vigilance of the administration does not turn into unnecessary administrative harassment for the institutions and that, as far as the education itself is concerned, the focus on the pedagogy implemented is within the limits laid down. As for Article 3, it details the conditions of diplomas and experience required of persons who will run a private school and then those required to teach in those schools. The text makes a simplification as important as it is salutary by fully unifying the conditions applicable to the management functions for the first and second degrees. With regard to conditions of diplomas and experience, the requirements may not exceed those applicable to public contract workers without being contrary to freedom of education. The license and five years of experience in teaching are proposed here, conditions which we believe are acceptable, especially since derogations are explicitly provided for in order not to close the door to interesting profiles. I will not dwell on Article 4, which is above all an article of coordination. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you will have understood, for all these reasons, the Republicans Group is in favour of adopting the text in its original version as a result of the Senate, which allows for a just and legitimate balance. It is therefore in this sense that we will intervene during this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u83	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u84	Madam President, Mr rapporteur, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are discussing the bill adopted by the Senate to simplify and better regulate the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted establishments. The context is well known: while the number of out-of-contract schools is increasing significantly, at the same time as that of the pupils concerned – they are now in the order of 60000 – the law did not, until now, allow the competent authorities to oppose in time the opening of an institution which does not comply with the conditions required, due to too short a time limit – eight days for mayors – or to weak grounds of opposition – hygiene or morals. Therefore, the bill before us is fully necessary. It is also essential to respond to certain drifts. Of course, these schools do not receive public money, but better supervision is justified if we are to avoid the rare but serious cases of pedagogical indigence or communal or revisionist misappropriation. In this respect, the current situation obviously gives a special resonance to this text, even if it should not give rise to an overbidding. The bill put forward by the Senator of the Centralist Union Françoise Gatel is a balanced text, which guarantees both the freedom of education and the necessary control that the State must exercise with regard to the education of our children. It was also welcomed by a large majority of senators and the Government. This text improves and strengthens the reporting system; extending the time limits for opposition and extending the grounds for opposition, harmonising the three existing opening regimes and increasing penalties for failure to comply with these principles. Thus, Article 1 extends the grounds of opposition to public policy or to the protection of children and young people and specifies the documents which the file of declaration of commencement must contain, in particular with regard to the establishment and the manner in which it is financed. Article 2 establishes, inter alia, the supervision of private establishments in the first year of their opening, and then randomly in subsequent years. On this point, there has been debate in the Senate and in committee to determine the frequency of these controls. We were sensitive to the arguments of some of our colleagues who wanted to systematize them every year, but, in the interests of realism and efficiency, we agreed with the method chosen and the commitment you made, Minister, to the Senate to strengthen controls over private non-contracted establishments. In addition, we note the annual monitoring of the names and titles of heads of institutions established by this text. All of these measures seem to us to be fully responsive to the issues at stake. Article 3 sets out the conditions without which a director or teacher may not be appointed: conditions of age, nationality or seniority in a similar position. As has been pointed out, freedom of education is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution of our Republic. Nevertheless, the need to protect our children from certain abuses observed in these non-contract teachings is important. Freedom is a fragile good that we sometimes need to protect on our own, against those who would be tempted to abuse it at the expense of the general interest and for the interests of some. The debates held in committee last week provided an opportunity for interesting exchanges and relevant input on all the benches of our Assembly. The political groups have been able to express their concerns, which we must take into account, because they stem from legitimate expectations. However, we believe that the reporting system is sufficient. A system of prior authorisation, in addition to providing nothing new, would only make it more complex for non-problematic schools to take action. At the same time, the text provides the competent authorities with the means to react in time if doubt persists. That is why we do not wish to go any further on this point. On the other hand, on the system of prohibitions on management and education staff, the Government and the rapporteur will have to explain clearly to the national representative what guarantees these mechanisms provide, so as not to let pass individuals who would not have all the qualities that we are entitled to expect when they are entrusted with the responsibility of children – we have seen, moreover, that we should reassure ourselves this evening. While all of this is intended to better regulate out-of-contract schools and is, in our view, a step forward, we expect from the debate in the Chamber, Mr. Minister, some clarifications on two points: the extension of the prohibition regime to persons who would be registered, and the extent of the derogation regime provided for, particularly with regard to the five years of experience in management or teaching duties required to run an out-of-contract school. Finally, we must not neglect the issues that come from all these non-contracted schools that are only noticed by their remarkable pedagogical innovations and that are sometimes sources of inspiration for our own Republican school. They must be reassured because this legislation does not in any way affect their freedom. Freedom of education, a principle of constitutional value, is preserved and must not be called into question. This is also why the control of the chosen pedagogy should not be provided for in the law. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support the text before us, which, in this form, strikes a full balance between the right to free education and the need for the Republic to guard against certain abuses. This is the condition for not making the school a place for the instrumentalization of consciousness, but for full development. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] All French schools, whether public, private or non-contractual, are animated by the same and formidable hope, carried by the Enlightenment, of the emancipation of all through knowledge. With this law, we strengthen the conditions to see this dream come true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u85	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u86	Madam Chair, Mr.Rapporteur, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, national representation is today called upon to take a decision on a bill passed by our honourable senators to simplify and better regulate the regime for the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted establishments. In the field of education, we are convinced that freedom must be both the cardinal value and the principle that must guide our action. On behalf of my group, I wish first of all to reaffirm our deep commitment to freedom of education, a principle of constitutional value which enshrines the right of parents to freely choose the education they wish to give their children. This is a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic, which we cannot go back to. In addition to the public education service, private education must retain its rightful place. Our intention is therefore not to try the free school, nor to replay the war between the two schools, between public and private. We believe that, within the framework of a democratic society committed to ideological pluralism and respect for minorities, it is not possible to impose a single educational model. On the contrary, the diversity and wealth of private education, especially out of contract, must be stressed and praised. I am thinking of the Montessori-type establishments, as can be found in the Vosges, Vecoux or Girmont-Val-d'Ajol, which offer alternative pedagogies for our children. We can also mention the action of private institutions Espérance Banlieues in disadvantaged areas, where each beginning of the day begins with the raising of colors and our Marseillaise. At the same time, we are also very committed to the constitutional principle of the right to education, as affirmed in the Constitution and reaffirmed by the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as to the reality of the controls of these institutions, for the benefit of our children. The purpose of this bill is to include safeguards in the law to safeguard the right to education, while preserving and preserving freedom of education. It was born from an undeniable finding that the legal framework applicable to private institutions was inadequate in the light of current issues. The current system of authorization of private schools is based on three separate procedures, depending on the nature of the education provided by the institution – first degree, second degree or technical education. These procedures were defined respectively by the Goblet Acts of 1886, Falloux in 1850 and Astier in 1919, which are laws that have – or will have next year, for the last cited – more than a century. The co-existence of these three procedures, which involve the mayor, the academic authority, the prefect and the public prosecutor each time and in a different way, is a factor of great complexity, both for the applicant and for the administrations implementing them. In addition, the effectiveness of control at the opening of school projects is limited by the short opposition periods, which are eight days for the mayor, one month for the State services in general education and two months in technical education. The continuation of this multi-window system has the consequence of placing our mayors, and especially those of the small communes, in difficult or even inextricable situations. In the face of requests for establishment openings that promote ideas contrary to republican values, or which may lead to sectarian drifts, they are often deprived, especially since they have only eight days to oppose a possible opening and the statements often take place in the middle of the summer, a period which is not conducive to effective control. On the other hand, the administrative authorities can now base their refusal only on grounds of hygiene and morals for primary and secondary education, since the possibility of referring to public order applies only to technical education. Consequently, the lack of sufficient legal means makes it impossible to refuse to open a school. The example of the Al-Badr institution is eloquent in this sense: while it had been closed in December 2016 by the correctional court following four inspections, the opposition of the academic authorities to the opening, in the same premises and with the same teachers, of a school and a college was annulled by the administrative court of Toulouse because of the impossibility of invoking the reason for disturbance to public order. The report by Mrs Annick Billon, rapporteur for this text in the Senate, also notes the glaring shortcomings in the ex post checking of non-contracted establishments, both in the number of checks and in the training of the pedagogical inspectors responsible for them. You are committed, Minister, to increasing the number of inspectors dedicated to the control of these institutions: this is indeed necessary because it is about the well-being of our children. Our honourable senator's report states that, in the course of the national education services' controls in 2016, however, the shortcomings found, even if they are a minority, are not marginal. As a result, almost a quarter of the checks carried out in 2016 and 2017 identified deficiencies. Although they rarely refer to a frontal opposition to the values of the Republic, they sometimes cover partial and partial teaching of certain subjects, such as history-geography or, even more serious, sometimes highlight the total absence of teaching by the teaching staff concerned. It is therefore more than necessary to simplify, harmonise and strengthen these procedures, especially since the number of non-contracted private school openings has been growing steadily for almost ten years: from 803 in 2010 to 1300 in 2017, an increase of more than 60%. Although this bill does not meet all expectations, it provides concrete answers to these issues, without unduly affecting the freedom of education. By unifying the three opening regimes and by creating a one-stop shop with the State services, Article 1 deeply simplifies the existing law for the opening of establishments. It also unifies and modernises the grounds and deadlines for opposition for the administrative authorities. By adding the reason for public order and replacing the outdated notions of hygiene or morals with the more appropriate reasons for the protection of children and young people, we will now have the means of effective control. By harmonizing the deadline for opposition, now extended to three months, we will secure the local elected representatives, who will feel less trapped by the urgency and thus be able to examine the opening statements more calmly. Article 1e also lists in the law the documents which the file of declaration of opening must contain, in particular as regards the establishment and the manner in which it is financed, hence the origin of these funds. In order to improve the effectiveness and relevance of the controls, Article 2 now provides for mandatory control from the first year of the exercise of non-contractual establishments. Such monitoring will also have to be accompanied, as in the case of public and contractual institutions, by monitoring the titles and names of teachers, which will ensure that they are not included in the various judicial files relating to State security or identifying sexual offences or acts of terrorism. Article 3 unifies the conditions for running or teaching a private institution and establishes conditions of age, nationality and capacity that previously existed only in technical education, even if derogations are possible. Finally, article 4 will strengthen the efficiency of these controls by removing the condition of recidivism for the closure of a school. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Minister, our group will therefore vote in favour of this bill, which maintains a proper balance between the protection of the freedom of education and the right to education of children guaranteed by the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u87	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u88	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of education is one of the fundamental principles recognised by the laws of the Republic, while respecting the right of the child to education and the freedom of parents to make an educational choice. It is this republican injunction that leads us today to discuss this bill. We need a historical reminder: since the law of 31 December 1959, a private establishment has not been obliged to sign a contract with the State. There is no aid, which results in less control of his activity. Today there are 1300 out-of-contract institutions, which accommodate more than 70000 children. However, it must be noted that the pace of the openings of these schools is increasing sharply: ninety-three schools were established in 2016, compared with thirty-one in 2011. This inflation can be explained, of course, by the willingness of some parents to provide another education, but also by an outdated and inadequate legal framework. The opening of these schools is subject only to a simple declaration to the mayor, the prefect, the departmental director of education and the public prosecutor. At the same time as this significant increase, more and more alerts are coming to state services against a minority of these institutions. In question, the weakness of educational projects, a poor framework and, both in substance and in form, a political and ideological content that does not necessarily participate in forming future enlightened adults but, on the contrary, removes them from the rest of our fellow citizens – in short, they oppose "staying together" to "living together". There are many causes. Among them are the controls on their functioning, which can only be carried out a posteriori by the public authorities – in case of a desire to close down, it must first obtain a decision of justice by arguing for an infringement of morals, a disorder of public order or poor hygiene conditions – or even the failure to respect the common basis of knowledge. As such, we refer you to the 2016 report of the Academy of Versailles, which pointed to educational drifts; unannounced controls were needed to shed light on these actions. This subject is not new: it has been raised on several occasions in the National Assembly, notably in the motion for a resolution of Jean Glavany of 2011 calling for the establishment of a commission of inquiry on fundamentalist and sectarian practices that violate the laws, principles and values of the Republic in certain institutions. Similarly, the bill introduced by Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, Minister of National Education, in 2016, intended to move to prior authorization. His efforts were then met with a rejection by the Constitutional Council. From now on, this text proposes a number of provisions that could respond to the drifts observed: the simplification and unification of the system of opening up all non-contractual establishments in order to put an end to legal uncertainty; the unification of the deadlines for the examination of cases, with the introduction of a one-stop shop; Finally, the modernisation of the grounds for opposition to make them more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not questioning the validity of these provisions, but they are not up to the challenge. Our group, in its desire to enforce the Republican Pact, has tabled several amendments in committee to respond to the problems raised: they have been rejected. We proposed the transition from a declaration of establishment to a prior authorisation regime by the State. This would have provided a higher guarantee than the mere declaration, even if it implied an increase in the number of checks; increase the capacity of the State and the elected representatives to close the schools concerned; to make the services of town halls and the State more efficient in terms of opposition deadlines; Finally, to guarantee the interest and well-being of the child. Our discussions should raise the question not of moving from a reporting regime to a prior authorisation regime, but of how this new procedure would be put into operation. We should not question the "if" but the "how" of this new regime. Minister, our republic cannot have cultural preference or cultural preference. On the other hand, it must protect those who want to emancipate themselves, encourage the acquisition of knowledge within a foundation of common values and knowledge. This is not just about education, it is about protecting our children from all forms of fundamentalism, sectarian drift and manipulation of the minds of our young people. (Applause from the benches of the NG group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u89	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u90	Madam President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law which we have to examine is a simple observation: the system of opening private schools is outdated, inconsistent and in many ways dangerous. The obsolete nature of the current provisions has been highlighted by the strong growth of private non-contracted education in recent years. This increase is due to a number of reasons: a desire for alternative pedagogies, the choice of religious education, a desire to give more space to foreign or regional languages, but also sometimes, it must be acknowledged, a disappointment with regard to national education. The increase in the number of out-of-contract school creations means that we need to have a clear discourse on these structures. Of course, there is no question of preventing their creation, but it is essential to maintain them in a declared and controlled framework. If our assembly must respect the freedom of education, it must also legislate to establish strict rules for the opening and control of these schools. This bill responds to this need. Article 1 simplifies legislation by merging the three existing regimes. It strengthens the control capacity of the various authorities, including the mayor, by extending the time limits and grounds for opposition. He also added new ones, as had been pointed out by previous speakers. I would like to refer in more detail to section 2 of this bill, which affirms the principle of mandatory supervision of each non-contracted establishment in the first year. This measure seems absolutely justified to me. Indeed, these controls are fundamental in that they can certify that the teachings given in these institutions are not used to anchor any ideology. The text reaffirms that control is carried out in the establishment, which is also essential. In fact, some parents sometimes get abused by educational projects that have only the name of them, and some schools are limited to apartments where children, out of sight, receive something that has nothing to do with the idea of teaching. These ex post checks are of the utmost importance because some things can only be seen when the establishment is open. However, controls are still inadequate as a general rule. The most affected academies recognize that many out-of-contract institutions have never been subject to any control. Too few newly created schools are controlled in their first year of practice: less than half in the 2016-17 school year. We are well below the objectives set out in the July 17, 2015 circular, namely a check in the first and fifth fiscal years. It will be necessary, and we count on you, Minister, for the Ministry of National Education to provide itself with the means, particularly in the academies where the openings of such institutions are concentrated, to make this systematic control the first year of operation of the new institution. I welcome the assurances you have already made in this regard in your opening remarks. In order to be efficient, these controls must be carried out in close cooperation with all State departments, first and foremost the Ministry of the Interior, which has information that is sometimes useful in preventing unwelcome openings. Minister, the subject of control is very important. These checks should be professionalised in order to assist and support inspectors in this sometimes very delicate task. Annual monitoring of non-contractual establishments could also have been envisaged, as requested by some groups. But everything suggests that this annual control would disperse the resources allocated. In this way, we would risk removing the margin of manoeuvre of the rectorates and ultimately limiting the effectiveness of these controls. If an annual check therefore seems difficult or even unrealistic, it is imperative to strengthen the unannounced checks: this will be the subject of an amendment to Article 2 which I will defend. Today, it is clear that the vast majority of out-of-contract school checks are planned. In order to make it more effective, it seems to me important that they can be done here and there unexpectedly. Finally, as in the case of public institutions and contractual institutions, it is requested that such supervision be coupled with a check on the titles and names of teachers, in order to be able to verify that they are not included in the various judicial files relevant to the security of the State or identifying the perpetrators of sexual offences or terrorist acts. Although it sounds obvious, it is useful to remind and engrave it in marble. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill are in the right direction. They represent the outcome of a compromise effort aimed at establishing as simple and efficient a regime as possible, in accordance with the general interest but which does not disregard the concern to preserve freedom of education. That is why I call on all parliamentarians on these benches to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u91	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u92	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text which we are starting to examine, which is the result of the Senate initiative, aims to simplify and better regulate the system of opening up and monitoring private non-contracted establishments. The subject is of primary importance because it concerns a constitutional right that the State proclaims and respects the freedom of education and guarantees the exercise of it. It is for this reason, moreover, that the Constitutional Council, in its decision of 26 January 2017 on the law on equality and citizenship, reversed the desire of Minister Vallaud Belkacem to replace, by orders in addition, the regime of declaration with a regime of prior administrative authorization. At that time, we strongly opposed this approach because it threatened the freedom of off-contract and what useful and fruitful institutions could offer, many of which, let us recall, are not confessional. The development of non-contracted schools has been evident for several years and takes on many faces, from alternative pedagogies, to projects with special profiles, to schools established in territories with special social needs, such as the Espérance Banlieues schools, which rely on the school and social integration of pupils by traditional teaching methods. There is a useful pool and energy based on educational freedom that does not free itself from the need to respect the values of the Republic and the programmes. Thanks to the work of the Senate, which I want to welcome, the text has fortunately evolved and respects the possibility of creating free schools: it is a crucial point for us. However, in the context of the rise of out-of-contract schools, a phenomenon emerges and questions: one cannot ignore the very strong increase – almost 70% – of Muslim private educational institutions according to the federation that brings them together. Some, as we know, pose problems, not because they are Muslim schools – there are schools of all faiths and it is not a difficulty in themselves – but the rapid progress of these schools is in itself a message to at least very great mistrust, or even rejection, of our school system judged by some corrupters. As is well known, some of them provide teachings largely inspired by Islam, which aims to isolate children from the society in which we seek to integrate them. The State is now under-equipped to shut down schools that do not respect the values of the Republic or the quality of education. Unfortunately, this was seen in the case of the Koranic school in Toulouse. Article 1, paragraph 6, effectively introduces the concepts of child and youth protection and respect for public order. Similarly, the inclusion in the law of the inventory of the constituent documents of the opening file provides greater legal certainty. But let us not fool ourselves, the part is not won for that, first because Salafism, of which I recall that it considers sharia as the sole source of law, obviously makes the indoctrination of young people one of its priorities, then because there is much to bet that certain steps of school creation, which are highly organized from the legal point of view, will offer all the guarantees of compliance with the required obligations – "Potemkin" schools with the perfect face intended to deceive the vigilance of inspectors. By the way, let us point out the case of these Koranic schools which are developing in parallel with the public school. Nothing is more depressing and disturbing than to see little girls wear the almost complete veil after school to go to classes that will deliver a message that is sometimes exactly inverse of what teachers have tried to instill in them during the day. The control to which all institutions will be subjected, whether denominational or not, will therefore be essential and must be carried out with a firm and competent hand, without naivety, without yielding to the intimidation of those who will not fail to cry out to stigmatize, without yielding to the temptation to relativize the phenomenon by refusing to name it or comparing it to minimize it. You're right, minister, we have to name the problems. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, Minister, I would like you to make a commitment to return to national representation once the law has come into force to take stock of its implementation, the progress of the controls and their conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u93	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u94	Madam Chair, Minister, rapporteurs, in Béziers, the "Tour of Hope" school opened its doors at the 2017 school year. Don't dislike Mr Corbière – who is not here – she has nothing to do with certain clichés that would make schools out of contract for rich schools. School drop-out students are taken care of, those who, in mainstream schools, are out of school or who are no longer able to take care of because the classes are overloaded. With tuition fees of 70 euros per month, this school wants to be accessible to all, especially the most disadvantaged and it is not without difficulty because, here as everywhere money is the nerve of war. For ten students, the annual net income is €6500, while the operating cost is €82000. Fortunately, private support and donations help to bail out the caisses. But if we vote on this proposal for a law based on the stated desire to have control over the financing arrangements of an out-of-contract institution, there is a real risk that some schools will not be able to open because, as you know, it is the whole year that the money is collected. It is certainly normal that, in a certain way, the financing of these schools should be controlled. This, among other things, prevents Islamist schools from being financed by foreign funds or persons in connection with extremist mobilities. But let us be careful not to flout, under the guise of fighting Islamism, one of the fundamental freedoms of our country, that of education. Indeed, the right to freely choose the school of its children makes consensus, far beyond political divisions! And then financial control is one thing, but there is also control of the schools themselves. Controlling is of course indispensable to ensure the quality of the teachings. But when these controls are used as a pretext for a real inquisition on the part of those who exercise them, the risk of drifting prevails. Some schools are controlled by several inspectors and there everything goes: interrogation of the director, teachers and students, photographs of notebooks and binders, etc. Why so much mistrust? Is this not the terrible admission that national education fears the rise of these schools because it realizes that its own level is dangerously perilous? When nearly 700,000 students are out of control and more than 120 new schools were created last year, it is clear that the ministry is concerned. Perhaps a little questioning is necessary, and it must be recognized that you are working on it, minister. Yet this bill out of the closet of the former Minister of National Education, Mrs Vallaud-Belkacem, seems in total opposition to the progressive and modern discourse that you are posting. Fortunately, the grooming operated by the Senate allowed the text to be purged of its biggest flaws. Nevertheless, some inconsistencies remain. You keep telling us that you believe in freedom, experimentation, innovation and differentiation as a path to excellence. But to ban anyone who does not have the right nationality or has not worked in the education sector for at least five years from running one of these schools is simply to do the opposite of what you claim to be doing throughout the day. It is a preference for self-employment rather than the opening of international schools which are intended to be run by persons who are not members of the European Union. It is to make anti-innovation on the pretext of making protection. It is preferring to restrict the freedom of all to be able to control the serious drifts of some, and this while other means exist. In more depth, I believe that the proliferation of out-of-contract schools raises the question of the quality of teaching provided to pupils and the methods of learning. By obstinacy, sometimes by ideology, entire generations of students have been marked by an apprenticeship supposed to enlighten the minds of schoolchildren. For years and even decades, we have been inventing learning theories, making our schools labs and our students guinea pigs. But today, the figures are there: every year, 100,000 students are in a situation of dropping out of school! Non-contracted schools are for many a means of recovering those who no longer have an interest in their lessons and who often no longer have an interest in national education, most of the time it is a fact because of lack of resources. When the state is failing and we do not want to see a new generation sacrificed, we act. This is done with great courage by the overwhelming majority of these directors and teachers who are committed to our children. As Charles Péguy said: "The triumph of the demagogies is temporary, but the ruins are eternal. » Let's not let our children grow up on ruins...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u95	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u96	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, a number of successive layers of legislation imbued with the school dispute make it difficult to read the procedures applicable to non-contractual establishments. Most of us agree with this finding and, as has been said before me, there is now a need to harmonise opposition deadlines, to clarify and strengthen control procedures and sanctions, which differ according to each category of establishment. I thank my colleagues from the Centralist Union and IDU, Act and Independent Members, who proposed these new provisions. This text provides solutions to serious difficulties that have arisen on the ground. I was not yet a member of parliament at that time, but I followed, like all the Toulousans, the many twists that surrounded the closure of the Koranic school Al-Badr, more than two years after the first reports and several months after the decision to close the court. This case is indeed a case of school for the State services, the rectorate, the mayor, the prefect, the public prosecutor: all were disarmed in the face of the refusal to comply with the director of the institution, which gave this impression of impotence that we must now beat in breach. This example demonstrates that our law no longer responds to current issues, which require greater vigilance and responsiveness by the authorities when they perceive a threat to the physical or psychological integrity of our children. There is no question of leaving the latter at the mercy of reductive or deviant speeches. Risk of radicalisation – as we have all said – or sectarian confinement, unsanitaryness, lack of hygiene, avoidance of certain knowledge, abuse or educational shortcomings: all these reasons must be able to lead to a rapid reaction of the State services. With 73,000 pupils, out-of-contract schools certainly represent a very small proportion of pupils in school, but that is not the case. Let us make it clear: the out-of-contract is not out-of-law. It is under strict scrutiny and these new provisions, supported by the Members of the La République Group on the move, will allow for stronger and more effective follow-up. As a follow-up to the bill, I would also like to refer briefly to another type of private education, which does not take place in schools but in families. We will have the opportunity to refer to home-based education in the discussion of the articles, but I am already pointing out that its development is also a matter of concern to many of us and deserves our attention all the more because it can lead very quickly to isolation and conditioning of children. Minister, I know that your services are particularly vigilant on this issue, but it seems to me that a reflection identical to that of non-contractual establishments could be engaged on this point. Finally, I think that it is not pointless to ask more generally what sense should be given to this strong increase in out-of-contract schools. As a reminder, we went from 800 schools in 2010 to 1300 at the beginning of 2017, in an area characterized by its great diversity, since it includes denominational institutions – between 40 and 45 per cent of students –, institutions offering alternative pedagogies – which account for half of the school creations last year – and regional-language educational institutions. Do we have to worry about this progress? Freedom of education is a fundamental principle and there is no question of going back on it, but it should not become a refuge for those who are disappointed in the system, nor should it be a refuge for those who are disappointed in the system, and we must ask ourselves about the needs that some of these institutions are responding to. Is the increase in alternative pedagogy schools not indicative of the need to apply a greater diversity of pedagogical approaches in national education and to experiment early in kindergarten with pedagogies focused on the development of children? It seems to me that this is your ministry's wish and I strongly support this development. On the other hand, some schools seem to be responding to very specific needs that require both more flexible and stronger student support. I am thinking of those who offer a solution to dropouts, young people from the Judicial Protection of Youth – PJJ – or migrants, for example, by offering a workshop job and an adapted curriculum. A production school supported by the Institut catholique d'arts et métiers (Catholic Institute of Arts and Crafts) in Toulouse has tremendous results because it adapts its pedagogy and very strongly supervises young people who need other solutions than the more classical school, where they fail: almost 100% success at exams and a high percentage of hires, the school being linked to a pool of jobs. They are models to be developed everywhere in France – and even elsewhere, possibly. Other institutions accommodate people with severe physical or cognitive impairments that are too large to be received in a traditional institution, despite the very marked progress made in recent years in the care of children with disabilities. I am thinking of the primary school Les Chrysalides, in Rosny-sous-Bois, created by teachers who have seen difficulties in the care of children with specific learning disorders such as dyslexia. Is it not in the interest to select and support some of these institutions when they present solutions, even temporary ones, for our 100,000 school dropouts and for families who sometimes wait more than five years for a place in a medical-educational institute? [[Applause on the benches on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I wonder, together with several of my colleagues, whether the State does not have a role to play in both the control and the recognition of certain non-contractual establishments carrying out missions of general interest. This is an interesting avenue to explore, in a spirit of complementarity of offers and integration of audiences still excluded from the system. I hope, minister, that we can think about it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u97	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u98	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, very attached to the public education which I have attended as a student, in which I have been a teacher and, finally, where, as a parent, I have been schooling my children, I am nevertheless equally committed to the principle of freedom of education to which the non-contracted schools which are the subject of this bill subscribe. We are talking about freedom, freedom to teach – which is a constitutional right – freedom of establishment, freedom of operation, freedom to finance. But be careful, these freedoms must guarantee a right, the one that we owe to childhood and youth. Faced with phenomena of religious radicalization, sectarianism, amateurism or educational insufficiency, it turns out that the inadequacy and dangerousness of the current provisions are patent and that the law must change to take them into account. Also, as the New Dictionary of Pedagogy and Primary Education published under the direction of Ferdinand Buisson in his 1911 edition pointed out: "There is no need to hesitate: the only reasonable meaning of the word freedom, here as in any other field, is the exercise of a right which has as a limit the right of others, society remaining the judge and the guarantor of the mutual respect of this limit on both sides. It is therefore not only legitimate but necessary for the State to intervene in order to ensure that the person claiming freedom to teach does not simply intend to exploit the child with the help of indifference or ignorance of the families. Everyone is free to teach but on condition that he fulfils his obligations, provides guarantees, proofs of ability and morality which society considers as the minimum of precautions to be required, under penalty of delivering childhood or youth to impostors. The text, I repeat, dates back to 1911! This, ladies and gentlemen, justifies the need to legislate today, with the aim of better reconciling freedom and protection: it is a matter of simplifying and better regulating the opening up of private non-contracted institutions, of ensuring a posteriori respect for the school project and of ensuring that the education aims for students to acquire progressively the common foundation of skills, knowledge and culture – it is indeed necessary to distinguish radicalised fundamentalist institutions, whose values would be contrary to those of the Republic; It is necessary to protect our children, which this law will allow us to do. The proposal for a law to simplify and better regulate the system of opening and monitoring private non-contracted schools is not intended to prevent the creation of alternative schools which emphasize the development of the pupil, his autonomy, his relationship with others. These schools that advocate different pedagogies such as Montessori or Freinet, for example, are often sources of innovation and inspiration for the public school. We can even note that some of them are being created in consultation with elected representatives in rural areas, which they help to revitalize by encouraging the establishment of new families. I would like to stress that the application of this law will have to take into account the specific nature of the networks of associative bilingual schools. They belong to the Institut supérieur des langues de la République française: Diwan en Bretagne, Seaska au pays Basque, Bressola et Calandreta en Occitanie, ABCM en Alsace-Moselle. These are established networks, recognized by national education, which comply with the Education Code. Guaranteeing a cultural heritage, they help to maintain in our territory the richness of regional languages and their attractiveness regularly calls for the opening of new establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u99	These are under contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u100	Simplifying and better regulating the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted schools means striking the right balance between the protection of children and the freedom to open a school. Yes, there is a need for freedom but also for demands: freedom to open a school with five years' experience in the field of education, leadership or education, freedom to form a teaching team but equivalent to the minimum required in public education, freedom of the establishment project, yes, but without forgetting the gradual acquisition of the common foundation, freedom of organization yes, respecting the obligation to attend school, freedom of financing, yes, with transparency of sources. Yes, I am committed to this freedom of education and to the fundamental freedom of parents to enrol their children in the school of their choice...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u102	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...that this bill does not call into question. It brings coherence by homogenizing the rules of openness, it adds prudence by focusing on the quality of the staff and the acquisitions of the pupils, it provides the necessary beacons to ensure that the institution to which the families could decide to entrust their children is in fact part of a dynamic of teaching and respect for republican values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u103	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, since many things have already been said and we must now debate. I thank the successive speakers, many enough to support the bill as it stands. Both highlighted the qualities of the text that is being presented to you this evening. I would like to summarize them, as you have said in the rostrum. Quality of balance, first of all – this is an important point – quality of compliance with the Constitution – in any case vigilance from this point of view – therefore efficiency, especially over time, which is essential. I am thinking of the coming year that we must already prepare. I will not be able to respond in detail to those who have been more critical in the rostrum. From the first speeches, I felt again the strange paradox that there is to be accused of endangering education when it is practically the first text discussed on this issue since 1913. I think we could rather point out our initiative, which is taking on a problem that has not been, to some extent, so far. For those who would then blame us for going too far, I would stress this other paradox which would be to facilitate the existence of extremist schools, accomplices of religious radicalization in particular, while most of you deplore it. On the other hand, it is obvious that a law cannot do everything. Again, I have heard criticisms to which I would like to give a number of points of answer. With regard to the issue of extracurricular education, which had been discussed, it was clear that the right of association was being abused and that there were now particularly worrying associative phenomena. This law will not solve all the problems, I readily confess. Other laws will follow, and we will provide multifaceted responses to these multifaceted challenges. Similarly, several of you have rightly asked for more controls. I repeat that this is not necessarily a matter of law, but often of administrative organization. I have made a commitment to reorganize the rectorates for this purpose and I repeat that we will organize ourselves to exercise more control. I also very much welcome the request made by Mrs Annie Genevard and will come back to you as regularly as necessary to inform you of our concrete action in this area. I will gladly do so, because it is with great sincerity that I intend to enter a new phase in order to put an end, once and for all, to these unacceptable phenomena. We will not commit any abuses, but we will not be powerless either. We will guarantee full respect for the freedom of education, but we are entering a time when naivety is no longer in order, and we will be able to prevent what must be. Many of you have stressed this balance, and I thank them again. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the group on MODEM]] What I want now is for us to succeed, through parliamentary debate, not only in moving forward in the discussion of this bill, but also in enlightening – and I am at your disposal for this – everything that is not necessarily a matter of the drafting of the law, but of the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u105	Mr François Pupponi has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u106	Madam President, I would like to ask you for a brief suspension of the sitting, not to prolong the debates, but to understand how they will take place. Indeed, we need to know whether we are going to complete the examination of the text tonight. In addition, there is an editorial error in the text that was voted in the Senate. We would like to know whether the amendment that has been tabled to reconsider this error will be adopted, or not. If that is the case, the text will not be in line, and we need to know what to stick to. I would therefore ask for a brief suspension of the sitting to discuss this matter, including with the Minister. Our aim is not to prevent dialogue, because the subject is too important, but we want to know how our work will be organised tonight and possibly tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u107	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u108	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u109	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u110	I call Mrs Cécile Rilhac, the first speaker on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u111	Madam President, Minister of National Education, we are all committed to the freedom of education, to educational freedom and to the proposal of alternative pedagogies to enable every child to flourish. I am thinking in particular of children who have difficulties and who, for various reasons, find it difficult to integrate into our school system. This article, as has already been pointed out on many occasions, clearly defines the conditions for the opening and running of non-contracted private establishments. Some are concerned about the conditions for allowing these schools to open, which they believe could jeopardize our republican values. I want to reassure them: we are committed to republican values and we are committed to ensuring that these values are respected in these schools. I would remind you that we are in the rule of law. It is therefore our duty, as parliamentarians, to ensure that everyone's right is respected and that constitutional law, of which freedom of education is a part, is respected. This afternoon, during the question-and-answer session in the Government, our colleague from Val-d'Oise, François Pupponi, asked you, Minister, about the protection of children in certain institutions. However, Article 1 e r of the draft law states precisely that the protection of children is one of the prerequisites for the opening of these private non-contracted schools. I assure you, Mr. Pupponi: we are making sure that the Republican order is a reality for all our students, both in the public and in the private sector. We ensure that they are protected from the temptations of extremists, whatever they may be and wherever they come from. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The purpose of this article is simply to standardize the conditions for the opening of these establishments. One of our essential objectives for this Parliament is to simplify and make intelligible and coherent what was not, or was no longer, intelligible. That is why we will vote for this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u112	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u113	In recent years, the behaviour of families towards schooling has changed. The development of out-of-contract private education is not only a consequence of the limitation of private education under contract. It also shows a real willingness on the part of families to place their children in such schools. While some of the provisions of article 1, including the strengthening of control at and after the opening of schools, will improve matters for private non-contracted education, it does not address the problem of home school attendance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u114	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] However, given the worrying motivations that drive some families to join the private sector out of contract, the strengthening of control over the private sector, which we all want, may increase the phenomenon of home school attendance and even encourage the creation of real schools at home. It therefore seems to me absolutely necessary to extend the work we are currently doing on out-of-contract schools by working on home schooling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u116	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u117	My arms are falling! You yourself recognize that this bill risks aggravating a problem that we all know, that of undeclared schools, that have opened up illegally and that have been operating for years – I know a number of them. Your text does not tackle this gravissim phenomenon! You are strengthening control of the declared schools, but what are the networks we want to tackle? They open schools without declaring them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u119	They receive children in their associations who are officially out of school by their parents, without making any statements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u120	It's annoying, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u121	Your text does not envisage aggravating the sanctions and tightening the conditions for the closure of undeclared schools. These are the most serious situations, since these schools are out of control! In my constituency, an undeclared school opened eight years ago. I have seized the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Education, the prosecutor... everyone! And they answer me every time it's complicated, you have to go see what's going on... As a result, this undeclared school still exists and every morning children go there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u122	And let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u123	Everyone knows that's the problem! You're saying yourself that this is a real problem, but you're pushing the solution to later... The de-schooling of children is an increasingly common phenomenon in all cities. Parents take the children out of school claiming that they will go to school at home and, in fact, entrust them to associations, in total illegality. Since this text does not address this problem, we will have to come back and legislate again, not only on out-of-contract schools, but also on "de facto" schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u124	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u125	This bill deals with out-of-contract schools. The problem is that before you have a contract, you don't have one – and this situation can last several years. I am thinking, for example, of the network of schools teaching in the regional language or the Montessori schools, which our colleague Jacqueline Dubois mentioned. These schools are intended to be under contract and wish to do so. In fact, they often meet all the requirements – except for one, the period of exercise, since they usually have to wait up to five years before they can be bound by a contract. What I fear is that this bill will worsen the situation of these schools and complicate the conditions for their opening, which would still be annoying. The problem with this bill is that it makes no difference between schools that respect all the conditions for obtaining a contract in national education, who wish to obtain one, but who have not yet obtained it, and schools that are out of contract by choice, because they prefer to have more freedom – a freedom that can sometimes harm children. These are two very different types of schools. I would like the minister to explain to us the means that exist to resolve this difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u126	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u127	If control is an excellent hammer, we must not, on the pretext that we have the best hammer in the world, think that all problems are nails. In this case, I am not sure that we have chosen the most effective way to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. There is also a real problem with the public school. Why are some families – not all of whom are radicalised – gradually deregistering their children? The public school is in crisis. Similarly, this bill does not deal with school support, which is actually used to create de facto schools, nor does it deal with school attendance at home. Therefore, even if this article 1 tries to better frame the opening of schools without encroaching on the freedom of education, it fails to really deal with the subject – which, it is true, far exceeds that of non-contracted schools alone – the indoctrination to an ideology that also invades places of worship as well as entire sections of society. That is what we are tackling and what we need to provide a comprehensive response to. That is why I welcome the fact that this bill does not proceed by generalisation to solve a minority problem, that posed by some Muslim schools – because that is the real subject. Otherwise, it could affect other schools that function very well and contribute greatly to the educational and educational richness of our education system. At the same time – a fashionable expression – I hope that we approach the heart of the subject in front of us and that instead of passing laws, the state will give itself the means to intervene. For this, as our colleague François Pupponi said very well, it would simply be enough to apply the law. In my opinion, our legal arsenal is largely sufficient if the prefects, the police and the national education are to intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u129	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u130	In the current context of radicalisation, we are all in favour of better control over the opening of private out-of-contract schools. And that is what Article 1 seeks by maintaining the declaratory system while introducing a single window, it has the merit of simplifying the opening procedure while securing it. Furthermore, thanks to a very precise inventory of the documents in the opening file, it offers a new legal certainty. The State may, if necessary, object to the appointment or change of a director on grounds of public policy, child protection or a certificate of capacity. Mr Minister, you have insisted on your willingness to guarantee the protection of children throughout the Republic, an objective that the Republican Group obviously shares. While strengthening freedom of education and educational freedom, the values of the Republic must remain an indispensable foundation for all our citizens, including in the schools concerned. The wording of section 1 adopted by the Senate seemed to me to be balanced. I will therefore vote in favour of the Government's amendment to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u131	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u132	To discuss the legal regime applicable to out-of-contract institutions requires that a simple but fundamental principle be recalled: the freedom of parents to choose the method of instruction for their children. It would therefore be to ignore the subject, or even to commit a moral fault, to treat these schools as enemy structures and as a suspect principle, or even to understand them only in a comprehensive manner, without taking into account the diversity of the educational structures concerned. Private non-contracted education must be regarded as a useful complement to the public service of education and private education under contract. Above all, in this area, as in many others, one must look at the realities in the face: while the conditions relating to nationality and the diplomas provided for in Article 1 are, of course, interesting, only certain institutions, which are very specific, are problematic. Curved teachers and students, learning the Qur'an and Islamic education replacing science, history and geography: this is the dramatic reality in many of these institutions. So, yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to strengthen monitoring and, possibly, to close down institutions that flout our fundamental principles, such as equality between men and women. However, let us be careful not to make the whole of education out of contract suspicious: the many secular or Christian schools, which fully respect our principles, must in no case be stigmatized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u133	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u134	I am, like a large part of us, committed to freedom of education, which is a principle of constitutional value just as much as one of the foundations of our rule of law. However, I see no objection to improving the supervision of non-contracted educational institutions. This is one of the objectives of this bill, whose single window is an important element. I welcome the maintenance of a declarative system that does not call into question freedom of education. It is necessary to avoid moving from non-contracted education to the rolling mill of the current context. I want to stress pedagogy: it sometimes develops in some institutions in a very interesting way and also responds – because it coincides with the needs of their children – to the expectations of some parents. I have, of course, a deep respect for public education, but one can wonder about the shortcomings that are sometimes found there, in particular the fact that the singularity of pupils is not always well taken into account. It is these needs that I would like to put forward this evening, in a rather consensual debate but which must allow us, beyond the precise answer given by the vote on the bill, to open the door a little and to question us, more generally, about the French education system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u136	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u137	I understand that the public school has shortcomings. So what are we waiting for to give the means to our beautiful public school?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u138	It's not just a question of means: the approaches are different!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u139	What are we waiting for to place public and private schools on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u140	There are complementarities between the two that must be played.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u141	In my constituency, some classes will close. I went to meet the parents concerned: some of them – because they can afford it – have already enrolled their children in private school and paid a deposit on tuition fees, not by choice of the education it provides, but to ensure that their child will be accommodated in a small class. So let us not oppose the private and the public: some parents choose the first by choice, and others because they are told that the public school has shortcomings. There is no question of being able to bear such words: our public school has the right – it deserves it – to sufficient means to educate our children in the same way. This is called equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u142	Freedom and complementarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u143	We come to the amendments to the article. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u144	This first amendment deals with one of the key points of the debate: it proposes that the opening of a school should not be subject to a declaration scheme – with an agreement and an ex post check – but to an authorisation scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u145	You're reversing the process!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u146	I'm frankly very surprised that a school can open so easily. As I said in committee, it is more difficult to set up a veranda than to open a school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u147	[[Smile]] It smells like it's been through!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u148	This is why the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship provides for the establishment of an authorisation system. I already hear the arguments that will be opposed to me, but if the Constitutional Council has rebutted this provision, it is for reasons of form, not substance. According to him, it was up to the legislator – that is to say, ourselves – to clarify more clearly the purposes of the measures which could be taken by order, in view of the possible infringement of the freedom of education. In addition, the exercise of this right must respect equal access to education and these two principles must be reconciled. Moreover, the authorisation regime does not in any way affect the same freedom: it simply allows it to be exercised under the control of the republican state, which you ask us to trust constantly. That is what we will do here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u150	As you said, dear colleague, this is an important subject. It is so that it runs counter to the logic of the bill. The current reporting regime cannot be replaced by an authorisation regime: the committee is therefore obviously against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u151	Great wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u153	There are two main reasons to oppose this amendment. First, as I have already had the opportunity to say, we are, with this bill, in a balance logic. Even if it is not possible for us to prejudge what the Constitutional Council would say – you were right to stress that, Madam Member – we would still have a whole series of problems with an authorisation system. In fact, I am somewhat surprised to see how alignment with the concordat system seems to be a model for some parliamentarians, both in the Senate and in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u154	They want to generalize it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u155	In any event, we have achieved a balanced system, which you seem to admit is in the right direction, even if it does not go far enough in your eyes. Let us, however, give ourselves time to see this law applied: we will see whether or not it allows us to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. Do not take the risk of unconstitutionality or of a possible infringement of the freedom of education. The second reason for opposing this amendment is that, as it stands, only the Rector could oppose the opening of a private educational institution. It is regrettable not to mention the three other authorities concerned, whose intervention seems to us to be a guarantee of efficiency. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u156	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u157	As far as the agreement is concerned, if we wish to repeal it, we want to retain the most positive aspects, of which this authorisation system is part. We take what's best! I do not understand what leads you to conclude that the proposed licensing regime would affect the freedom of education. I have not heard any argument in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Moreover, and I stress on this point, with regard to freedom of education, there is equal access for all to education, a principle whose respect could be guaranteed by the State in the person of the Rector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u158	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u159	The purpose of this amendment is to revert to the drafting of the bill in its version adopted by the Senate by deleting the provisions inserted following the adoption, in committee, of the amendment by Mrs Brigitte Kuster to extend the prohibition regime to individuals on the wanted list. Amendment No 1, which Mrs Kuster will present here in a moment's time, is intended to limit the ban only to persons listed as S, while another amendment is intended to prohibit this category of persons from exercising any function in an out-of-contract establishment. A total of nine amendments have been tabled on this bill to prohibit a person listed as "S" or a person already targeted by the courts for acts of terrorism or violence against minors, especially sexual violence, from working in a school. I am responding here in general to all of these amendments, because they reflect a legitimate fear that we all obviously share. Ladies and gentlemen, I make it clear to you that they are actually satisfied with the bill that we are considering today. They are particularly so through the creation of a one-stop shop, which brings together – I stress again on this point – four administrative authorities: the mayor, the prefect, the academic authority and the public prosecutor. They are also so because the bill modernises and expands the grounds for opposition to the opening of an establishment. The old grounds for opposition have become obsolete – including hygiene and good morals. We will now have the grounds for public order and the protection of young people. Of course, these reasons will make it possible to oppose an institution being run by a person suspected of radicalism. I would like to point out in passing that we have been able to de-list teachers on this ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u160	I don't know if it's reassuring...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u161	Finally, the objectives of the amendment are satisfied by the possibility of opposing a priori the opening of an out-of-contract establishment, i.e. even before it opens. With this legislation, the administrative authorities will have strong grounds for opposition, including the protection of young people and public order. I would like to stress this last concept. According to constant administrative jurisprudence, it covers the traditional triptych of safety/health/public tranquillity, to which the jurisprudence has added, more recently, the principle of respect for the dignity of the human person. Security refers to the protection of people and property from the various disturbances that may affect them. Violent or deviating behaviour by the person who intends to run an institution, which would be revealed by a file view, could certainly justify opposition to the establishment's opening. That is another commitment I am making with respect to law enforcement. The reason for opposition to public order may seem vague, but it is actually powerful and broad. Today, administrations cannot rely on this reason to close an establishment or prevent it from opening; But it is obvious that hygiene or good morals are not enough. Public order and the protection of young people will enable them to do so. This legislation will thus give a real legal weapon to the competent administrations. In concrete terms, there will be a check on those wishing to run an institution. A person wishing to open an institution will file a file with the one-stop shop, the academic authority responsible for transmitting it to the other three administrations. These four administrations will have a period of three months to oppose the opening of the establishment. During these three months, the administrations will be able to carry out the following checks: the public prosecutor will be able to consult the register of persons sought; the public prosecutor, academic services and prefectural services will be able to consult directly the automated judicial file of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences; academic services and prefectural services may obtain the issue of Bulletin No. 2 of a person's criminal record with a view to the opening of a private school, in accordance with Article 776 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The judicial authority, of course, also has access to criminal record information. If, in the course of such research, criminal history or administrative decisions which led to the inclusion of such persons in the register of persons sought are contrary to public order or to the protection of young people, the four administrative authorities may object to the opening of an institution. This is, of course, the direction I will give to the rectors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I prefer efficiency rather than appearance. We cannot reassure ourselves with mere words added to the law – and which, moreover, would put us at legal risk. Concrete facts are better than appearances. That is why this legal tool will be useful to us in combating radicalisation phenomena as they materialise through the creation of out-of-contract schools. That is why I am defending this amendment, which goes back to the amendment which was adopted in committee; I think that is what will be effective in achieving the objective we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u163	This is a subject that we were dealing with last week in committee – legitimately, by the way. This is a question that could legitimately be asked; As we all shared the desire to ensure the protection of young people, it was necessary to check that the concept of public order allowed this to be done. We have an editorial that goes in the right direction. The search of the wanted list would open a field that would be far too wide. Furthermore, the Minister's explanations support the committee's favourable opinion on the amendment. It is preferable to return to the drafting of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u164	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u165	We need to trust our administrations: they will be able to rely on the grounds of public order to carry out all investigations into the presence of project bearers or school principals in one of these files, thus preventing persons suspected of radicalisation or of having participated in terrorist actions or persons targeted for acts of violence against minors from opening non-contractual establishments. In addition, on February 23, the Prime Minister convened an inter-ministerial committee to present the new national plan for the prevention of radicalization. The plan aims, among other things, to strengthen prevention in schools, especially in out-of-contract schools and for children attending school at home, as well as to strengthen relations and communication between the various services. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Building on all these elements, we are reassured about the guarantees both legal and the synergy of the different administrations. The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u166	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u167	Mr Minister, dear colleague, there is a real disagreement between us. Personally, I have no doubt that the administrations will do what they can, and in the best of ways, to ensure that people enrolled in such files cannot run out-of-contract schools or teach in them. Nevertheless, the big difference between you and us is that you say that the administration "can" prevent a person named S or convicted of paedophilia from being part of such an institution. She can do it – but she doesn't have to. We, what we are saying, is that we must not take such a risk. One should not even argue: someone who is registered in one of these files or who has been convicted must not be part of such a school. We don't have to take any chances. However, you take a risk, since paragraph 5 states that the competent authority of the State in the field of education, the mayor, the representative of the State in the department and the prosecutor of the Republic "may" object to the opening of the institution in accordance with the principle of public order. They are therefore not obliged to do so. I will tell you an anecdote, minister: after the November 13 attacks, there were numerous arrests of S-listed people in several French cities. A police commissioner told me that we went to get one of them, but she wasn't home. The police saw on this occasion that this person and his wife, both listed "S", were working at an airport! I spoke to the Minister of the Interior immediately. Well, we found out that seventy "S" people were working at airports. Seventy! This means that if control exists, it is perfectable; mistakes can be made. Therefore, these convicted or suspected persons must be included in the list of prohibited persons in a school. The administration would have no choice: it would be obliged to refuse the declaration and the opening. I understand that we need to trust the administrations, but now you're taking a major risk. Should we take it? We believe that we should not take any risk with the children of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u168	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u169	I listened to what you said, minister, and I want you to reassure us. Indeed, you explained what administrations could do, what files they could access. For my part, I would have preferred it to be an obligation. I think, like Mr Pupponi, that when such a school is opened, we have to look at these files. On the other hand, I wish there was no confusion. It didn't seem to me that you mentioned the S file – but maybe I wasn't paying enough attention. It seemed to me that you were quoting files that relate to incriminations, that is to say, persons who have committed an offence, and thus fall within a special status in the criminal courts. However, the S file, by definition, does not include persons who have committed an offence; It concerns State security. I would therefore like to be certain that under what you call public order, one of the four administrations – I think it is the prefect – will have the right to access a file that lists not those who have committed an offence, but those whose dangerousness is proven. Could we think about downstream regulation and ensure that it is an obligation, so that the declaration is made with the best possible control?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u170	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u171	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor to speak on an amendment which the Government tabled following the adoption in committee of an amendment which I had tabled. The latter amendment, which was said, had fed into a debate and was adopted against the rapporteur's opinion. Since not everyone attended the committee meeting, I would like to recall how things went. Minister, you have tried to reassure us by giving us details that we did not get in committee, but the terms you have used cannot reassure us. You say that you are "guarantor", but a minister can only be "guarantor" for the time he is a minister, and Julien Aubert has just stressed the need to clarify your remarks concerning the different jurisdictions. Your amendment tends to remove the reference to people on the wanted file. During the examination in committee, the rapporteur had given an unfavorable opinion on my amendment, which was intended to prevent an individual on the wanted list from taking up the duties of school principal. The same was true for teachers – but this was the subject of another amendment. The unfavorable opinion had been given for two reasons. The first was that extending the scheme to all wanted persons would go beyond the intended objective, which is a specific prohibition concerning radicalised persons or persons threatening the security of the State. On the other hand, it was explained to me that the text contained sufficient guarantees that such a situation could not occur. You can see that's not the case. As regards the first reason, I have taken note of the rapporteur's remark. I therefore propose to amend the text, limiting the ban to individuals in the alert processing file for the prevention of terrorist radicalisation – the FSPRT – or in the file for breach of state security. With respect to the second point, you feel that the Senate text in practice prohibits a person listed in the FSPRT or "S" from taking up the duties of director. What do you rely on to say it? Article 1 provides: "The competent authority of the State in the field of education, the mayor, the representative of the State in the department and the public prosecutor may object to the opening of the institution [...] in the interests of public order or the protection of children and young people". How can this interest be precisely defined? For example, how could the mayor judge when he does not have access to the files in question? Despite the commitment you have just made, minister, how can you be sure that all the checks will be done? Moreover, the courts concerned are, to say the least, overburdened! In this respect, no one can ever blame us for saying things as accurately as possible. That was the purpose of my amendments, which you refuse to accept as they become even more meaningful today. In the area of security, we must be vigilant at all levels, particularly with regard to individuals related to children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u172	On Amendment No 77, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u173	Mr Minister, this is not an obstacle to the principle of freedom of education, it is a search for a mechanism that guarantees us that there will be no legal vacuum if someone is tempted to set up a school that could challenge the republican ideal that brings us together. It is therefore necessary to clarify that the administrative authorities concerned "must" object to the opening of such an establishment, not that they "can" do so. It is only a verb, but it is fundamental. Our colleague Kuster was right to recall that you will not be a minister forever. We need a legal arsenal that protects us for the time of war that opposes the movements that have been mentioned. We therefore need to use this verb: "duty".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u174	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u175	I mean two things. The first is that the S card does not assess the danger of the person. The argument put forward on this point, therefore, does not seem to me to be admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u176	What does it mean to be listed S, then? You don't trust these cards?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u177	That is not what I say, Mr Habib: I only recall the reason for listing on these cards; and the individuals concerned are not for a reason of danger, it is a fact. On the other hand, the proposed law, in the version proposed by the Government, makes it possible to oppose the opening of any type of school in general, on grounds of public order. I do not understand how we can have any mistrust of this argument, which seems to me far superior to the one based on the S sheets. The possibility of prohibiting the opening of any type of establishment on any grounds of public policy largely responds to the concerns raised here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u178	The text says: "in the interest of public order"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u179	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u180	The MODEM Group had voted for Mrs Kuster's amendment in committee; But we were fully reassured by the clarification of the scope of the grounds for public order and the protection of young people. You have also spoken, minister, of instructions given to the rectors, which must be trusted. We will therefore vote for the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u181	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u182	I want to respond briefly to the various speakers. The debate we have on this amendment is not of a political nature, but of a legal nature. In other words, we are all aiming for the same objective, and I think it is important to recall that very clearly. No one here, of course, wants a radicalized person to run a newly created school: it is clear, clear and precise. If there is no difference between us on this point, there is, I said, a legal debate, which refers to many others that we may have had on the S entries. The S form does not constitute a legal basis: it is not the result of a court decision. If I fully share the spirit of the amendment you tabled, Mrs Kuster, it would expose the bill to the risk of unconstitutionality. We can never prejudge the decisions of the Constitutional Council, of course, but on a point like this, censorship of unconstitutionality would be to be feared. The public policy motive, on the other hand, allows us to intervene. I will do so, moreover, by means of a circular addressed to the rectors. Any suspicion of informed radicalisation, especially from the prosecutor – who has access to the S cards – will allow us to act in this direction. Earlier, I indicated that some national education personnel identified as radicalized may have been removed recently: this should largely reassure you of my total determination to combat this phenomenon, even when it is legally more difficult than in the case we are talking about here. What we are talking about, in fact, is simply the implementation, by the rectors – and by the other authorities, moreover – of this text, which will allow them, if voted, to oppose the fact that a person who does not have sufficient guarantees in terms of public order runs a school. It is therefore the imperative of legal efficiency that must lead us to accept this amendment, which in fact takes part in the same spirit as that of Mr Kuster.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u183	I put to the vote Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u184	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-28-O1171.u185	Next sitting, today, at 9:30 a.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, aimed at simplifying and better regulating the regime for the opening and monitoring of private non-contracted establishments. The meeting is adjourned.
