ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u2	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to put her question, No 471, on sports technical advisers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u3	Madam Minister of Sport, my question concerns the situation of the sports technical advisors, CTS. [[Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff applauds]] But first of all, I would like to congratulate our handballers, European champions for the first time after winning the world title a year ago. I know that all French people are proud of them. Minister, the STCs are public service officers responsible for ensuring access to sport for all, detecting talent for high-performance sport, developing the elite of our athletes and training the executives of sports federations. Also, their mentoring mission is essential for the sport practice of all French people – recognized today by all scientists as beneficial to health and well-being. Nor should we forget the role of sport in building the social bond or learning rules and discipline: in short, in citizenship education. The function of STCs beyond the mere supervision of high-performance athletes, the French community and sport sector needs to preserve them from downsizing. While Paris will host the Olympic Games in 2024 and will be the space of a parenthesis, the world sports capital, we must be at the rendezvous by reacting to the concerns of French sports players. That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to know how the Government intends to respond to the fears of job abolition expressed by professionals in the sector and what solutions it intends to bring to this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u4	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u5	Mrs Petel, the French sports model was organised around the presence of state executives, representatives of the realities and various professions: team managers, selectors, coaches and developers of the sports practices and projects of the territories, who are now working with the federations. The Prime Minister's cap letter to my predecessor in the Ministry of Sport, dated July 26, 2018, announces the following trajectory: "As part of the Public Action 2022 process, you will be called upon to apply an employment plan of less 1600 FTEs" – full-time equivalents – "in the period 2018-2022 in order to implement the presidential commitment to reduce by 50,000 the number of public officials on the perimeter of the State and its operators. » However, in order to meet the Olympic and Paralympic Games, compliance with the ceiling letter will have to be reconciled with the need to preserve and enhance the quality of the action of the federations. Similarly, the deployment to the territories of the National Sport Agency's action, which will come into being in March 2019, will require a lot of project engineering to serve the communities, for which I will favour a trans-federal approach. I had the opportunity to stress the importance of the competences of the CTS in the service of French sport, both in terms of the development of practices and of training and of high level. Like all the agents of the Ministry of Sports, they play a role as catalysts for sports projects and accompany daily volunteers – some 3 million – who do sport in France. So, after an interview with the Prime Minister on September 10, I said that none of the 1600 STCs would lose their jobs. In a letter of 15 November addressed to the sports movement, the President of the Republic confirmed "that there had never been a question of abolishing 1,600 technical managerial posts. It is therefore necessary to define a transitional phase, providing for a change in the way in which STCs are managed without depriving themselves of their talent. Thus, as soon as I was appointed, I undertook a broad consultation on this issue. In this context, I have received individually each of the trade union organisations of the Ministry of Sport, as well as all the actors concerned. Today, I'm finishing the listening phase; I will then enter into a consultation that will allow me to draw up paths for the evolution of the mode of management of the CTS, which I will present to you in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u6	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to put her question, No. 477, concerning the GSMC centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u7	My question is addressed to the Minister of Armed Forces and concerns the expected development of the Galileo Security Monitoring Centre, GSMC – Galileo Security Monitoring Centre – located in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. Galileo, the European satellite radionavigation and geolocation system, offers its users – 200 million at the end of 2018 – a precision without comparison with its US, Russian or Chinese competitors. The GSMC, which has been operational 24 hours a day for the past two years, is responsible for ensuring system protection, crisis management and conducting the PRS – Public Regulated Service access control operations. Galileo centralizes highly encrypted transmission channels and orders for government and sensitive applications. However, the military market for PRS could be expanded ten times after an agreement between the European Union and the United States has been signed. Negotiations are under way and should logically conclude on a principle of reciprocity with GPS. Such a perspective requires a coherent dimension of the site's infrastructure. In addition, it would be undeniably interesting for France to host in this centre all the European expertise and means of testing enabling the validation of the modes of use of cryptographic applications produced by the different Member States. I would therefore like to know whether the plans to extend the study are adequate in relation to the new perspectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u9	Mrs Pouzyreff, you are asking us about a subject that is both technical and building. With regard to the validation of cryptographic modules manufactured by our European partners, a European mechanism now requires that the security functions of a module produced by one Member State must be evaluated by another Member State. The qualification and functional evaluation of the safety modules and equipment in the user segment will require testing facilities to be developed by the Galileo programme and acquired by France when available, in order to test its own equipment. In the future, this mechanism may need to be supplemented in order for a functional evaluation to be carried out at European level. With regard to infrastructure, as you have indicated, there are plans to build a new building on Camp des Loges in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The procedure is ongoing and tenders must be received at the beginning of 2019. This new building, which will be delivered in the spring of 2021, is made necessary by the evolution of the technical requirements of the Galileo programme – those of the PRS and those of the safety monitoring mission. This infrastructure programme responds to the need to welcome new equipment and to host an increasing number of operators – not to anticipate an increase in the number of users. Indeed, the size of the GSMC does not depend on the number of users, but on the evolution of Galileo's missions. The ongoing negotiations with the U.S. to define their terms of access to the SRP therefore have no particular impact on the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u10	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to put her question, No. 478, on the Family Plan for the military.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u11	On October 31, 2017, the Minister of the Armed Forces presented a plan to support families and improve the living conditions of military personnel, known as the Family Plan, designed to better reconcile demanding engagement with a successful family life. With 300 million new credits over five years – bringing global funding to 530 million over the period 2018-2022 – this plan will finance new measures that respond in a concrete and visible way to the constraints inherent in military life. The plan's forty-six new provisions are structured around three priorities: better consideration of operational absences, better support for mobility and the anchoring of the garrison at the heart of family and social life. In practical terms, it involves, for example, expanding and simplifying the provision of social benefits, increasing the number of day-care places, deploying a free Wi-Fi Internet network to all military fora – in garrison and operations –, increasing the advance notice period of transfer orders, and increasing moral and psychological support to families before, during and after missions. The Minister has committed to deploy 70% of the actions as early as 2018. The "Defence" mission of the 2019 finance bill, which is the first financial translation of the ambitions of the military programming law, continues to finance the Family Plan by allocating 57 million credits for social action and conversion measures. However, it would appear that some of them face some difficulties and raise questions within the units. There were also doubts as to the size of the measures in the Family Plan. In my department of Var, for example, the difficulties of access to housing and the importance among the military personnel of the rate of single geographicals are critical subjects for which the Family Plan has high expectations. Madam Secretary of State, could you please tell me what action the Ministry has taken to implement the measures of the Family Plan and to ensure, through communication, that the new arrangements are brought to the attention of the staff in all units?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u12	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u13	Mrs Mauborgne, as you said: a year ago, we decided to act for the women and men of the defence under the Family Plan, affecting EUR 530 million over the duration of the programming law to improve the living conditions of our military, our civilians and their families. As we committed ourselves to it, 80% of the actions of this plan have had concrete effects since 2018, especially in your department of Var. In the area of housing, a special effort has been made in Toulon, with the order of 223 housing units, to which must be added 46 housing units ordered by the public institution of the contingency funds. Four hotels are also in the Draguignan defence base and free wifi in garrison is fully available since March 2018. Concrete measures have also been taken for early childhood in order to significantly expand the provision of childcare, which is a real concern for our military. New cradles have been reserved for Toulon as well as La Seyne-sur-Mer, and about 100 conventions with kindergarten assistants have been signed. Since communication is essential in this area, these measures are accompanied by information about the military and its family, at national level – on Intradef, via articles in specialised publications and on social networks – as a local. Examples of direct communication include the Toulon Defence Base newsletter, the recruitment of four reservist spouses and the organization of the "Thursdays of Sainte-Anne" and oral information sessions for families. So, Madam Member, I can assure you that, throughout France and especially in your department, no more staff in the ministry should ignore what the Family Plan is. However, we must continue our action, in all humility: communication is a matter of repetition, and we will continue our efforts, in which I thank you for your participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u14	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u15	You can indeed count, Madam Secretary of State, on the deputies of the Republic on the move, and in particular on the defence commissioners, to take over this Family Plan. I'll add one more question. It seems necessary to adapt certain practices to local particularities: I am thinking in particular of the Franco-German Tiger Brigade where, when a transfer is planned, the military are entitled to German courses, but not their families, who cannot access them for reasons of insurance and adaptation of the premises. The stronger the ministerial doctrine in this area, the more effective local adaptations will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u16	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No 491, on the consequences of drought for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u17	My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, and concerns the follow-up given to the general states of agriculture and food. Unfortunately, they have given the feeling of a great illusion, and finally of a terrible disappointment. Let us recall the commitment of the President of the Republic, who, on 12 October 2017, at the close of the general states, set its own ambition by stating: "The first objective is to allow farmers to live the fair price paid. » Many of us share the ambition of achieving a dignified price: the one that ensures the dignity of every worker, at every stage of the production chain, the renewal of generations and the development of a profession that has always been able to show dignity, despite the many difficulties it has encountered. This worthy prize is the one that recognizes the work and allows to share precisely the value of it. The President's commitment had legitimately given rise to great hope, but also some doubts. A year later, after the adoption of the EGALIM law, we find that the commitment has remained a dead letter. This ambition required setting limits and rules. However, no serious economic regulation has been accepted by the Government. No real possibility of intervention by the public authorities was tolerated, in particular in the event of disagreement in the negotiations between producers and industrialists. To remedy the imbalance of forces in these interprofessional negotiations, therefore, there remains only a vague promise of "responsibility of the various actors", and the institution of a mediator, unfortunately without any power of coercion. The sad reality was that the Government had chosen to leave farmers to their own means in the face of industrialists. You presented last week, in Council of Ministers, the order on raising the threshold of resale at a loss. If you seem to consider this to be a flagship measure of the general states, we are in fact very far from the farmers' income account. Increasing the margins of distributors and very timidly framing promotions will not put an end to the price war. This will in no way make it possible to form agricultural prices on the basis of the reality of production costs, and will therefore not help to raise farmers' incomes. In order to renew the presidential commitment, which we share, you can still act usefully, in particular by prohibiting the purchase of agricultural products at a price below their production costs. Will you be aware of the urgency of taking concrete action in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u18	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u19	I am replying to you, Madam Member, in the place of the Minister of Agriculture, who cannot be present. First of all, I would like to point out that the EGALIM law was passed in early October 2018, less than a year ago, and that the annual trade negotiations between distributors and industrialists began on 1 December and will end on 28 February. The first negotiations under the EGALIM Act are therefore under way. Of course, we want them to be a historic opportunity to strike a balance in the relationship between upstream and downstream of the food chain, thanks to a better distribution of added value. This better distribution is, you said, particularly expected by the agricultural world. It was the subject of the agreement of most of the stakeholders, in the presence of the Prime Minister, at the closing of the General Statements of Food. This agreement must be respected. It aims, through a two-year experiment, to raise the threshold of resale at a loss to 10%, and to regulate promotions. The aim is to restore the value of agricultural products, and above all to pay farmers decently. They are the only profession that is required to sell below its cost price, which is of course intolerable. We will ensure that distributors and industrialists comply with all the new provisions. Controls by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention and the technical monitoring mechanism will be fundamental. We seek to change the behaviour of actors, which is not nothing. The determination of the Government is essential. The minister met last week with the main inter-occupations and recalled the expectations of the Government, in particular the principle of the "giving giving" set out by the President of the Republic in his speech of October 2017 in Rungis. It is also essential that producers accelerate the transformation of their organisation: only a pooling of supply can enable them to weigh in future in trade negotiations. The minister wishes to keep a language of truth at every link in the chain. EGALIM is a bet: the success of Title I, i.e. the effective redistribution of surplus value to producers, is uncertain, and relies for many on the strategies of large distribution and large industrialists. The Government has made this bet in the face of the disarray of a large part of the farmers, who are unable to live by their profession. The new social contract which the President of the Republic calls for must also be a contract between urban and rural, between consumers and producers. We will ensure that the EGALIM bet is a winning bet for all games. This will be a double good news: for the farmers' portfolio and for the health and quality of life of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u20	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u21	Thank the Secretary of State for replacing the Minister of Agriculture. I noted that the negotiations were under way, and that the experiment would take two years; But I also noted that this agreement was not binding. My concern – which is just the echo of those of the profession – is that there is no binding means at present to break out of a situation of disagreement. I am all the more concerned that the number of people involved in the control and repression of fraud has also been reduced. So you understand that the equation seems difficult to solve. But we will probably meet before the end of the experiment to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u22	The next speaker is Mrs Patricia Mirallès, to put her question, No. 475, on eel fishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u23	The European Regulation of 18 September 2007, known as the Eel Regulation, introduces measures to replenish the stock of European eels, in order to encourage the return of broodstocks to their breeding grounds. The French eel management plan, approved by the European Commission on 15 February 2010, sets as a target a 60% reduction in the fishing mortality of eel less than 12 centimetres from 2015. On 23 October last, the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean fixed the fishing period for yellow eel, and decided to close it for three consecutive months from December to February, a period endorsed by the Bureau of the Regional Committee for Marine Fisheries and Livestock – CPMPEM – Occitanie. If an additional ban on eel fishing on our lagoons in southern France were to be decided, while the objectives of the management plan are already achieved, this would inevitably lead to the disappearance of our fishermen, and would affect an economic sector already in great difficulty, especially since the countries of the southern Mediterranean do not apply any similar management plan. So my question is simple: what do you intend to do, and what guarantees can you give to Mediterranean eel fishermen for the years to come? What mechanisms do you intend to promote so that the efforts made by our fishermen can be shared equitably with those located on the other side of the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u24	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u25	Your question, honourable Member, concerns the management of eel fishing in the Mediterranean, which is indeed a matter of concern because of the situation of the eel stock. However, the causes and factors of mortality of eel are multiple, due to its particular life cycle. As regards fishing mortality, the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean adopted in October 2018 a recommendation which provides, inter alia, for the establishment of a period of prohibition of eel fishing for each Member State bordering the Mediterranean for three consecutive months. In France, sea fishing for silver eel is already prohibited in the Mediterranean for five consecutive months. Fishing for yellow eel is prohibited for three non-consecutive months. In order to implement the above-mentioned recommendation, consultations were initiated with professionals. They made it possible to identify in a concerted manner the periods to be used for each of the regions concerned. A draft decree amending the dates for fishing for yellow eel in the Mediterranean is currently being consulted and implemented. In view of the efforts already made in favour of this species by Mediterranean fishermen, particularly since the implementation of the French eel management plan approved in 2010 by the European Commission, the implementation of this recommendation does not require any additional measures to the framework for the eel fishery already existing in the Mediterranean. In short, I believe that everyone must apply the rules correctly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u26	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u27	I've been able to meet a lot of fishermen. Their common interest is to respect the rules of eel fishing, but they tell me that if, in France, the profession is very attentive to it, the other countries would have to be equally attentive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u28	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u29	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u30	Mrs Anne Blanc, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 473, on pre-advertising signs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u31	My question concerns the issue of pre-advertising advertising in rural areas. Following their widespread ban in 2015, with a very commendable intention of reducing visual pollution and reducing the risk of soil pollution, it was decided to introduce a derogation framework which is now too strict, especially for pre-advertising ads outside the city. Indeed, many traders, artisans, places of leisure activities or farmers producing them for direct sale have seen their activity reduced by 25% or even 50%. The perverse effect of this ban is thus a loss of dynamism and tourist attraction for the majority of rural areas, which, thanks to the pre-brands, could attract visiting tourists who did not necessarily plan a stop. As our territories are full of riches to discover, nothing is perceptible when we cross them. Moreover, the application of this prohibition is not the same everywhere and depends on the zeal of the holder of the police prerogatives of advertising, of the deconcentrated services of the State in the department or, if a local advertising regulation has been voted, of the mayor or the president of the intercommunality. For economic dynamism in rural areas, it is essential to extend these derogations to manufacturing or processing activities in accordance with traditional methods and local know-how, cultural activities related to industrial and gastronomic tourism, leisure activities in nature, and cultural sites, apart from those classified as heritage. So, Madam Secretary of State, what options does the Government envisage for a harmonious extension of the derogation regime for pre-advertising advertising in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u33	You interviewed Mr. François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. You raise the question of the derogation from the ban on pre-signs, particularly in rural areas, indicating certain activities useful to people on the move. First of all, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Council invalidated Article 161 of the ELAN Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development, on the reintroduction of these non-agglomeration pre-brands for restaurants, on the grounds that it was a legislative rider. We have heard in parliamentary debates the need for professionals to increase the visibility of small businesses in rural areas. These economic actors, essential to the rural environment, are at the service of the population. They must be able to report themselves, especially to tourists passing through, in order to have a successful economic model. The attractiveness of the territories, however, does not support the profusion of pre-signs at the entrances of the cities. Consequently, their abolition was decided by a provision of the Grenelle Act of 3 August 2009. In return, the Government had at the time proposed that road signs, known as local information signs, could satisfy the needs of traders and artisans, but that direction had hardly been followed. We therefore need to find a balance between these two objectives, which you rightly defend. Before returning to you on this subject, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition will contact the Ministry of the Interior, so that our services will study together and, above all, with the representatives of the professionals the solutions that can improve this signage to increase the visibility and take into account the needs expressed by the professionals, while guaranteeing respect for the landscapes, which are also important for the attractiveness of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u34	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u35	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. In the period we are going through, there is much question of justice and fair treatment of the territories; It is therefore particularly important to take into account the demand I have just made, in order to restore confidence in the less and less dense spaces in their capacity for economic development and attractiveness. I stand at your disposal to work with your ministry and that of the interior on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u36	Mrs Danièle Hérin, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, said that she would like to raise her question, No. 479, concerning the management of rivers and approaches.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u37	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to draw your attention to the adaptation of river management and approaches. On 15 October, the Aude was hit by devastating floods of exceptional magnitude. While, on Sundays, some rivers could be crossed on foot, in the night, the water overflowed in places up to nearly 10 meters to spawn a passage, pulling out trees, forming jams and fading from the surroundings, especially along the Canal du Midi or the Aude. As we rebuild, sustainable development challenges arise in the context of climate change. Adapting the management of rivers and approaches becomes essential to preserve human lives, along with biodiversity. Mapping of at-risk rivers and flood areas is likely to need to be redefined with local authorities and farmers' representatives, including the development of vegetation that can accommodate the bed of a flooded river. The maintenance of rivers no longer seems to be adapted to the specific characteristics of the Mediterranean arc. Local and regional authorities and farmers' representatives would like to see the definition of an environmental charter specific to this territory, offering the possibility of deploying differentiated strategies, for example for the cutting of trees and the curing of rivers, in order to prevent water retention and the destruction of the surroundings in the event of flooding. Sub-departmental agreements could be developed on the basis of exchange of practices and local experiments to guide the clean-up of rivers and approaches, as well as their long-term management. In the context of climate change, how do you envisage adapting river management and approaches in the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u39	The floods of Aude, of exceptional magnitude, remind of the vulnerability of your territory. I went there twice, on 22 October and then on 15 November: I was able, by your side, to see the damage and I know how urgent it is to act for this department. Many tools exist to support the territories in the implementation of a preventive approach, which can only be a long-term approach, directly linked to spatial planning. The 2007 European Flood Directive allowed for a national flood risk assessment and led to the development of management plans for each major watershed and mapping of risk areas. Locally, the implementation of flood prevention can be based on specific action programmes, the PAPIs, carried out by local authorities and accompanied by the State, notably through the Barnier Fund. In the area of governance, the competence for aquatic management and flood prevention has been vested in public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation with own taxation since 1 January 2018. The municipal block can thus reconcile urban planning and flood prevention by better integrating the risk of flooding into regional planning, particularly in urban planning documents, and through the management of protective structures. It can also reconcile urban planning and management of aquatic environments, creating natural flood expansion zones, improving water infiltration and slowing down the flow of water to the areas at stake. Stream curing is not the solution to rainy events that tend to become more and more extreme. Indeed, it may amplify the phenomenon by accelerating the flow of water into the minor bed. The same applies to the diversion of streams, as they are observed to return to their normal bed during large-scale events. The management of shoreline vegetation, such as the prevention of falling trees in the bed or their removal before flood periods, is part of the normal maintenance of a stream to avoid aggravating the impacts of frequent or medium floods. However, there is also a need to recognize its limitations and to relativize their influence on large-scale events. Better flood prevention requires the combination of land-use management and flood reduction measures, which should be based as much as possible on nature-based solutions, such as combating soil artificialization and runoff, improving infiltration, restoring natural flood expansion zones, particularly in agricultural areas, wetlands and stream functionality, and carrying out agricultural farming techniques that do not increase flow or speed. All of these measures, aimed at improving the resilience of communities and their territories, can and should be discussed and evaluated as part of a flood prevention action programme. The feedback mission, launched by the Government following the floods in Aude, will provide input on the maintenance of rivers and allow for local discussions between river unions and agricultural professions, taking into account all local specificities. The State will play its full part in these discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u40	Mrs Danièle Herin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for coming to my department immediately after the event, and then returning shortly thereafter. Would it not be appropriate to devote a study to the Mediterranean arc? In fact, work is being done, particularly within the framework of PAPIs, but does this arc not focus on specific phenomena worth examining?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u42	Mr Guillaume Larrivé, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 481 on transport in the territory of Auxerrois.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u43	There are two major transport infrastructure files for Auxerre, capital of Yonne, on which I would like the Government to speak this morning through you. The first concerns the modernisation of the rail link between Laroche-Migennes and Auxerre. It's a very old case. Since the line is still not electrified, we had managed to include specific credits in the project contract between the State and the region, but your Government and the current regional council of Burgundy-Franche-Comté were withdrawn by an amendment to the contract. I regret it, because I wish this electrification could finally be done. There is also a hydrogen train project to connect Laroche-Migennes and Auxerre, which I would like you to specify the timetable, the amounts invested and the reality. The second case, the southern bypass of Auxerre, is also an Arlesienne of the life of the department of Yonne and its capital. There are about 120 million euros to be found: I would like the local authorities and the Government to stop the lying poker game and to clarify the timing and financing plan for the southern bypass of the city. It seems to me necessary that a real arbitration meeting, chaired by you or by the minister responsible for transport, be held with all the partner communities, to tell the truth about what is being done and what is not, to specify the financial amounts and the timetable for carrying out these two essential projects for Auxerre and the department of Yonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u45	You interviewed Ms. Borne on the railway line between Laroche-Migennes and Auxerre and on the southern bypass of Auxerre. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. As you know, the Infrastructure Guidance Board has examined plans for electrification of railway lines, notably between Paris and Troyes, Laroche-Migennes and Auxerre, Angoulême, Saintes and Royan, and Amiens and Rang-du-Fliers. It considered that, while there was every reason to continue to renew the catenaries of existing electrified networks, the emergence of hydrogen train technology, still at the experimental stage but approaching maturity, led to the question of the desirability of continuing the electrification of the lines. The Council therefore proposed to examine whether the line between Laroche-Migennes and Auxerre would be useful for testing hydrogen engines and considered that State support for the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region's approach to the hydrogen train should be examined. It is in this context that the steering committee of 13 July 2018 validated the reorientation of the project, which is not an abandonment, in the sense of such experimentation. In parallel with the development of the adapted rolling stock, the appropriations entered in the plan contract will enable the conditions for the deployment of the hydrogen solution on this infrastructure to be studied and implemented in due course. Of course, the hydrogen train project will only be carried out if it meets the needs of the territories and a consensus is created on this issue. With regard to the southern bypass of the Auxerrois agglomeration, I once again confirm the will of the State to carry out its implementation. As you mentioned, the cost of the project is estimated at EUR 120 million. At present, EUR 4 million is included in the plan contract between the State and the region, intended to finance land acquisitions and carry out further studies. In any event, the financing plan for the South Auxerre bypass will be discussed when the next contract is drawn up, which will not fail to retain this operation. Realization of this strategy will, however, require a strong mobilization of communities alongside the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u46	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. However, we really need to move forward – that is the case with a transport issue. As far as electrification of railway lines is concerned, I know the argument that you have developed. I note, however, that some projects have advanced in the region – for example between Belfort and Delle – or next door – for example between Troyes and Paris. Unfortunately, the Auxerrois project – still retained in the State-region project contract, thanks to François Patriat and more generally to the mobilization of elected officials – has been abandoned. What reassures me moderately in your answer, Madam Secretary of State – sorry to tell you so directly – is that, in terms of hydrogen trains, we are, if I understand correctly, at a hyper-experimental stage. There is no time frame or certainty about the implementation of the project. That seems very worrying to me for Auxerre. That is why I would like to insist. At the very least, there is a need for a genuine arbitration and scoping meeting at the Ministry of Transport with representatives of the territorial authorities concerned, who are potentially funding such projects, alongside the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u48	The next speaker is Mr Thomas Rudigoz, to put his question, No. 468, concerning the railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u49	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. I associate our colleagues Yves Blein and Jean-Luc Fugit, whose Rhodanian constituencies are also concerned. We would like to know the status of the route of the southern section of the railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration – CFAL – as well as the prospects for its development. This railway project, carried out under the aegis of SNCF Réseau, focuses on freight traffic as well as passenger trains. It is intended to link the Rhône valley to the Lyon-Grenoble line, making it a secondary access route to the cross-border tunnel of the Lyon-Turin line. As part of the presentation of the mobility policy bill, the Minister announced a €2.6 billion investment over ten years to de-saturate major railway lines in France. Furthermore, it confirmed that France is undertaking – although negotiations with the Italian authorities are still under way on the modalities for the construction of the cross-border tunnel of the Lyon-Turin line – to carry out the tunnel access routes, in order to accommodate international freight traffic in good conditions when it is put into service. It seems to me that the construction of the southern section of the CFAL is perfectly in line with the double desire to absorb the saturation of the Lyon railway node and to strengthen the Lyon-Turin link. So my first question is: Will the minister, like her predecessors, favour the northern Heyrieux-Sibelin plain rail zone, which is the subject of strong territorial criticism, or will she consider adopting another route along the TGV line? In addition, the previous government has decided to postpone the choice of route in order to conduct further studies, which has suspended the procedure for declaring the public utility of the CFAL. Given the delay in the publication of the studies and the public debate on the Lyon railway node scheduled for 2019, does the Minister intend to update the timetable for the Lyon railway bypass project, which I would remind you was initially announced by 2030? Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you in advance for your precise answers regarding the route as well as the timetable of this important railway project, for the Lyon agglomeration and for the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u51	Mr Rudigoz, you are calling Mrs Borne's attention to the planned railway bypass of the Lyon agglomeration. She couldn't be here this morning, so she asked me to answer you. The project aims to provide an attractive alternative route for transit freight traffic, estimated at €3.2 billion. The choice of the spindle to accommodate the southern section of the bypass is the result of extensive local consultation, held in 2009 on the basis of a comparative and objective analysis of the various transit solutions. The Heyrieux-Sibelin North Plain Zone has been identified as the most suitable to meet the railway objectives assigned to the project, in terms of transit traffic and service, while allowing for cost control and limitation of the consequences on the territory crossed. On this basis, the mapping studies continued and the results of the local consultation carried out in 2016 led to the confirmation of the choice of this zone. For the time being, there is no new evidence to call him into question. However, the integration of the project into the territories raises concerns among residents. The Government will therefore be particularly vigilant to ensure that delineation studies are able to limit the impact on the territories concerned and to respond to the concerns expressed. With regard to the implementation schedule, Ms Borne asked SNCF Réseau to work towards the commitment, in the first half of 2019, of a public debate on the developments to be considered at the heart of the Lyon railway node, in particular the construction of an underground station in Lyon-Part-Dieu aimed at improving the capacity and regularity of daily transport. A referral file was submitted to the National Public Debate Commission on 21 September. Preparations for the public debate are ongoing with a view to its holding in spring 2019. Its conclusions, expected at the beginning of 2020, will shed light on the planning needs of the Lyon railway node and the main axes converging towards it. It will then be possible to draw up clear prospects for the capacity development of the Lyon railway node, which will make it possible to assess the time frame from which a new bypass infrastructure of the agglomeration will find its relevance. Such an approach is essential in order to build a coherent overall programme, shared with local and regional authorities and financially sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u52	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u53	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will simply add a clarification about the studies: it is important that the Ministry of Transport proceed with their launch as soon as possible, because it has only dragged too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u54	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No. 465, on mobility in the Bordeaux region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u55	While mobility is at the heart of the public debate, I would like to refer to the situation in the Bordeaux metropolis on this subject, which symbolizes the impasse in the Government's transport policy. The walls of trucks pile up on the Bordeaux ring road, the employers shift the hours of hiring so that their employees can finally arrive on time and the air is there every year less and less breathable. Yellow vests didn't make a mistake. It is in the department of Gironde that popular mobilization is most important, rightly. At the moment, to enter the Bordeaux metropolis or get out of it, the only solution is the all-car! Yet you strengthen this one, Madam Secretary of State. You condemn most of our fellow citizens from peripheral areas to social and spatial immobility. At the same time, you maintain the kerosene tax exemption. Yet it's rarely on a plane that people will work! How can we dare to demand from our fellow citizens that they stop using their car even though the state and the metropolis of Bordeaux are investing 270 million euros in order to widen the highway, without building an alternative road? How can we dare to brag about daily transport and the ecological transition after displacing SNCF, while the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region is currently preparing to open up to competition from TERs and close five regional lines? The consequences of this liberal vision of transport, we know them: abolition of posts, decrease in the quality of service rendered to users and replacement of small daily lines by Macron buses – a vision decidedly very COP 21! The yellow vests ask for the adoption of an emergency plan for mobilitys at the service of a popular ecology, you answer them with anti-poor gauges! Their demands for social and environmental justice are expressed peacefully, but with the determination of despair, which is the product of the policy led by the president of the rich and the contempt that comes from above. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know exactly what the Minister responsible for transportation means by the phrase "promoting daily transportation." Until now, his policy has been blurred; She's now in the fluo, and it's all set to last!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u57	Mr Prud'homme, Mrs Borne cannot be present this morning. She asked me to answer you. On 26 November, she introduced the mobility policy bill, which is the translation of a strong commitment by the President of the Republic, who wants us to reconsider in depth our mobility policy in order to give priority to daily travel. In order to achieve this, we launched National Mobility Assemblies in September 2017, which raised more than 30,000 contributions across the country. The mobility guidance bill, which came directly from it, will allow the deployment of new mobility solutions, especially in sparsely populated areas where the individual car remains the only way to move. Carpooling, car sharing, transport on demand: many examples show that new mobility solutions are answers to rural or peri-urban needs. These solutions are more environmentally friendly and, above all, less expensive than the individual car for the French who live there. Mr Prud'homme, you are referring to the Bordeaux ring road. Its expansion is fully consistent with the Government's policy of cleaner daily mobility. The car, which we want to make cleaner and more shared, will remain an essential travel solution for many journeys. This is why promoting daily transport also means upgrading certain roads. With regard to rail transport, the new railway pact submitted by the Government aims to give it new impetus. The aim is to invest heavily in the existing network in order to restore it, to restore the economic situation and to review the organisation of the SNCF in order to improve its functioning, to open the sector to competition in order to offer travellers new services at the best cost and to create a social framework for employees adapted to the new context. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the priority given to infrastructure programming is to reduce the saturation of railway nodes. Bordeaux is one of the priority cities in this area. The aim is to double the use of TERs around Bordeaux. I would also point out that half of the appropriations provided for in the mobility policy bill will be allocated to the rail sector, in order to reverse, for the sake of daily mobility, the logic of priority to the TGV that has prevailed for thirty years. That is the meaning of this bill, which you and your colleagues will be considering in the near future. The Government is committed to staying with the territorial authorities in order to maintain railway lines with less traffic, as they are essential to the meshing of our territories and their vitality. Finally, I would like to point out that the regions alone are competent to define the provision of TER services. With regard to the New Aquitaine region, SNCF Mobilitys confirmed that no line closures are envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u58	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u59	In this answer, I find Mrs Borne's usual language elements, particularly with regard to investment in infrastructure. We can see the logic behind the new railway pact that is being announced. These new investments, what will they be used for? Reinvesting in order to make up for a backlog of years and to renovate railway lines will have the effect of delivering new rails to the competition of the private sector, which will allow these operators to act without investing. Moreover, investment benefits the motorways, as in Strasbourg or Rouen, where major bypasses are built. Your solutions are all-car solutions, Madam Secretary of State. Carpooling and car sharing that you evoke are solutions of the past. As for the autonomous and intelligent car, which will soon make it possible to drive cars behind each other, you reinvent here what has existed for decades – it's called a train.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u60	Mr Thomas Mesnier, speaking on the Angoulême-Limoges line, raised his question No. 476.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u61	"I cracked, I took the car back. This is how Isabelle, fifty-two-year-old administrative secretary, who took the train every day in Chasseneuil-sur-Bonnieure, in the Charente department, explained to a journalist how she was forced to give up the TER in order to go to work in Angoulême. The Angoulême-Limoges line consists of 118 kilometres of tracks, 11 railway stations and 80000 passengers per year. The ballast dates back to the 1960s, the wooden ties of 1977 and the others, concrete, from 1986 – my year of birth. Despite the replaced 23000 ties and the millions of euros invested in order to prevent whole sections from being limited to 40 km/h, the line was "suspended" – as it is supposed – last March. Like the many shipwrecked of the management of the railway network characterized by years of inaction and investment deficit, this fellow citizen is nevertheless convinced of the interest of the TER. High school students, apprentices, professionals and businesses throughout the line – eager for access to freight transport – are also convinced of this. They expect a lot from this line, which is decisive for many issues: the strengthening of the Angoulême railway node, subject to targets in terms of number of passengers for the maintenance of its LGV service, accompanied by a "retour clause" in 2027; the opening of Limoges, favoured by this cross-sectional line allowing access to the LGV serving Angoulême and the ocean via Royan; Finally, the development and integration of this peripheral, rural France, which expresses its anger as its desire for development. The announcement of the double-tracking of the last section of RN 141, parallel to the Angoulême-Limoges line, is welcomed, but cannot constitute a satisfactory and consistent response to the objectives of the mobility guidance bill. On 12 November, at the request of Mrs Borne, the prefect of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region brought together local actors, without co-inviting her, which I regret. A first costing of the reopening of the line, at EUR 150 million, was mentioned. Three of the EUR 10 million of the State-region plan contract appropriations still available for this line could be used to finance a study establishing precisely the necessary work. I would therefore like to know what steps the Government will take to re-open this axis, which is in line with the logic of the policy followed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u63	As the Minister of Transport cannot be present this morning, she asked me to answer you. I share your assessment of the lack of maintenance and under-investment in existing rail infrastructure for many years, which explains the worrying state of many fine service lines in the territory. The Angoulême-Limoges line is a striking example of this general poor state of the secondary rail network, to which local authorities and, more generally, our fellow citizens are so attached. The investments needed to upgrade these lines amount to several hundred million euros per year over the next ten years. It is for this reason that we wish to adopt a new approach to the question of small lines: it will be a matter of leading, region by region, in the framework of a partnership between the State, the regions and SNCF Network, a work that will allow to identify the different solutions – technical, organisational, financial, contractual – so as to use all the room for manoeuvre available to ensure the safeguarding of this part of the railway network. More specifically, with regard to the Angoulême-Limoges line, EUR 19 million is included in the State-region plan contract signed by New Aquitaine in order to carry out the safeguard work to ensure the continuity of traffic. In 2017, the State and its partners made available the necessary funds to carry out the most urgent work between Limoges and Saint-Victurnien, so as to avoid the introduction of further slowdowns on this part of the line, located in Haute-Vienne. As you recall, despite these investments, the very degraded condition of the Charente part of the track necessitated the interruption of train traffic between Angoulême and Saillat-Chassenon, in March 2018. SNCF Network evaluates the resources needed to carry out work on this section and to sustain the entire line at almost 150 million euros; A counter-expertise was commissioned by the Conseil régional de Nouvelle-Aquitaine. Mr Prefect de Région, as you said, brought together on 12 November the parliamentarians and elected representatives of the local and regional authorities concerned to discuss the various options and prospects for the line. A new meeting will be planned at the end of January 2019 in order to establish a common understanding of the situation and to define an action strategy, based on possible scenarios. The aim is to ensure a link between Angoulême and Limoges that meets the needs of our fellow citizens. In any event, please be assured, Mr. Member, that Mrs. Borne and the Government as a whole will be particularly vigilant in the follow-up to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u64	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u65	Here I will recall Alain's word: "I don't know what it is to want without doing. The aim of the mobility policy bill is to provide all people everywhere with alternative solutions to the car, in order to reduce their individual use and hence the environmental footprint of transport, and to improve daily travel. It is the Government's road map and it is the moral contract with the French. I shall endeavour to ensure that the spirit and the letter are respected, as close as possible to the territories, as close as possible to the Charente.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u66	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor to put her question, No 494, on the testing of hydrogen trains.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u67	On 22 November, our colleague Benoît Simian submitted a report to the Minister responsible for transport on the greening of the railway fleet. This high-quality work makes an important contribution to hydrogen, which I welcome. We are even told about experimentation – often a big word in French! The alliance with the regions – which you have just mentioned – will be essential to the success of these experiments, and the successful implementation of the State-region plan contracts will be crucial for their financing. The Simian report draws up, with the help of the regions, a list of secondary lines which could accommodate a hydrogen line. In the region Centre-Val-de-Loire, of which I am the elected one, it is in particular the line Tours-Loches. That's good news; These so-called secondary lines are not for everyone! Parallel to a saturated road axis, this line is an essential vehicle for mobility between metropolitan and rural areas. Located close to beautiful near-finished hydrogen installations, especially in the municipality of Sorigny, the Tours-Loches line will be an example of the ecological revival of the railway in our departments. In the economic, social and environmental context we know, where ruralness considers that there is a real divide between itself and the urban, between itself and the metropolitan, these prospects deserve our full attention. That is why, together with Pierre Louault, senator of my department, I would like to ask the minister responsible for transport: while, on her own initiative, the Occitanie region has just announced the probable order of three hydrogen trains from Alstom manufacturer, can you inform us about the formal modalities of the applications for this hydrogen train testing? How can local and regional authorities be accompanied? What are the specific objectives of the Government, and do you have a timetable for opening these "green" lines?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u68	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u69	As the Minister of Transport cannot be present this morning, she asked me to answer you. The Government is fully engaged in the ecological transition, with a view to achieving the climate plan's goal of carbon neutrality in 2050. To meet this challenge, it is necessary to change all transport systems; rail transport, although responsible for only 1% of transport-related greenhouse gas emissions, must contribute to this greening, thanks to the evolution of its equipment. From this perspective, Mr Simian's report advocates the use of hydrogen. Taking the consequences of this work, the Government has asked the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – to launch a call for projects. Called H2mobility 2018, it aims to allow the deployment of territorial hydrogen mobility ecosystems, based on the deployment of fleets of heavy vehicles. This commitment is part of the implementation of the hydrogen deployment plan. At the last meeting of the National Council of Industry, the Government recalled the objective of a total decarbonization of rail transport by 2040. To achieve this, it was decided to support Alstom's project to launch a first hydrogen train in France by 2022. The aim is to circulate on this date a mini-flotte, in order to benefit from a return of experience. Be assured, honourable Member, that the services are mobilized to ensure that such an experiment is launched in conjunction with local and regional authorities in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u70	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u71	I am very sensitive to this satisfying message. I take note of the launch of the call for projects by ADEME, which I will share with the local and regional authorities concerned. We must both measure how important it is to seize this opportunity in today's economic, social and environmental circumstances. It is important to prevent rural citizens from feeling left behind, left behind – a feeling that they often have today; and the Government must set an example of a virtuous traffic that will reduce the saturation of accidental roads, and that will also reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. I will remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u72	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to raise her question, No. 464, on the "Charles-de-Gaulle Express" link.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u73	My question is for the Minister of Transport. Since its launch, the direct link project between Paris and the airport of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle named "Charles-de-Gaulle Express" meets, rightly, strong oppositions, among which those of many citizens, of the elected Franciscans, including the mayor of Paris, and even of the transport union Île-de-France mobilités. It is indeed an absurd project in several ways. The absurdity is first and foremost ecological. To set up the CDG Express, new rails will have to be built between Mitry-Mory and the airport; For this reason, we will graze on agricultural land. We are told that the CDG Express will reduce the use of the car for journeys between the capital and the airport by 40 per cent, but it is financed by a forecast of the doubling of air traffic, which is the most polluting. It is therefore a nonsense that will damage local biodiversity and contaminate the air of the Paris region all the more. It is then a social and territorial absurdity. The connection between Paris and Roissy is now provided by the RER B: 30 minutes' journey for just over 10 euros. The CDG Express is exclusively for airport customers, at a cost of 24 euros for 20 minutes. The RER B serves many stations; It is now crowded, so much people need to borrow it. The CDG Express, on the other hand, will not stop at these stations, but it will take RER B tracks, even more saturating the latter. It is therefore a project for the rich, without any economic added value for the territories it crosses. Île-de-France Mobilitys has also requested that the project be stopped until all guarantees concerning the consequences for the RER B have been given. It's obviously a financial nonsense. The cost of the CDG Express has been raised steadily, from 700 million at the beginning to more than 2 billion today. However, it offers no guarantee of financial profitability. The State will lend 1.7 billion euros. Funding for the entire project is based in part on revenue from ticket prices. But who can ensure that airport users and users prefer to take the CDG Express at RER B, much cheaper? It is finally a democratic absurdity. Not all information on the financial package has been made available to the public; the rules of consultation seem not to have been respected. Opinions collected in public surveys in 2016 were largely negative. My question is simple, and relays the question asked for years by the citizens gathered within the collective "No to the CDG Express": do you intend to stick to this great unnecessary project, or finally put an end to the absurdity that the Charles-de-Gaulle Express project represents?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u74	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u75	As I cannot be present, the Minister of Transport has instructed me to reply to you. The CDG Express project is essential for the economic and tourism attractiveness of the Île-de-France region as well as for the development of cleaner modes of transport, as it will promote the modal shift from road to rail. The public utility of the project has been confirmed by the Council of State. In addition, the public pre-licensing investigation was recently completed on 22 November. The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition appointed the proposed operator for the CDG Express a few days ago following a call for tenders. With regard to the schedule of work, Ms Borne will meet with the regional president in the next few days to discuss it. The CDG Express will not be at the expense of the daily transport lines: it is true both for the financing – no grant is paid – and for the work. Mrs Borne will be very vigilant on this point: this work should not have any consequences for the conditions of daily transport, in particular on the RER B. I would also point out that the CDG Express project was developed in coordination with the other transport projects in Île-de-France. For example, €180 million is planned for the improvement of the RER B in the context of the CDG Express file. More generally, the Ile-de-France State-region plan contract provides for investments of €7.6 billion for the period 2015-2020, including €1.4 billion for the State and €1.6 billion for the Société du Grand Paris. In concrete terms, but not exhaustive, these include the master plans for RER and Transilians, the extension of EOLE, the extension of line 11, new trams, new tram trains, high-level buses. Finally, the Grand Paris Express project will complement the existing network – RER, Transilien and Métro – by means of interconnections, thus providing the Francilians with an additional means of transport, mainly by bypass. In the long term, 200 kilometres of lines will be built, i.e. as much as all the lines of the current Paris metro network; the investment will be 35 billion euros. The inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis will be among the first to benefit from it, thanks in particular to the commissioning of line 16, which will go as far as Clichy-Montfermeil on the horizon 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u76	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u77	Madam Secretary of State, you have not responded to some of the points I have raised. As I was wondering about the ecological interest of the project, you talk about its attractiveness. But for who? I hear that your strategy is to attract the City's financiers, and to make Paris a new big economic and financial centre. From this perspective, the Charles-de-Gaulle Express represents a showcase, which will not serve the general interest since – you have not contradicted it – its ecological, social and democratic cost will weigh on the users, who will not be the Francilians and the Franciliennes. This great project in which you are trapped and which all the actors are questioning, I repeat, is useless and has no interest. Its achievement, which will affect the community at several levels, will certainly face many difficulties. I think we will be led to discuss it again in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u78	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 495, concerning the merger of the ports of the Seine axis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u79	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. At the Interministerial Committee on the Sea – CIMER – the Prime Minister spoke of a globalization that takes the form of a maritimization. That is to say, how dynamic and visionary France's maritime policy must be. To meet the challenges of the new maritime alliances, it is a matter of moving forward towards a new economic model and a new national port strategy, while evolving within a European framework. In this respect, I will pay particular attention to France's participation in defining the guidelines for European maritime policy. The declination of this ambition must not forget the questions of taxation. It may be necessary, in due course, to consider whether it is appropriate to create free zones in other French ports. We will also have to pay attention to the service of goods to the hinterland and to the statehood. Fair and healthy competition with the ports of northern Europe requires agreements of occupation, allowing to play on equal terms with Belgian or Dutch ports, which are more flexible and better adapted to competition. The mobility guidance bill, known as the LOM Act, may include provisions to this effect. We will pay particular attention to the fact that the port of Le Havre has the means to meet its European ambitions. The announcements resulting from this CIMER are crucial, especially for the ports of Le Havre, Rouen and Paris, which were already cooperating within the economic interest group – GIE – HAROPA since 2012. It had now become necessary to think about a more integrated way of working. The announcement of the principle of the fusion of the three ports of the Seine axis therefore rejoices me, as it rejoices the harbour actors, who see there the way to carry out a great ambition in terms of economic and commercial development. Following the agreement promised without delay, the single public institution resulting from this merger will be the driving force behind French maritime policy. However, the announced timetable raises some questions because the merger was announced for January 1, 2021, without any understanding of the reasons for such a delay. The economic and social emergency requires shorter deadlines. For greater efficiency, consultations can be carried out within a shorter period of time. The port actors, who were waiting, are ready to meet the prefigurator as soon as possible, in order to contribute to the success of this new structure. Members of staff, representatives of local authorities, private economic actors, all have the same ambition: to make rapid progress this beautiful harbour complex at the service of France. Could the Government therefore confirm to us the timetable that will be adopted?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u80	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u81	Madam Member, you have drawn Mrs Borne's attention to the timetable for the merger of the three ports on the Seine axis. As she could not be present, she asked me to answer you. The rapprochement of the three ports, decided during the interministerial committee of the sea of 2017, has resulted in the mission entrusted to the prefect François Philizot. Following this mission, the Prime Minister announced at the Dunkirk CIMER last November the merger of the harbour establishments on the horizon of 1 January 2021. This two-year horizon corresponds to the time it takes to complete this substantive approach, including various work prior to the establishment of a new establishment. In particular, consideration will be given to determining how the future establishment will operate, both internally, in its organisation, strategy and business agreements, and externally, in its relations with the State, communities or economic partners. These different aspects must be dealt with in successive stages. At the same time, the next two years will be fully useful in preparing and implementing the necessary legislative and regulatory amendments. For example, amendments may be tabled in the context of the discussion of the mobility guidance bill, for the creation of the future establishment, so that it will be fully operational on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u82	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u83	Madam Secretary of State, you confirmed that the merger would be implemented on 1 January 2021. Part of the upstream work has been done, as François Philizot has already carried out his mission for almost a year. To say that two more years are necessary gives rise to some incomprehension, because all the actors consider this project to be absolutely necessary for our territory and for the Seine axis. You are also saying that, in order to move this bill forward, we will be able to table amendments to the mobility guidance bill, which we hope to be able to discuss one day in this House. While the joint joint commission working on the Brexit met this morning, in order to authorize the Government to legislate by ordinance, there is an urgent need for the three ports of Le Havre, Rouen and Paris – the Île-de-France is equally concerned by the Brexit – to be ready to enter the market that can open for the French economy. The two-year deadline therefore seems to us long. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, you have not answered me about the free zones, but I am confident that I will receive a reply on this point shortly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u84	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, speaking on the Caen-Le Mans-Tours line, raised his question, No. 492.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u85	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister responsible for transport to the crucial need for rail investment in the department of Orne, particularly on the Caen-Le Mans-Tours line. For several weeks, across the country, many French people have expressed concern not only about purchasing power but also about public services. In our rural territories, many services to the population are affected by all kinds of restrictions. With regard to transport, these restrictions can lead to a sense of abandonment. If we want our citizens to use their cars less, we must make a substantial effort to improve the operation and investment of the railway lines, which are said to be secondary, but which are very important to us. In my riding, the Caen-Tours line is dominant, particularly its Alençon - Le Mans section, as it allows residents to take the TGV and connect it to French metropolises and airports. It must be a credible alternative to the use of the car, but for more than 20 years the lack of investment on this section has not reduced travel time. On the contrary, it has increased, which has sometimes discouraged users from taking the train. Furthermore, we can see that there are not enough shuttles between the city of Alençon and the TGV station in Le Mans. That is why I have been advocating for many years for significant investments to be made on this line. I have, moreover, long asked for the electrification of the Alençon - Le Mans route, but I have been opposed to the very important cost of such a measure, which I have taken note of. The electrification of this section alone would cost almost EUR 100 million. With current technological advances, other ways can be explored, including the introduction of hydrogen trains. Turning to the question raised by many local elected officials and user associations, I would like to know what investments will be devoted to the Alençon - Le Mans section in the years to come. [[Mr. Damien Pichereau applauds]] I also hope that an experiment can be undertaken to set up a hydrogen locomotive project on this same route, in order to meet the crucial needs of this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u86	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u87	Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Borne cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The Government shares your view of the lack of maintenance and under-investment in rail infrastructure for many years, which explain the worrying state of many fine service lines in the territory. The Alençon - Le Mans section illustrates this general poor state of the secondary rail network, to which our fellow citizens in the territories are attached. For that reason, the Government wished to adopt a new approach to dealing with small lines. The aim will be to conduct, regionally by region, in the framework of a partnership between the State, the regions and SNCF Réseau, work to identify the various technical, organisational, financial and contractual solutions, aimed at mobilising all possible room for manoeuvre, in order to ensure the safeguarding of this part of the railway network. With regard to the Caen-Le Mans-Tours line, in particular its Alençon - Le Mans section, where Intercity trains and, in the majority, regional express transport trains – TER – run, the State is working with the region to carry out the most urgent regeneration work, as part of a co-financing that reflects the nature of the traffics supported by the line, which attests to its interest both national and local. The corresponding financing will have to be entered in the future contract of the Pays de la Loire, a new pact which will endorse the State's commitments to the Ligérien territories, following the report of the support mission on the mobilitys of the Grand-Ouest. Mr Claude d'Harcourt, Prefect of the Pays de la Loire region, is responsible for proposing a shared vision between the State and the elected representatives of the territories on the project to be incorporated into this pact, linking it with the mobility component of the State-region plan contract in the Pays de la Loire. Beyond this urgent work, which is the first priority, it is important to ensure the continuity of the line, in order to respond to the concerns of our citizens in the long term. It is within the framework of the partnership reflections on the establishment of innovative technical and governance solutions adapted to the specific challenges of each infrastructure that answers will be provided for this line. With regard to hydrogen-fired equipment, as I said to Mrs. Sophie Auconia, the Government is in favour of the mobilization of hydrogen for the railway. He will accompany the territories in experiments. In any case, please be assured, Mr.Le Mans, that the Government will remain very vigilant on the Caen-Alençon - Le Mans file.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u88	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u89	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for your optimistic comments on this line, which I naturally take note of. As you know, the elected representatives of the Pays de la Loire, including my colleague, Damien Pichereau, whom I thank for his applause, as those of Normandy are tenacious. I regret, however, that the minister responsible for transport did not reply to the mail of the group of elected representatives, who, in July 2018, asked her for an appointment and a study. I would like to see a quick answer given because, at the moment, the elected representatives feel abandoned, in particular because their letters do not receive an answer. By this gesture, Madam Secretary of State, you would respond to the general interest of the elected representatives for the whole territory. While remaining vigilant on these points, I look forward to very precise decisions regarding the renovation of the Caen-Tours line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u90	Mr Damien Pichereau, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 474, on areas of rural revitalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u91	Before addressing the issue of rural revitalization zones – ZRR – I join my colleague, Joaquim Pueyo, in talking about the Caen-Le Mans-Tours line, which is vital for our territory. The Rural Revitalization Zone Scheme has been established to compensate for the particular challenges faced by some rural areas in terms of demographic and economic attractiveness. It opens up a right to a set of benefits, including tax and social exemptions, granted to companies which set up or develop their business there. I now wonder whether it would not be appropriate to extend this arrangement to a number of standards or thresholds and staffing levels, which would allow these communities to act alongside them for their social and economic development, as is the case for medical and paramedical professionals who move to the ZRR. For example, in my constituency, Cochet, employing about 50 employees in the municipality of Sougé-le-Ganelon, which wanted to expand, in 2017 applied for a grant for aid for reindustrialization. This aid was refused because the investment amounted to only EUR 1.99 million instead of the 2 million required to qualify for it, whereas this municipality is classified as a rural revitalization area. This decision was a hard blow for our territory. Several schools in my constituency were faced with the closure of a class for the 2018 school year. Thus, the commune of Ruillé-en-Champagne has lost its school, that of Beaumont-sur-Sarthe a class, and the three communes of Sillé-le-Guillaume, Saint-Ouen-de-Mimbé and Gesnes-le-Gandelin have, by and large, managed to maintain their workforce after having been included in the list of communes in which a post might be abolished. However, these five municipalities are in ZRR, which is supposed to mark the fragility of a territory. So would it not be necessary to show a little more flexibility? Does the Government intend to adapt the various thresholds I have just mentioned to the ZRRs in order to improve the attractiveness of rural areas and to prevent the territorial divide from widening the social and economic divide affecting their inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u92	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u93	The classification of municipalities in ZRR was reformed in 2015, which kept the number of municipalities classified at around 14000 throughout the country. The six municipalities you are quoting have benefited from this reform of the classification criteria, since they incorporated the scheme in 2017. However, like any zoning and grading system, threshold effects are de facto induced by the eligibility rules. Nevertheless, and you are right, we also need flexibility and know how to adapt our public policies to the territories. That is why Jacqueline Gourault and I have asked the Office of the Commissioner-General for Territorial Equality, which manages the scheme, to examine, in conjunction with the Directorate-General for Enterprise of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, for all business aid schemes, the relevance of modulation of eligibility thresholds or aid rates, in order to better take into account the diversity of local situations. As you know, the ZRR system ends in 2020. We therefore have a year of reflection before us, a reflection which can be fed in particular by the work of the delegation to local and regional authorities. Indeed, a report recently submitted by your colleagues Anne Blanc and Véronique Louwagie on the effectiveness of ZRRs has highlighted important margins of progress. With regard to your concern about the future of schools in rural areas, you should be aware that at the start of 2018, no first-degree positions were abolished in the Sarthe even though the number of students was declining. The Minister of National Education is at your disposal on this subject which exceeds the competence of my Ministry. More broadly, the Government's policy is aimed at addressing investment needs in rural areas. The State will mobilise nearly 2 billion euros in 2019 for local investment, half of which will be devoted to rural areas, through the provision of equipment in rural areas. This is the purpose of the mission "Relationship with local authorities" of the PLF for 2019 that I presented to you a few weeks ago and that you will be eager to vote again this week.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u94	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u95	Thank you, Minister, and I welcome all the measures envisaged and the consultation. With regard to schools, it was true that no posts had been abolished but, as a result of population movements within the department, some areas were depopulated and lost classes. Some problems in rural areas – illiteracy, lack of support for children –, similar to those experienced in priority education areas, would justify increased support for ZRRs. But we'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u96	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to put his question, No. 466, concerning the abandonment of the priority areas of city policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u97	On 22 November, two young people died murdered in the Canto-Perdrix neighbourhood of Martigues. I have a thought for the families, as well as for the inhabitants of this neighborhood and the whole city. All were bruised by this dramatic event. They want to live well, they want to live together in peace. A year ago, it was the message of young and old people in a grand show on the main square of the neighborhood. But in this priority area of city politics, 38% of the population is under the age of 25; More than a third of the population lives below the poverty line and nearly a quarter of households benefit from social minimums. These figures clearly indicate a concentration of economic and social difficulties. However, it is a neighbourhood that does not want to be caricatured, where solidarity is not a vain word, where the inhabitants of all generations like to come together to exchange, participate in local decision-making bodies, where tenants organize themselves, where we meet for the pleasure of being together in the social centre – the neighbourhood house Jeanne Pistoun – financed largely by the municipality and whose leaders and educators are very engaged. However, as part of the presupposed merger of the department and the metropolis, the town hall is already being asked to draw up an inventory of social centres with the aim, no doubt, of taking over and reviewing the deployment of these centres. The state is failing in its sovereign missions – education, health, safety, justice – and the ELAN law will not encourage renovations that offer a better living environment. In these so-called sensitive or popular neighbourhoods, people do not have the same rights. A few days ago, the inhabitants of Canto-Perdrix learned that they no longer had any real factors. In other words, if mailers are missing, the mail will not be distributed. How can you respond to this problem? In the working-class neighbourhoods – in Port-de-Bouc, in Prépaou, in Canto-Perdrix – it is the state of social emergency and the public service is failing. Some angers are expressed in the street, others remain contained. All neighbourhoods identified as part of city policy must be provided with increased resources, public services and human presence. Giving young people a future must be a priority. The latter have ideas, desires, talent; They should not be prevented, but encouraged. In Canto-Perdrix, I dream of fifteen children per class, of a medical-social team for schools, of permanences of the family allowance fund and social security, of a post office, of a national police station, which is understaffed, and of additional support for social centres. Minister, what measures do you intend to take, and with what means, to restore republican equality and strengthen the human presence in this bruised district of Canto-Perdrix that does not want to be abandoned by the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u98	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u99	On 14 November 2017, in Tourcoing, the President of the Republic called for a national mobilization for priority neighbourhoods. After a long period of consultation, at the end of which was adopted a road map comprising forty government measures, which will be declined by Julien Denormandie, whose absence I ask you to excuse this morning. The inhabitants of the priority neighbourhoods first ask for equal treatment, particularly with regard to public services. With regard to the presence of La Poste, I will take over the office of Julien Denormandie and Philippe Wahl, President and CEO of La Poste, to examine the point that you raised. On security issues, answers are provided: 1300 police and gendarmes positions will be deployed by 2020 in 60 republican reconquest districts. The office of the Minister of the Interior is at your disposal to examine the need for reinforcements you indicate. The right to live in a dignified and pleasant place is reaffirmed through the accelerated revival of urban renewal in 450 neighbourhoods, with €10 billion in public aid, and a long-awaited national strategy for the treatment of degraded condominiums. In these matters, of course, there is no question of acting alone. This is the meaning of the Dijon Pact, signed by the Prime Minister on 16 July, which marks the desire to fully involve the communities. The merger of the department and the metropolis has not yet taken place. The Regional Prefect's mission is to provide the Government with a report to inform it on future choices. The census you refer to is part of this report and does not prejudge any decisions that the Government may take. It is now necessary to ensure the translation of the national mobilization, district by district, and especially in Canto-Perdrix in Martigues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u100	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u101	Thank you for your answer and for what you can do in practice to find a solution to the various problems I have raised. The merger of the department and the metropolis is under consideration, you say. I agree that institutional change is necessary in order to learn from what has not worked, but future reforms must not be dictated by economic and austerity objectives, otherwise their results will be disastrous. I stress the support for social centres, whose capacity to act has been affected by the elimination of assisted jobs – repeated demonstrations have taken place in the department in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u102	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor to put his question, No. 469, concerning the creation of the European Community of Alsace and cross-border cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u103	On 29 October, the Government and the elected representatives of Alsace announced their willingness to create the European community of Alsace by adopting a joint declaration. In convinced Europeans, we can only welcome the will of this frontier territory. Since their joint resolution of 22 January, the National Assembly and the Bundestag have set up a Franco-German working group composed of nine French and nine German deputies. One of the tasks of this working group was to make proposals for the future Franco-German friendship treaty, sometimes called Élysée 2.0. On the issue of cross-border cooperation, the numerous hearings of elected representatives from the territories concerned, civil society actors and Franco-German cooperation organisations convinced him to ask for specific competences and a right of experimentation for existing cross-border communities. Historically, Saar-Lor-Lux, created in 1971, was the first integrated European cross-border community. This entity evolved with the addition of Wallonia a few years later. It is now known as the Grande Région and is a truly integrated European cross-border community bringing together four European countries. For several years, it has had its own legal structure – Task Force Frontaliers – and a university – UniGR. In its Franco-German dimension, the communities concerned are essentially the three Eurodistricts: Strasbourg-Ortenau, PAMINA and SaarMoselle. We have understood that the head of filat mentioned in the birth certificate of the European community of Alsace applies only to the perimeter of the new entity, but we would like to recall, with energy, that the entire Grand East region is a land of neighbourhood. That is why we ask you to reassure us that all neighbourhood areas, including Eurodistricts, will have the same prerogatives as the future European Community of Alsace in cross-border cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u104	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u105	From the outset, the Government's approach to institutional matters was as follows: to support local initiatives, as long as they are in the public interest; do not provoke a big bang of the powers and administrative organisation of the territorial authorities, which have undergone enough changes in recent years, which have traumatized the elected representatives and the rural territories. To accompany local initiatives was therefore to hear and understand Alsace's desire expressed by the Alsatians and their elected representatives. In order to understand the expectations and create the conditions for a peaceful dialogue, the Prime Minister asked the Prefect of the Greater East Region, Jean-Luc Marx, at the end of January, to conduct a consultation on the Alsatian institutional question and to share his proposals, on two conditions: on the one hand, that the Grand East region retain its integrity, and on the other hand, that the great balances of the NOTR law be respected. Jacqueline Gourault was then commissioned to find the solutions of a "sewn hand" for Alsace, which led to the signing of a joint declaration on 29 October. I know that you have been received by the minister and her cabinet on several occasions on this subject. In the field of cross-border cooperation, the European Community of Alsace is entrusted with a leading role in the Alsatian territory alone. This will allow the community to organize collective action, without restricting the capacity of other interested communities; It will be responsible for drawing up an Alsatian scheme of cross-border, non-prescriptive cooperation in association with all the communities and stakeholders concerned; It will be able, in full coherence with the regional strategy, to develop an operational component on mobility structuring projects, for example. The Greater East Regional Council will continue to play a major role in this area, through the cross-border component of the regional economic development, innovation and internationalisation scheme. As such, a cross-border representation of the region by the tandem of the prefect of the region and the president of the regional council – Jean Rottner – will be experienced very soon. This statement therefore does not in any way call into question the points negotiated under the Elysée Treaty – to which I know you are attached, Mr. Above all, it does not amputate other communities, particularly those in Lorraine, with any jurisdiction or mode of action, nor with regard to cross-border matters, nor in any other matter, because the law that you voted for applies, it goes without saying. Eurodistricts remain a very interesting tool for cross-border cooperation. They will be able to continue to operate under ordinary law, as they act by delegation of powers from their member communities. We must continue to apply this method of "sewn hand" in other territories, including, moreover, in the former Lorraine region. This is what I will do next January with the signing of the Ardennes Pact: it is also a question of taking into account a territorial specificity, obviously listening to the expectations of the local elected representatives. These are the clarifications that I could give in answer to your question, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u106	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u107	I thank you, Minister, for this very reassuring statement. As a Member of Parliament who is interested in the Treaty of Elysée and as chairman of the Franco-German working group, I can only assure you at this stage of my support for the support that the Government wishes to provide on the ground with regard to the right to differentiation. We will have to discuss this again when we resume our consideration of the constitutional bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u108	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor to put his question, No. 484, on a real contract for the development of young urban communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u109	My question completely falls within your sphere of competence, Minister responsible for local and regional authorities. The law on public finance programming for the years 2018 to 2022 introduced a contract between the State and the 322 local and regional authorities and public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – whose original budget is more than 60 million euros. After reducing the overall operating allocation, the State limits the increase in operating expenses only to a maximum of 1.2 per cent, including inflation, each year for three years. Moreover, this rate can be lowered in highly technocratic modulations. So far, the Government has taken no realistic steps to include young EPCIs in the scheme: they are treated in the same way as urban communities whose cruise regime is already well established. In so far as only expenditure is concerned, any self-financing or quasi-self-financing action becomes impossible, which may lead the communities and EPCI to refuse, among other things, the carrying of European financing or financing under the city's policy. Another consequence of this scheme is the refusal to analyse certain types of expenditure with a view to excluding them, in particular interest on the debt or participation in mixed unions, the very purpose of which is to produce equipment. From then on, Grand Paris Seine and Oise, an urban community in the creative phase that brings together seventy-three communes very heterogeneous by their size and has 408,000 inhabitants, making it the first urban community in France, saw the rate of evolution of its operating expenses reduced to 1.05 % per year. However, it plays a fundamental role in spatial planning, with the aim of increasing employment and ensuring a quality living environment for all generations living in its member communes. It should not be stopped in this way in its momentum or deprived of its freedom of action. It is clear that the contract contract only has the name, since nothing is negotiable and that this arrangement prohibits the normal exercise of the powers conferred on the affected communities and EPCIs. This raises questions about the possibility of financing and accompanying projects identified as emblematic and strategic. The urban community Grand Paris Seine and Oise thus wonders how to finance the work on mobility to accompany the arrival of Eole, the acquisitions of land to accompany the structural projects, the development of the exit of the A13 in Mantes-la-Jolie, the projects linked to the exit of the A13 in Orgeval or the equipment related to urban renewal. It is therefore necessary to take into account the specificity of young urban communities in the context of a genuinely negotiated contract. In addition, Grand Paris Seine and Oise, which came from the merger of six communities of agglomeration, have broader powers than the sum of the competences of these six EPCIs. It is therefore essential to complete its structuring in order for its organization to be efficient. The limitation of its recruitment capacity will prevent it from exercising certain skills, which, however, can no longer legally fall within the competence of the municipalities. What are you planning, Minister, to solve this pernicious problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u110	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u111	You have raised several points in your question, Mr. Member. First, I defend the method. We had both fought against the previous method, which was to reduce in an authoritarian way the overall operating allocation – DGF – for the entire French territorial authorities, the smallest as well as the largest. Now, the FB is no longer decreasing for smaller communities, including the smallest municipalities in your electoral district, which I know well. The DGF can, of course, decrease if the municipality loses its population, for example, but the overall contribution of the State remains stable. In addition, the Government has chosen to focus on the 322 largest communities, asking them to limit their spending – this is not a decline in FMD. Otherwise, they are called upon to make an effort, as a precaution, for reasons that we can all understand, particularly in relation to the financial situation of our country and the respect that we owe to the taxpayer, particularly the local taxpayer. As far as the method is concerned, we have retained only operating expenditure, not investment expenditure, which is logical. In addition, we did not impose any choices, as communities had the opportunity to contractualize or not. Moreover, the urban community Grand Paris Seine and Oise – GPS&amp;O – which you mentioned, chose not to sign a contract, which clearly shows that there was a form of freedom. Consequently, the prefect fixed the rate by decree. If a contracting approach had been undertaken, negotiations could have taken place, which could have allowed the rate to be adjusted if necessary. Then you asked a specific question about the possibility of reprocessing, that is, basically, about the ability to adapt to different situations, for example that of a young urban community such as GPS&amp;O, which I know well. Yes, reprocessing will be possible, I take this opportunity to say so. We have also begun to do so, for example in favour of the departmental councils which must take care of a large number of unaccompanied minors, as I told Mr Pierre Bédier, chairman of the departmental council of the Yvelines and former Secretary of State. Cala also applies to all communities and CIPEs, whether they have signed a contract or the rate has been fixed by order. Prefects will have to examine, on a case-by-case basis, the specific situations that may lead to reprocessing. In this regard, it will be particularly interesting to study the implications of Eole, which you mentioned in your argument, given the financial room for manoeuvre that GPS&amp;O must provide for this. So we're going to look at situations on a case-by-case basis, and I'm going to be at the personal disposal of GPS O officials for this purpose. While some criteria are sometimes technocratic, the Yvelines' prefect is nothing of a technocrat! In my opinion, it will be my heart to examine what can be done, with all the elected members of GPS&amp;O and with you, Member of Parliament. We could consider, why not, negotiating a contract, since it has not yet taken place. All the points you have mentioned could be part of this negotiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u112	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u113	I take note of these developments. As you can imagine, the rate of 1.05% is a considerable limitation, bearing in mind both the effect of the technological shift in old age and the need for engineering, i.e. the need to recruit employees who can handle investment files. It is important that the young urban community of GPS&amp;O can evolve in a normal way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u114	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize spoke of his question No 489 concerning the partial privatisation of Toulouse-Blagnac airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u115	My question was addressed to Mr Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, but I am pleased that you are the one who is making the answer, Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs. First of all, let me recall some elements of context. In April 2015, the State sold to the Chinese consortium Casil Europe 49.99% of the capital of Toulouse-Blagnac airport. It retained 10.01 per cent, with the remaining 40 per cent owned by local authorities, namely the Occitanie region, the Haute-Garonne departmental council, Toulouse Métropole and the Chambre de commerce et d'industrie de la Haute-Garonne. At the time of the sale, the State entered into a shareholder agreement with the new acquirer, the content of which was never made public. It is this pact that interests me today. Although public authorities hold 50.01 % of the shares, this particular pact allows Casil Europe to exercise operational control of the company. As the Court of Auditors pointed out in a report published last month, privatisation therefore remains untapped and Toulouse-Blagnac airport remains in an ambiguous and unstable situation: it is a company whose capital is predominantly public but whose control lies with the private shareholder, because of the shareholder pact it concluded with the State. The Minister of Economy and Finance had himself indicated that he did not wish the State to exercise the option of selling in Casil Europe of the 10.01 % of the capital of the Toulouse-Blagnac airport which it still holds, knowing that it can exercise the option until 17 April 2019. At a recent hearing, the Court of Auditors opposed the argument of business secrecy to my questions about this shareholder pact. Of which act. I shall therefore confine myself to the following questions. First, what are the characteristics of this shareholders' pact from a legal and term point of view? Second, once the date of April 17, 2019 has passed, will the state be able to sell the last shares it holds to a public, semi-public or private purchaser who would like to buy them back? Finally, what would happen, in this case, to the obligations contained in the shareholders' pact?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u116	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u117	Bruno Le Maire couldn't be here this morning and asked me to answer you, MP. You had already been able to talk to him about this. In 2015, you recalled, the state sold 49.99% of the capital of Toulouse-Blagnac airport to the Chinese consortium Casil Europe. He retained 10.01 % and received a control premium thanks to the conclusion of a shareholder agreement with Casil Europe. This pact, to which your question relates, is indeed covered by business secrecy. In particular, it provides for rules of governance and functioning – which is quite usual –, obligations for consultation on strategic issues and the modalities for a possible transfer of the 10.01 % held by the State. As Bruno Le Maire has already indicated, the State has not exercised its option of selling in Casil Europe, which it could do from 17 April 2018. This option for the benefit of Casil Europe has not been renewed and will not be exercised. As for the appropriateness and modalities of possible changes in State participation, they have not been fully assessed; There is therefore nothing to be done about it. So I am only responding in part to your second question, but we can come back to it in the coming months. I would like to recall that the investments made by the airport since its privatisation are in line with the industrial project which led to the signing of the shareholders' pact; they will amount to 160 million euros over the period 2017 to 2020. The results of the traffic assessment and the financial evaluation are now satisfactory: they indicate a management level "adapted" to "good". In 2017, traffic increased by 14% to 9.2 million passengers, and revenue increased by 18.5% to 142 million euros. The first results of 2018 confirm this dynamic, despite the opening in the summer of 2017 of the high-speed line Tours-Bordeaux. The economic situation is therefore better, and the relationship is balanced. In a few months' time, we will be able to come back to the question of the appropriateness and modalities of possible changes in State participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u118	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u119	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your half-answer, to which I will respond with an additional half-remark: if Toulouse-Blagnac airport is doing well, it is above all thanks to Toulouse and its attractiveness. On the other hand, my question focused on the possible transferability to a future shareholder of the obligations contained in the pact between the State and Casil Europe. In order for an investor to come to meet the representatives of the State and tell them of a project for Toulouse-Blagnac, he must know what he is committed to. Our next conversations will therefore focus on the issue of portability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u120	The floor is open to Mr François-Michel Lambert, to put his question, No. 486 on the strategy "France logistics 2025".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u121	In March 2016, the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, the National Logistics Commission set up by the Minister of the Economy Emmanuel Macron and the Minister of the Environment Ségolène Royal drafted a proposal for a strategy entitled "France Logistics 2025", which was presented to the Council of Ministers in March 2016. This text sets out a framework for a modern economy whose operation is based on the exchange of goods, services and data, within our territory and beyond our borders, because we need efficient and agile logistics. As such, logistics is an essential link in the merchant circuit and a vital organ for the functioning of our society. It is also a determinant of competitiveness, accounting for 10% of national GDP, 200 billion euros in turnover and 1.8 million jobs. France is recognized for the quality of its workforce, its network of infrastructure and equipment and the availability of its land, but it is ranked only 16th in the world of logistics, according to the logistics performance index of the World Bank, far behind its closest neighbours. Our logistical underperformance would cost the national economy 20 to 60 billion euros each year. In order to successfully implement the Paris climate agreement and achieve government transport objectives, the modernization of the supply chain, from producer to consumer, is the important lever. The aim is to reduce the carbon footprint of freight transport activities and their polluting emissions, as well as to promote new economic models such as the circular economy and short supply chains. In a context of strong competition between players and neighbouring countries, France, which still has considerable room for progress, must be supported in this direction. This is the objective of this strategy, which aims to strengthen the logistics of today and to prepare the logistics of tomorrow, adapting it to the changes of the model. The digital revolution and the challenges of sustainable development impact in particular the complex and globalized ecosystem of logistics activity, which will adapt and demonstrate agility. Logistics is also a particularly territorialized activity, with strong employment potential and structuring for the country. With the national strategy "France Logistics 2025", our country has its strategic document, its vision for logistics. This five-pronged strategy sets out a framework for mobilizing all stakeholders over the long term, through an open process. In September 2017, the Government initiated an approach, called "Fret +", to structure the implementation of "France Logistique 2025", but this approach seems to have stopped for more than six months. Mr Secretary of State, can you specify what the next stage of the government will be, as part of the implementation of the "France Logistique 2025" strategy, so that we retain the objective of placing France in the "Top 5" of the countries in terms of logistic performance before 2025, and to generate for the economy an estimated gain, according to the experts, between 20 and 60 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u122	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u123	Mr. Member of Parliament, the Government is committed to keeping the course in improving the performance of logistics activities, in line with the national strategy "France Logistics 2025", of which you have recalled the pillars. This is indeed a major issue in the development of the economy, employment and the territories. Where are we at this stage? Many reflections have been carried out, for example within the framework of the national foundations of mobility, on the thematic strategies in rail, port and river transport, and within the Fret + working group, which brought together members of the transport administration, professional organizations for the transport of goods, start-ups and elected representatives of the National Assembly, in order to lead in particular to the production of a white paper with the Industry Alliance of the future. Necessary legislative adaptations have been prepared in the light of all this work, which is intended to be the subject of further exchanges, in particular in the framework of the parliamentary debate on the mobility guidance law, which will be discussed in the course of 2019. We must remember the importance of logistics for the competitiveness of our industry and our ports. The reindustrialization momentum that is under way will have to take advantage of the economic efficiency of trade. On this point, France still has progress to make. This ambition is carried by the State. It involves strengthening the share of value created or captured on the supply chain circuits, from industrial supply to marketing and distribution. This is why the next step will be for the State to formalise very soon the objectives of a mission that will lead to a plan of operational measures, which will be implemented during the quinquennium, in particular on the basis of the national strategy "France Logistics 2025". The State expects two main benefits from this stage. On the one hand, the aim is to enable the development of good supply chain management practices in the productive sphere, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, the port component of this plan constitutes the national port strategy that the Prime Minister wished to see put in place within six months, as he announced during the recent interministerial committee of the sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u124	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u125	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. We learn that a mission will be launched soon. It's more than time, given the stakes! I would point out that our logistical underperformance creates additional costs in the global private or public economy estimated, according to experts, between 20 and 60 billion euros. These are room for manoeuvre for our economy and businesses, as well as for certain public services in difficulty. I insist that this mission should work as quickly as possible and that it should be genuinely supported by the Minister of the Economy, or even by the Prime Minister, and attached to their administration. Our economic development is at stake. It would be a risk, in my view, to leave this matter to the Ministry of Transport alone, which, if it has expertise, does not cover the entire economic field. Thus, digital technology, for which you are responsible, must strengthen our logistical performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u126	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor to raise Question No 485 by Mr Arnaud Viala, concerning the living conditions of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u127	Mr. Arnaud Viala, who had been detained in the South of Aveyron by a meeting that was crucial for the future of the hospitals in Millau and Sainte-Affrique, would like to give you an opportunity to clarify the Government's position on a matter of concern to a very large number of modest French people, whom life has experienced. EUR 33 billion per year: it is at this level that the Pension Guidance Board estimates the annual payment of survivor's pensions to pensioners who have lost their spouses. According to COR, there are 3.8 million pensioners, 89 per cent of whom are women. In 2015, a single widower received an average of 2205 euros gross pension per month, while a single widow received 1808 euros gross, including a survivor's pension. This inequality mainly affects widows of workers, peasants, artisans and traders. These figures show the importance of the survivor's pension for surviving spouses. Without it, for many modest pensioners, from Aveyron as well as from all the territories of France where the economic fabric has concentrated low-pension occupations, it is guaranteed poverty. The Minister for Action and Public Accounts has often been questioned in this House, but his answers, like those of the High Commissioner for Pension Reform, have never been clear enough to reassure our fellow citizens. The minister replied in turn that in his reform he intended to capitalise, in the form of a division of rights between the two spouses, according to German or British models, that the survivor's pension could simply be abolished, as in the Swedish model, or that the cumulation of survivor's pension and survivor's pension could be capped. The question is simple and calls for a clear answer from the Government: what option will the Government use as part of its reform for reversion pensions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u128	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u129	Madam Member, you have drawn the attention of Gérald Darmanin – who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you in his place – to the future of pensioners. I confirm first of all, which will be a timely response, that, in accordance with the announcements made by the President of the Republic at his address on 10 December, it is planned to review in 2019 the increase in the general social contribution for pensioners whose income does not exceed 2000 euros per month. It is 3.7 million pensioners' homes that will see their CSG rate re-enter at the previous rate of 6.6 per cent instead of 8.3 per cent. This important measure was very much expected by a large part of those you mentioned. You also know that the Social Security Financing Act for 2019 provides for a new smoothing mechanism that will help mitigate the increase in the CSG for households that could, for a few dozen euros, switch to a higher rate. This measure will benefit more than 350,000 households, which will pay a smaller CSG as of 2019. With regard to the revalorisation of retirement pensions, Parliament passed a law on the financing of social security for 2019, an increase of 0.3% in 2019 and 2020. This development is accompanied by a strong choice by the Government in favour of the most modest pensioners, with a sharp increase in the minimum old age over three years to €903 in 2020, an increase of €100 compared to 2017. This strong solidarity measure will benefit the 550,000 pensioners already receiving the minimum old age, and should help to increase the pension by an additional 46000 elderly people. Beyond the strict scope of retirement and the minimum old age, pensioners benefit from a set of other provisions that will support their purchasing power: phasing out the housing tax, the personal services tax credit, the "100% health" reform concerning the reimbursement of dental prostheses, optics and hearing aids, and the introduction of supplementary contributory health insurance. The standard of living of pensioners and the sustainability of the social model will, of course, be at the heart of the Government's efforts to reshape the overall architecture of our pension system to make it fairer and more readable for insured persons. The other work undertaken and the consultation with the social partners will allow us to examine the most appropriate arrangements to guarantee the standard of living of pensioners. The debate that has recently opened requires us to be even more engaged in the future. On some questions, which I will not answer this morning, you will receive an answer in the coming weeks or days. However, I wanted to draw this complete overview of the situation of pensioners in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u130	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u131	Mr Secretary of State, you reminded me of the decisions of the President of the Republic on the CSG. I would remind you, too, that they take up a request made by the opposition for months. We can only rejoice at a turnaround that will satisfy pensioners. You also mentioned measures that affect the purchasing power of pensioners. However, you have acknowledged it yourself: the question that I asked you is still pending. I'm not telling you that pensioners are worried. Many of them are fragile people, still waiting. I have noted that the subject will soon be discussed. I stress the issue of reversion pensions, which is a real concern for pensioners, especially the older ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u132	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor to put her question, No. 482, on the strength of the national police in Toulon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u133	My question was to the Minister of the Interior. In Toulon, the neighbourhoods of Sainte-Musse and La Beaucaire have for some time been experiencing a particularly disturbing explosion of violence and trafficking. Night shots, and now daytime, cause injuries and deaths. The city of Toulon has made – and continues to make – a very important effort, both for the strength of the municipal police and for the development of video surveillance; But nothing replaces the means and missions of the national police. However, although it is very involved in regular actions, it is not enough to reassure the inhabitants of the city of Toulouse, who express their concern and cry out their anger, nor to restore republican order for a long time. And because: the city centre, even if it is transformed, thanks in particular to an operation of the National Agency for Urban Renewal, ANRU, is experiencing significant traffic. New neighbourhoods are being gangred by crime, creating a permanent climate of insecurity and violence. There have been eight deaths since the beginning of the year on the Toulouse area. We see the arrival of organized bands coming from Marseille and Nice, which move from one metropolis to another without difficulty to establish their criminal trade. The police force in these two cities has been strengthened, while the Togolese capacity has been steadily decreasing, slowly but surely. Don't tell me that summer ad hoc reinforcements are a response to the activity of traffickers, which takes place throughout the year. The incessant demands of the mayor of Toulon to successive ministers of the interior have remained ineffective; If promises have been made, they have not been kept. What human resources will be deployed in the coming months to ensure the safety of the inhabitants of the area of Toulouse and, above all, to combat the ever-increasing trafficking, crime and violence in the long term?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u134	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u135	Madam Member, the fight against drug trafficking is a major challenge in strengthening the daily security of our fellow citizens, and the Government is fully aware of this. In the city of Toulouse, as you have just pointed out, since 2017, there has been an upsurge in violence, with the use of firearms directly linked to drug trafficking, which is developing and raising a legitimate concern among the population. To deal with it, the police system has been adapted and strengthened. The Public Security District of La Seyne-sur-Mer has 136 officers, and Toulon has 691 personnel, plus 24 territorial intelligence officers. It is also important that we review our ways of doing things. In this regard, the daily security police will play a major role, by strengthening the police presence on the public road; In addition, relations between municipal police are deepening in the Toulouse metropolitan area. The daily security police also rely on the work carried out by two delegates to cohesion between the police and the population, who have been assigned to certain sensitive areas of Toulon and La Seyne-sur-Mer. Finally, the departmental Directorate of Public Security – DDSP – has anti-drug training officers, one of whom is based in La Seyne-sur-Mer, to carry out awareness-raising activities in schools. In the Toulon police district, 116 traffics were dismantled last year by the DDSP services. As far as the judicial police are concerned, the Toulon branch focuses on drug-related criminal cases. Marseille's regional judicial identity service is systematically dispatched on homicide or attempted homicide cases assigned to the judicial police branch, and reinforcement is also provided to the judicial police branch in Toulon by investigators from the headquarters of the central judicial police department – DIPJ – in Marseille. This mobilization produces results. Toulon's judicial police branch has seized 1.5 million euros of criminal assets since January 2018, compared with 276000 euros in 2017, and four acts of voluntary homicide involving settlement of accounts have been resolved. The fight against narcotics is a struggle of every moment, which will intensify. At the request of the President of the Republic, a plan for the general mobilization of the fight against drug trafficking in sensitive neighbourhoods is being drawn up, and the services of the Ministry of the Interior are actively working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u136	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u137	I am well aware of the work of the Commissioner for Cohesion between the police and the population in Toulon, which is very useful, especially in the area of intelligence; He had been suspended and I worked hard to get him back. That being said, Madam Minister, you are talking to me about the daily security police; It's certainly a good thing – we're not going to make a fine mouth – but if it's likely to reassure the locals, it won't worry the organized gangs, the hard traffickers, which are currently a problem in the neighbourhoods I mentioned. That is why we will be very attentive to the plan you are announcing. However, I insist, Madam Minister, that there is an urgent need: as you have pointed out, since 2017 there has been an unquestionable rise in violence and drug-related crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u138	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor to put his question, No 483, on the borough of Neufchâteau.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u139	My question is addressed to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities and concerns the proposed modification of the boundaries of the district of Neufchâteau. All the elected representatives of the district, the departmental councillors, the regional councillors, the presidents of the communities of communes, the deputy and the senators, are opposed to such a project, the aim of which is to link the entire community of municipalities of Mirecourt Dompaire to the district of Epinal. I echo this unanimous opposition, which is based on both formal and substantive grounds. First of all, the lack of initial information, of prior consultation, is still a bad signal to elected officials. More serious, such a decision would run counter to their opinion, since the Vosges departmental council voted against such a project in two votes, on 21 November 2016 and, much more recently, on 29 June 2018. In the same way, the pole of territorial and rural balance – PETR – in the west of the Vosges, which brings together all the communities of communes in this territory, has also pronounced, by unanimous deliberation, against this possibility. However, this pole of balance is considered to be a partner and an interlocutor: it is the signatory of the rural contracts concluded with the State and of the pact "offensive job growth" with the region. On the bottom, after the big bang of the NOTRE law, this territorial tsunami which has led to many changes for cantons, communities of communes, regions – such as the Grand Est region, which runs from the banks of the Seine to the banks of the Rhine! – the elected aspire to territorial stability – moreover promised by the Government. In addition, most of the amendments resulting from the NOTRE law to which I refer have had the effect of increasing the size of rural territories – cantons, communities of communes and regions. However, this project would lead, in the opposite direction, to reduce the size and population of the district of Neufchâteau, which already has a strong rural character, by causing it to lose 12,000 inhabitants. In the long run, it would weaken him and harm him. I therefore ask the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities to take into account the views of all the elected representatives, whether they are from the right, the left or the centre – for once, they all agree, and this would not cost the state a cent – and to guarantee territorial stability, the "cohesion" of the western Vosgian – to take up the title of your ministry – avoiding, in particular, the dislocation of the district of Neufchâteau.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u140	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u141	On 1 January 2017 the new intercommunal map of the Vosges came into force, which increased the number of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation to own taxation in the department from twenty-seven to eleven. In this context, consideration had been given to the development of the sub-departmental level of the State in order to adapt the boundaries of the boroughs to the new contours of the EPCI, not the other way round. The Prefect of the Vosges therefore consulted in 2016 with the elected representatives of the department, in order to build a coherent project with the ponds of life envisaged and the expectations of the elected representatives of the territories. At the meeting of the steering committee on 12 December 2016, the majority of the elected representatives of the Mirecourt Dompaire sector voted in favour of joining the Borough of Epinal, by fifty-three votes against forty-nine. For this reason, at the time, the proposed redefinition of the boundaries of the territorial borough provided for the linking of the future intercommunality to the borough of Epinal. Moreover, the community of municipalities of Mirecourt Dompaire deliberated as early as 27 February 2017 to join the SCOT – scheme of territorial coherence – of the central Vosges, which was an additional argument in favour of its attachment to the Borough of Epinal. Nevertheless, at the June 29, 2018 sitting, the departmental council voted – many elected representatives abstained – against this project. Consequently, the Prefect of the Vosges received on 6 December 2018 the elected representatives of the borough to inform them that the publication of the decree of the Prefect of the Region redefining the boundaries of the boroughs of the State in the department of Vosges had been suspended. A round of consultation with the elected representatives concerned will be relaunched, the outcome of which should be expected. Finally, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities asks me to point out that whatever decision will be taken, the future of the sub-prefecture of Neufchâteau is not called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u142	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u143	I am well aware of all these arguments, including the vote of this steering committee. This was, moreover, quite extraordinary, since this steering committee concerned an institution which did not yet exist, a future intercommunality. This does not therefore have much regulatory value. I am pleased that the prefect received all the elected representatives on 6 December last year, at my request, and that the publication of the order was suspended. However, I remain vigilant because the French language is precise and I know the difference between a suspension and a cancellation. We will pay attention to the organization of this necessary consultation, to the dialogue, to the information of the elected representatives, which was sorely lacking before.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u144	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 493, concerning the award of scholarships to students from New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u145	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, the general right of access to higher education, recently reaffirmed by the Act of 8 March 2018 on the guidance and success of students, implies that the system of award of scholarships allows any person holding the baccalaureate to benefit from higher education. However, the number of undergraduate students at the University of New Caledonia is still well below the national average: the rate is 27 per cent, compared with a national rate of 38 per cent. This rate is also much lower than that of the rest of the overseas countries: 63 per cent in Réunion, 55 per cent in Martinique, 61 per cent in Guadeloupe, 58 per cent in Guyana and 65 per cent in Mayotte. This difference is due in particular to the inadequacy of the income ceiling to the economic reality of the country. In fact, the resource ceilings for higher education scholarships are fixed by decree for the academic year, on the basis of income and the cost of living in metropolitan France. However, the cost of living overseas, particularly in New Caledonia – as well as in French Polynesia – is significantly higher. According to a 2017 report by the Overseas Emission Institute, the average price difference between New Caledonia and metropolitan France is estimated at 33 per cent – and 39 per cent for French Polynesia in 2015. Another study conducted by INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – on the same subject indicates that the cost of living in New Caledonia is 1.7 times higher than that of the metropolis. In addition, the amount of scholarships awarded to students is also calculated on the basis of the cost of living in metropolitan France, which greatly reduces the effect on the cost-of-living environment to which I have just referred. Minister, the improvement of the student condition must concern all students, whether overseas or Hexagonian, in order to give everyone the same opportunity to succeed. In view of these factors, do you intend to take into account the cost of living in the communities governed by article 74 of the Constitution and in New Caledonia in determining the income threshold for determining the right to higher education scholarships for students whose parents live in those territories and the amount of scholarships awarded to those students?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u146	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u147	Mr President, you would like to draw my attention to the situation of New Caledonian students applying for a higher education grant on the basis of social criteria, in particular in the light of the economic and social specificities of New Caledonia. As you pointed out, the mechanism for awarding scholarships is national. In accordance with the provisions in force, scholarships are awarded in a uniform manner on the basis of a national scale, which takes into account the resources and expenses of the student's family, the distance between the family home and the place of training, and the number of dependent children in the home other than the applicant. For the 2017-2018 academic year, 1571 students received a higher education grant based on social criteria in New Caledonia. A special feature applies to New Caledonian students: they can benefit from the continued payment of the scholarship during the summer holidays, and thus receive twelve monthly payments instead of ten when they meet the criteria for the award of these scholarships and carry out their studies in metropolitan France while at the expense of their parents residing in an overseas department, an overseas community or in New Caledonia. 542 students were able to benefit from this scheme, an increase of almost 15%. The establishment of the student and campus life contribution in New Caledonia will also enhance the level of support and the availability of facilities for these students in the areas of health, well-being and culture. Nevertheless, we are fully aware that the social situation and the level of income from one ultramarine territory to another is not comparable to one of the rates of scholarship, and that the cost of living can be very variable from one territory to another, including within Hexagon. That is why we are continuing our new approach, which allows us to take better account of the diversity of territorial issues, in the continuation of the exchanges that began in public session during the examination of the law on the orientation and success of students. As you know, my ministry has begun to analyse the situation of the ultramarine fellows, particularly in New Caledonia, work that I am, of course, ready to continue with you following the exchanges that you have already had with my services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u148	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u149	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your knowledge of the file. This sensitivity is important, at least as it is felt by students and parents. Indeed, the flagrant injustice shown by the figures I mentioned earlier must be answered or answered. These must be specific to our territories, as you said, but we must certainly also review the scheme as a whole, because its uniformity does not reflect the sometimes insurmountable economic difficulties faced by some parents – whose incomes are taken into account – in an economic environment where the cost is 1.7 times higher. In this respect, comparison is not correct. I am therefore very pleased to know that this question is open to your services, and I thank them for that. Together with my colleague Philippe Gomès, who had also brought this matter before you during the examination of the law, we will be at your disposal to work on it and to find the most suitable solutions for our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u150	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, to put his question, No. 467, on constitutional reform and the status of Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u151	My question is to Mrs. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. In March-April 2017, Guyana was the forerunner of a vast movement that preceded the social dynamics observed over the past few weeks on the territory of France hexagonale. This protest movement was crystallized around claims related to the non-development of our territory. It also culminated in the signing, on 21 April 2017, of an agreement known as the "Agreement of Guyana", one of the strengths of which is the implementation of a process of evolution of the status of Guyana. This question is recurrent because it was asked by all the presidents of the Fifth Republic, from General De Gaulle to the last president, François Hollande. President Emmanuel Macron also mentioned this possibility during his visit to Guyana. It has also been taken over by the entire political class of Guyana, but it has not yet been achieved. However, we are at a turning point in our history because, by virtue of the powers conferred on it by the law of 27 July 2011, the Congress of the elected representatives of Guyana recently decided, in a resolution, to request that the Prime Minister be seized so that the process of popular consultation which must precede the evolution of the status is implemented as soon as possible. However, as happened after the Benalla case, the social movements that shook hexagonal France led to the postponement of the resumption of work on the revision of the Constitution. Madam Minister, the expectation of a government response to the challenges is very strong in Guyana. I would therefore like to know whether, at this stage, you would be able to solemnly tell us what answer can be given to this request from the political class of Guyana, knowing that, as I have always said, the question is not ideological – it is simply a question of common sense, a pragmatic question. We have indeed noted that every time we vote on the laws in this House, the explanatory memorandum deals with questions, characteristics and truths that are closer to the situation prevailing in hexagonal France, but which are at the opposite end of the truths we know on the territory of Guyana. The people of this territory and the political class are therefore entitled to expect a favourable response from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u152	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u153	Mr. Deputy, you are asking the Government about the institutional developments envisaged for Guyana in the context of the constitutional review. As far as the timing of the bill is concerned, the consideration of the bill, as you know, will not resume in January – this point is being taken up, at this very moment, at the Conference of Presidents. This decision follows the desire expressed by the President of the Republic to hold a major debate on the whole of the national territory, which must include democracy and citizenship, because that is what our fellow citizens are asking us to do. The Prime Minister announced it here last Thursday. It is therefore logical to wait for the outcome of this great debate before resuming the review of the constitutional review. As far as Guyana is concerned, the organisation, in 2018, of the general states, closed by the Congress of the Elected on 27 November, has demonstrated the importance of the institutional question for the elected representatives of the territory, as you have just recalled. The State had not been involved in these reflections, but, as the Overseas Minister, Annick Girardin, had already had the opportunity to say, the Government would not oppose the territorial plans, provided that they were carried by the vast majority of parliamentarians, that they had been the subject of broad consultation and that they were fully shared by all Guyanans. That is what the Government will be paying attention to.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u154	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u155	Thank you, Madam Minister. I was very attentive to the answer you gave us. I recognize with you the constraints on the timetable today. However, as you have said and as I would like to point out, our territories have already been the subject of general states on several occasions. We have been, in a way, forerunners of what will soon happen on the territory of France hexagonale. The overseas bases allowed us to reflect on various modalities that could change the economic framework of our territories. It is true that the recurring issue of the institutional framework has not yet been resolved. In any case, I would like to point out that, as I said earlier, we are already engaged in this process. I hope that once we reach the final stage, the Government will hear that we are in a democracy and that, in order to function properly, democracy does not need to rely on a very large majority, as you said in your answer, but simply on a majority. In the past, the Guyanans had already spoken out, and we had been told that the majority that had emerged was not sufficient for the outcome to be taken into account. I would therefore like to say today, in order to note this for the rest of the work that we are going to undertake, that it is enough for the majority of elected representatives to move in one direction to force – I say well – the government to take into consideration the majority decision, even if this majority is not overwhelming or very broad. It is enough for the majority to move things forward. We are therefore waiting for the Prime Minister's answer, while knowing that we can perfectly decorate the work to be carried out on the territory of Guyana with those to be carried out on the territory of hexagonal France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u156	Mr Philippe Latomb, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 487 concerning the fight against international trafficking in organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u157	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health to the need to improve the traceability of organ transplants carried out by our compatriots abroad. With its bioethics law, France promotes the free and free donation of organs, which prohibits both sales and medical transplant tourism. It cannot therefore be accepted that organ transplantation becomes an international trade that feeds on forcibly removed organs, of which the French would be clients. In this case, health insurance becomes, through the follow-up of transplant patients, a payer in the chain of the market for forced organ removals. In 2013 and 2016, the European Parliament condemned the massive practice of forced organ removal in China. About 10 countries have amended or are in the process of amending their bioethics laws and criminal laws to combat such trafficking and deter their citizens from using such transplants. In March 2015, the Council of Europe proposed to all countries of the world the signature and ratification of its convention to combat this trafficking. This Convention entered into force on 1 March 2018. To date, 17 countries have signed it and five have ratified it. France is not one of them. Can you tell us, Madam Minister, whether the signing and ratification of the European Convention is planned in the near future and what is envisaged in the context of the revision of the bioethics law to improve the effectiveness of the fight against organ trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u158	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u159	Mr President, you are right: trafficking in human organs constitutes an infringement of human dignity and the right to life, and also poses a threat to public health. That is why the member states of the Council of Europe drew up this Convention of 25 March 2015 on combating organ trafficking, known as the Santiago de Compostela Convention. The Convention calls on Governments to criminalize the illegal removal of human organs from live and deceased donors and also provides for measures to protect and compensate victims, as well as preventive measures to ensure transparency and equitable access to transplant services. It is therefore an international treaty in criminal matters, which was negotiated by the Ministry of Justice and to which we fully subscribe, since all the principles of the Council of Europe Convention are already enshrined both in French law and in the Oviedo Convention ratified by France in 2011, which reflects our country's commitment to combat organ trafficking. As far as the text you are referring to is concerned, inter-ministerial consultations are under way on its possible signature by France, taking into account the other texts governing trafficking in organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u160	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to put his question, No. 488, on addictive conduct.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u161	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. I was alerted by the local elected representatives of my territory and by the centre of care, accompaniment and prevention in addictology – CSAPA – of Quimperlé of the resurgence of addictological conduct. Strong alcoholization, binge drinking, taking drugs and trivializing their use: the finding is terrible and disturbing. I have received a dedicated and committed CSAPA team at my permanence to work to combat this scourge. These field-loving actors are now making an alarm cry. For several years, in partnership with the urban community of my territory, the gendarmerie and high schools, they have put in place a programme of prevention and action entitled "Drugs at risk with products". They were able to meet close to 1400 high school students and, with them, discuss their festive practices and identify the risks and behaviours to be adopted. They also made them aware of the criminal consequences of such conduct. This action gives us a few observations. First, there are concerns: 60% of young people have already had a black hole in the second, 35% have already smoked cannabis in the second and 55% in the final. Harder drug use is growing and cocaine has sometimes become what they call the "base". In addition to these terrible findings, there are also reasons for satisfaction and hope. First, prevention works and there is an awareness and measurable impact among young people who have had the chance to follow this program. The use of young consumer consultations – CJC – for example, has increased by 200% in two years. In addition, a real territorial network has been established with the actors on the ground. Minister, this action is now under threat due to a lack of funding. I will therefore ask two questions: what actions and concrete measures does the Government envisage to strengthen the network of CSAPAs? Can he imagine a major plan to fight at-risk consumption, which would combat this scourge, which has a huge human and social cost?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u162	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u163	The medico-social system dedicated to the prevention and care of consumers of psychoactive substances includes a network of 420 centres for the care, support and prevention of addictology and 149 centres for the reception and support of risk reduction for drug users; EUR 411 million is allocated for the operation of these addictive structures. Preventing at-risk consumption from an early age, whether tobacco, alcohol or cannabis, is a priority of our prevention policy because, as you have pointed out, prevention works and it is essential. This is why the Prevention Priority Plan, launched in March 2018, contains several measures to strengthen these prevention actions. First of all, it is based on a more health-promoting school and on already deployed mechanisms, such as student ambassadors or the health service for health students, which devotes much of its time to these prevention issues. We know that when young people talk to young people, it often has a greater impact. The second topic is the ability to resist the pressure of the group and the acquisition of relational skills to deal with the conflict. These are protective factors that prevent future risk behaviours, especially in adolescence, when it is sometimes very difficult to resist these group pressures. The overall plan encourages partnership between colleges, high schools and major youth counselling centres. It promotes collective prevention measures, but also better targeting young people in difficulty, as well as their relatives, towards the right structures. In order to support the strengthening of the prevention of addictions in general from an early age, the Government has decided to extend the purpose of the tobacco control fund to all addictions. This plan of struggle will also benefit from the proceeds of the flat-rate fine for the use of narcotics provided for in the bill of programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice. This new fund, which will complement other sources of funding, will strengthen the prevention of addictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u164	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u165	Will the CSAPA networks benefit in practice from this aid and from this 411 million fund? Today, this network works and achieves results: it would be a shame to lose it. On the other hand, I would like to reinvigorate you on the question of a national campaign on at-risk consumption. For a very long time, there has been no major campaign in our country on risky consumption, especially with regard to drugs – it exists for tobacco and alcohol, but very little for drugs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u166	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 490, on access to visual care for the Manceaux and Sarthois.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u167	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the access to visual care of the Manceaux and the Sarthois. Indeed, in France, according to the latest available data, not far from 15% of children aged 4 to 10 would suffer from vision disorders, including myopia. Only about one-third of the elderly who are dependent in institutions would report regularly. An average of about three months is required between the request for a medical appointment by ophthalmologists and the visit. In the Sarthe, the situation is even less good and even worrying: while the density of ophthalmologists and of 8 per 100,000 inhabitants in France, it is 4.5 in the department. Except for emergency and special medical conditions, no new appointments are granted to patients whose doctors have left. They are offered to go outside the department, to Angers, Nantes or Paris, which, beyond distance, constitutes an economic barrier to the visual monitoring of families. Under these conditions, concrete solutions should be found. The priority setting up of new doctors, the delegation of monitoring and surveillance of ophthalmologists to orthoptists and opticians, the conduct of telemedicine consultations with the assistance of another professional or the possibility of allowing opticians to carry out acts in residential institutions for the elderly are all ways of improving access to care nearby. I would therefore like to know the intentions of the Government and the concrete responses that the State has the responsibility to organize. The law of 26 January 2016 states that it is in charge of the care routes which, through the coordination of health, social and medico-social actors, in connection with users and local authorities, ensure the continuity, accessibility, quality, safety and efficiency of the care of users. Minister, what can I simply say to the patients who come to me and say, "I no longer have a specialist doctor and I'm advised to go 200 kilometres?"
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u168	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u169	Visual care has been a major concern for several years. Sarthe is a sensitive territory, which has seen the emergence of many initiatives on the part of health professionals. These were accompanied by the regional health agency; their experiments were then deployed and incorporated into ordinary law. For example, the optical correction protocols authorized in Pays de la Loire from the end of 2013 have now entered the common law and allow for the annual care of more than 4000 Sarthois patients with deadlines of less than one month. But I agree with you on one point: medical demography, particularly in the Sarthe, needs to go much further. The regional health agency of the Pays de la Loire therefore authorised the remote optical correction protocol at the beginning of October. Several deployment sites are under study and will be established in 2019. Other avenues for telemedicine are under consideration; Other protocols have been proposed and are being investigated, some concerning collaborations with opticians. In addition, cooperation contracts and organizational protocols will allow orthoptists to follow stable pathologies. The question of support, particularly financial support, still needs to be clarified. The department of Sarthe has also been designated to experiment with orthoptists' screening of children's visual disorders. Finally, the regional health agency as well as the training and research units continue their efforts to allow the increase in the number of ophthalmologists trained in the Pays de la Loire, and in particular in Angers. Thus, the capacity of the orthopaedic school has been increased by 25% in two years. This subject, as you know, is a matter of great interest to the Government: we are working with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, particularly with regard to places of training, since we know that the place of training is essential if young people in their territory are to be stabilised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u170	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u171	Madam Minister, thank you for your response, which brings operational and concrete elements to the pending problems in the territory. I want to stress in particular the urgency that exists in this department – this is not the case today. The retirement of many practitioners, in different specialties as well as in generalists, really asks us questions. We all have the will, both on the government side and on the part of communities and deputies, to support these arrangements. I hear your answer and hope that we can improve the situation in 2019: we will take stock at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u172	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to her question No. 472, concerning the continuous management of blood glucose sensors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u173	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. People with diabetes on insulin can now, thanks to specific sensors, easily know their blood glucose levels. This enables them to anticipate the stages of hypoglycaemia or hyperglycaemia and to adapt their treatment accordingly. This surveillance is essential for type 1 diabetes. In particular, it is possible to schedule alarms at night when the blood glucose levels are exceeded, preventing many parents from constantly worrying and waking up to monitor their child's blood glucose levels. Unfortunately, the latest sensors are only reimbursed by the health insurance under certain specific conditions. In the opinion of many patients and the parents concerned, these criteria may seem unfair, for at least two reasons. First reason: Type 1 diabetes, at the time of diagnosis, is usually very serious as it presents a risk of complications or poisoning. It is therefore urgent to treat him in order to prevent the person from suffering, without waiting for the six months required by social security. Second reason: the health insurance has set a minimum of 8% of HbA1c, i.e. severe hypoglycaemia, for the management of these sensors, the risk being that some patients will stop treating themselves to reach this threshold allowing reimbursement – I leave you to imagine the potential consequences of this drift on some patients. It should be recalled that today our country has more than 4 million people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, a figure that must challenge us, but above all, make us aware of the urgency of continuing to do prevention – it is indispensable – but also of the accompaniment of those who suffer. It is our responsibility and role to seek to improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens affected by diabetes. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to know the position of the Government and to ask you whether you are in favour of unconditional reimbursement of the blood glucose sensors on a continuous basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u174	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u175	Member, the management of diabetes is graduated and must be adapted to each stage of the pathology. The first step in patient care is often a change in lifestyle – change in diet, promotion of physical activity. Depending on the progression of the pathology and type of diabetes, there are many medications available to treat patients and to follow up on management by a graduated approach: you start with some drugs then, if necessary, and only if necessary, you add others depending on the progression of the disease. The same applies to the medical devices you refer to: they must be part of a graduated care strategy. If they do not replace blood glucose reading by tape, they supplement it for patients for whom tape-based self-monitoring more than four times a day is not sufficient to balance treatment. This is not, therefore, what is known as a first-recourse device, as we must first try what works for the vast majority of patients, namely the monitoring of blood glucose by tape. In addition, these continuous blood glucose monitoring devices are not so easy to use. They require accurate patient training, adherence to treatment that needs to be reassessed and amended periodically. Therefore, this device cannot be offered from the outset to all patients. In addition, the conditions for care have been defined, following the advice of the High Health Authority, which has reviewed all available data to make a recommendation on the proper arrangements for the care of these devices. This opinion of the High Health Authority is the best guarantee that only scientific considerations related to the interests of patients will be taken into account. In order to make progress on this subject, the High Health Authority has requested that a real-life study be conducted to assess in practice the actual contribution of these devices. The Minister of Solidarity and Health will pay particular attention to the fact that the findings of this study are reflected in any changes in care that may be necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u176	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u177	Thank you, minister, for that answer. I will just make a little remark about the graduated approach. In the case of type 1 diabetes, and particularly in the case of children, sensors are a real necessity to ensure that they are able to live and have normal schooling very quickly, avoiding feeling sick. You put forward the argument that this would be difficult because it would require training and a graduated approach; It is important to know that both parents and children do so especially quickly. On the other hand, I am pleased to learn that the High Health Authority has requested this assessment: I hope that the associations of patients will be associated with it, so that the conclusions are in line with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u178	Mr Jean-François Parigi has the floor to put his question, No. 480, concerning the death certificate at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u179	Medical desertification is one of the scourges affecting our rural but also urban territories. It results in a congestion of emergency services and a shortage of doctors. Beyond the health problems our fellow citizens face, this situation causes difficulties in seeing deaths at home. In fact, it is not uncommon for practitioners not to be available to quickly draw up a death certificate, leaving relatives already shocked in a situation of extreme distress. However, the death certificate is an essential document for initiating administrative proceedings following the loss of a relative. You know that, Madam Minister: every year, a quarter of all deaths in France take place at home. So this is not an anecdotal subject. The trauma of families facing the loss of a relative whose body sometimes remains two to four days at home before being cared for is not acceptable. The scarcity of the liberal resource in our territories must not be taken hostage. In addition, this situation affects other public services, including our police officers and gendarmes, who have been mobilized for several hours or even days, pending the intervention of a doctor. In order to combat medical desertification, the Government had announced several measures: the development of telemedicine, the end of the numerus clausus, or the creation of the status of nurse in advanced practice, which would allow nurses to gain autonomy and carry out more acts, with the exception of the death certificate at home. The objective is to reduce the territorial divide in access to care. While some of these initiatives should be welcomed, they will only bear fruit in a few years and do not address the issue of home death certificates. In the face of a shortage of practitioners, there is one way to see a death at home: to delegate this to other health professionals, including nurses, as is the case in Canada. With appropriate training, the Liberal nurses could indeed establish this act. Often, these health care professionals have been following the patient for several years. So what does the Government intend to do to alleviate the suffering of bereaved families? Are you going to start negotiations with healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u180	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u181	Member, the death certificate is a medical document on which the doctor must indicate the morbid diseases or conditions that directly caused the death, as well as the other morbid states, factors or physiological conditions that contributed to the death; But he can also request investigations in case of suspicious death. For example, certification of death is also a legal process by which the fact, cause and circumstances of death are documented in writing. Therefore, it is not intended to delegate this act to other health professionals. However, in the face of the real difficulties that you are talking about, other solutions have been sought to have a death certificate issued at home in the under-funded area of physicians. A first measure under the Social Security Financing Law for 2016 makes it possible to value the medical examination necessary for the establishment of this death certificate: the examination necessary for the establishment of the death certificate in the home carried out by the doctor is paid by a lump sum of 100 euros when it is carried out in times of low medical availability, at night, on weekends or on public holidays, or every day and at any time in the underfunded areas. More broadly, this financial measure is part of improved access to care, including access to a physician. As you recalled, the Government's objective is to increase the resources in general city medicine to improve the management of the routes and ensure the continuity and permanence of the care. These plans will also strengthen the capacity of physicians to respond to requests for death certificates from families in painful settings. You can count on the Government's determination to find all the necessary avenues for improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u182	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-18-O1109.u183	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Setting of the agenda; Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2019 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
