ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on competition controls and sanctions in French Polynesia and New Caledonia (No. 1139).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u2	Mrs Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to you for the second time, and very briefly, because this bill does not give rise to any difficulty or opposition. Its main purpose is to ratify an order on competition law in French Polynesia, which supplements the law of the country in areas falling within the competence of the State. On this point, there was no reservation to make, so much so that our two Assemblies have already voted separately in accordance with this ratification, unanimously. Promulgation must take place before 10 August in order to comply with the requirements of article 74 (1) of the Constitution. Our versions, however, differed slightly with respect to articles added by the Senate at first reading. A Joint Joint Committee therefore met on 4 July to agree on the version proposed to you today. In the preamble, and before detailing the inputs of the final text, I would like to welcome the work between the two assemblies. The discussions with the Senate rapporteur, Mrs Catherine Troendlé, were frank but warm and very fruitful, because they enabled us, under the benevolent authority of our respective committee chairmen, to settle the differences of appreciation of our two assemblies, in order to seal an agreement beneficial to all, in French Polynesia as well as in New Caledonia. In this respect, the whole process of discussion on this text has been exemplary of the productive and positive labour relations that can be established between our two assemblies, when the general interest is what drives us first. I would also like to stress the extent to which the discussions that I have had with the ultramarine members of all the benches of this Assembly have enabled me to better understand the ins and outs of the very particular, if not singular, situation of French Polynesia and New Caledonia. The openness, availability and support of our colleagues are to a great extent in the positive outcome given both to the work of the National Assembly and to the negotiation with our colleagues in the Senate. I now turn to the details of the text. Article 2 has been adopted in the drafting of our Assembly. It allows, I recall, the cooperation between the various competition authorities, whether national or ultramarine, and deals with the remedies and deadlines for appeals against the decisions of the Polynesian Competition Authority – APC. Article 3 was adopted in the drafting of the Senate. We also wanted to be subject to the reporting obligations to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – HATVP – the general rapporteurs of the two ultramarine authorities, who have significant prerogatives, and who were not mentioned in the Sapin 2 Act. The Senate finally wanted these corrections to be done as a whole, not step by step. This is an option that we have not preferred, but we have agreed to. Finally, article 4 is the result of identical amendments defended by Mr. Philippe Gomès, Member of Parliament for New Caledonia, and myself, which were intended to extend to New Caledonia the use of investigative procedures and techniques envisaged by national competition law since 2009. The Senate has accepted this pragmatic proposal, which resolves the difficulties felt on the ground. [[Applause on all benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, I made it very brief. Before inviting you to adopt this text, I would like to stress the singularity of the situations of Polynesia and New Caledonia in the Republic, to which I hope we will find an ad hoc solution. In the future, we will have to ensure, when adopting our texts, that the provisions specific to these territories are incorporated, as provided for in article 74 of the Constitution. It is sometimes within the framework of very technical or even arid texts that we also build the open and fraternal Republic that we want, in which freedom and responsibility combine to achieve the best balance of equality between different and respected territories as such within our Republic, which nevertheless remains indivisible, secular, democratic and social.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u5	Madam Chair, the Chair of the Commission, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, is very much the meaning of this bill. This is a strong demand of our ultramarine fellow citizens, who are confronted daily with the problem of expensive living. Structural factors of course explain the high cost of living in the overseas countries: insularity, geographical distance, economic structures historically oriented towards metropolitan France, to the detriment of local productions or regional exchanges. The small size of markets also leads to distortions in their structure or functioning: monopolies, oligopolies, cartels, abuse of dominant position. However, it is always the consumer who, in the end, pays for the lack of competition. French Polynesia, in 2015, and before it, New Caledonia, in 2009, took strong measures to boost the economy, protect the consumer and strengthen the purchasing power of households in their fields of competence. The order of 9 February 2017, made on the basis of Article 74(1) of the Constitution, which is subject to your ratification, is intended to take the necessary measures so that the competition authorities can fully exercise their functions and have appropriate enforcement powers. The Senate – which passed the bill unanimously yesterday – has enriched the text to clarify remedies, and to restore the obligation to transmit declarations of property status and declarations of interest to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, for members of the independent administrative authorities in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. In the same spirit, the National Assembly has provided additional measures to extend the reporting obligations to HATVP to the general rapporteurs of the Polynesian and Caledonian authorities, and also to extend certain investigative techniques to the national competition authority to the Caledonian Competition Authority. In this respect, I welcome the investment of Members Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer. It was also necessary to respect the deadlines for ratification, in an extremely tight timetable – it is true that a lot of time had been lost before. The subject was raised yesterday in the Senate, and I know that many of you on these benches share the same objective: I would therefore like to underline the Government's wish to reintroduce the practice of preparing regular texts to deal with the adaptations of the law in the overseas territories. I know that Mrs Sage, in particular, shares this ambition. The draft revision of section 73 of the Constitution also includes the introduction of a bill to ratify the standards developed by the communities – if they seize this option. As was also stated in the blue book, this legislative vector could be "an opportunity for all territories to obtain amendments of standards, in order to take into account more quickly: the articles for the certification of criminal penalties decided by the communities of article 74; legal adaptation measures that would have been requested by communities outside the scope of the authorizations; the overseas adaptation measures of recent laws, for which the issue of special provisions could not be dealt with in time, taking into account the time constraints of interdepartmental validation or parliamentary adoption." We could work together to deal with these issues much more quickly, to meet the needs of the territories and, above all, the expectations of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on all benches]] So we are finalizing this bill. Thank you to all those who worked on it, both in the Senate and in the Assembly. When everyone works together, we save a little time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u6	In the general debate, Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, competition law is now part of the structure of economic relations. It is a relatively recent but particularly lively right, thanks in particular to the influence of the European Union. The wealth of European case law in this area and the network of national competition authorities have made it possible to create a clear, stable and effective law that benefits all economic actors and consumers alike. However, this right does not apply to a part of French territory, particularly in French Polynesia. This island market favours oligopolies and monopolies, which generate high prices, and is not sufficiently attractive for economic actors. In order to remedy this situation, it was essential to establish competition rules. This is why French Polynesia, by two laws of the country of 23 February 2015 and 14 April 2015, decided to considerably strengthen its competition law by creating, among other things, a Polynesian Competition Authority. As we pointed out in our discussions at first reading, the beginnings of the PCA are rather promising. That is why we believe that we must support it. In particular, this is the purpose of the order that we will now ratify. While competition law is one of the competences of French Polynesia, the law of the country establishing a local competition code could not, however, include provisions relating to the investigative powers of APC agents or to controls, nor could it specify the remedies applicable to its decisions, since the State retains its competence in these areas. In order to remedy these difficulties, the Government, by Order No. 2017-157, chose to supplement competition law in French Polynesia by filling these gaps. The Ordinance contains 14 articles, based on Book IV of the Commercial Code, relating to criminal law, criminal and administrative procedures, and judicial organization. They complement and strengthen the capacity of an APC to be able to carry out its monitoring and sanctioning tasks. The Senate has considered this ratification bill first, and has usefully completed it. Section 2, added by the Senate, deals with remedies against decisions rendered by the PCA, and fills a necessary gap. Article 3 deals with reporting obligations to the High Authority for the transparency of public life, which are consistent with the national regime of independent administrative authorities. On the initiative of the rapporteur and our colleague Philippe Gomès, the National Assembly added an article 4 on the New Caledonia Competition Authority in order to fill a gap. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is particularly pleased that the Joint Joint Committee was able to agree on a compromise text. Indeed, some felt that the provisions relating to New Caledonia had no place in the present draft law. However, this argument does not seem justified to us, because the matter is the same and, above all, these provisions respond to an express request of the elected representatives of New Caledonia. [[Applause on all benches]] There are not many legislative vehicles for the ultramarine territories, and we think it would have been a shame not to take advantage of this opportunity. We stress that all these additions are essential legal tools for the full discharge of the tasks entrusted to the APC and the New Caledonia Competition Authority, as well as for full compliance with competition law in the Overseas Territories. For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will enthusiastically adopt this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u8	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u9	Madam President, Minister, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen – mainly from Polynesia and New Caledonia! –, thank you for being here for this important meeting for our small territories. After a reading in each assembly and then a joint joint committee, we come to the conclusion of the examination of this important bill for the functioning of local economies in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. The main objective of the text was to extend the monitoring and sanctioning tasks of the Polynesian Competition Authority. In order for this authority to be properly established, the State, in turn, had to legislate in matters attributed to it by the organic status of Polynesia: criminal procedure and the protection of public freedoms. The order of 9 February 2017 which this bill intends to ratify is thus intended to extend and adapt to French Polynesia certain provisions of the commercial code relating to controls and sanctions in respect of competition. By adopting this text, we will give the PCA all the tools it needs to carry out its mission. This is a major step forward in the construction of Polynesian competition law. I now turn to the provisions that have been introduced by our Assembly concerning the New Caledonia Competition Authority. I would like to thank, on my behalf, and on behalf of Philippe Dunoyer and all New Caledonians, those who have intervened in this matter to assist and support us, including the Minister, in the Government, the rapporteur and the Chairperson of the Law Committee. We were afraid, at one point, that these provisions would end up in a parliamentary black hole. Finally, they are in the final text, and we are particularly pleased with them, because they are important. Last week, the Joint Joint Committee reached an agreement and decided to retain Article 4, which we had adopted at first reading. I welcome this because this article represents an important step in the very recent establishment of the Competition Authority of New Caledonia. At first reading, I referred to the difficult way in which this authority was created, as well as to the many adaptations to our legislation which it required. Recent developments once again illustrate the urgent need to facilitate and develop competition in our territories. The conclusions of the latest UFC-Que choix study on the standard food basket are indeed extremely severe for New Caledonia, since this basket is 124 per cent more expensive than in metropolitan France. As we say in our country, "it calms down" when we shop. Of course, you have pointed out, Madam Minister, insularity and distance play; Of course, this is a small market; Of course, our business traditions make us look more to Europe and France than to our regional environment; However, this is not enough to explain the price differences. Some markets are completely locked in, with competition remaining at the idea stage; This directly helps to ensure that prices are extremely high and disadvantageous for consumers. I'm sure in Polynesia, they have to be at an equivalent level. The Competition Authority of New Caledonia will therefore have work to do. It has already demonstrated its usefulness in ensuring the free play of competition. As revealed in its report of activity, this new institution in the Caledonian landscape issued thirteen decisions, opinions or recommendations, within its various powers, during the first quarter of its existence; It also issued two merger decisions and five authorisation decisions in the retail sector. Beyond its advisory and supervisory tasks, the Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia must play an educational role: it is a question of reversing a cultural tradition. We must therefore explain to consumers, businesses and institutions the importance of fostering competition in our territory. The Authority must also promote better information for consumers, as consumers do not have a tradition in our country to compare products and ensure that they have the lowest possible price basket. We must enable the Authority to carry out its tasks, in particular by extending to New Caledonia investigative procedures and techniques under national competition law. This is the objective of article 4 of the draft law, which allows the officers of the economic affairs directorate and the Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia to have the same powers as the agents sworn in in metropolitan France for the finding of violations of economic regulations. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, MODEM and GDR groups]] In summary, this text allows for an additional step towards full compliance with competition law in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. You will have understood this: the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote without hesitation in its favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u10	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, competition in the overseas regions is a complicated matter to deal with, because there are capital intensive activities there, which sometimes raise questions about the very need for competition – at least that is the view of those on the right side of the mallet. In another life, I was in charge of setting up competition in the telecommunications sector in French Polynesia: it was quite sporting. The historical operator was indeed showing some inertia in the matter. I would have been very pleased if the PCA existed. Turning to the bill we are considering today, the GDR group will obviously vote in favour of it. This text will improve the situation of Polynesians by introducing controls that did not exist. I will, however, put two flats. The first concerns the possibility for the President of Polynesia to refer to cases. This option, combined with the provision contained in section 9 bis of the Order, introduced by section 2 of the Bill, seems to us to be a delicate situation. We will have to be extremely careful, because this will lead the National Competition Authority to be subject to the same obligations as the Polynesian Competition Authority to the President of Polynesia. In the event of a request for assistance from the APC to the National Competition Authority, the Authority could thus be in default, since the President of Polynesia would have the right to refer to the case. The second flat is internal to Polynesia. A law of the country has been adopted which exempts from the obligation of competition and information certain contracts which could be awarded between entities dependent on the government of Polynesia and a number of subcontractors involved in large projects. Thus, Tahiti Nui Développement et Développement – TNAD –, an organisation responsible for planning that directly depends on the government of Polynesia, is not obliged to submit to the obligation to compete for the markets in which it operates. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] With the exception of these two flats, which I wanted to point out, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u12	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u13	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us is intended to ratify Order No.2017-157 dated February 9, 2017. It extends and adapts to French Polynesia certain provisions of Book IV of the Commercial Code relating to competition controls and sanctions. Let's just say right away: we are in favour of this bill, first of all because it responds to the request of the Polynesians themselves. Indeed, in November 2014, the Assembly of Polynesia requested by a resolution that the Government take an order in order to align the status and operation of the Polynesian Competition Authority with that of the Metropolitan Competition Authority. As you know, the division of powers between country laws and national laws did not allow Polynesia alone to align this status. The long wait for this order by the Polynesians – two years – requires us to be responsible and effective. The Polynesian Competition Authority authorises economic concentration operations. It controls and punishes anti-competitive practices. It issues opinions and recommendations on competition issues. Finally, it authorizes any creation or extension of a commercial area. This independent administrative authority, under local law, thus fulfils a valuable mission, in our view: to ensure that competition does not obey the law of the strongest. We are all too familiar with the toxic effects of total deregulation of the economy. Since 2012, the Autorité de la concurrence has had the structural injunction for the overseas departments and regions, as well as for the overseas communities of Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Martin, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Wallis-et-Futuna. This option allows the Autorité de la concurrence to direct undertakings in a dominant position, apart from any abuse of that dominant position, therefore in the absence of any infringement of competition law, to remedy "competition concerns" which it considers would result from this situation. In particular, it allows an undertaking to modify or terminate the contracts which give rise to its economic power, and even to divest commercial areas within a relatively short period of time. France is in favour of a measure to prevent the concentration of economic power and to break private monopolies. Therefore, Article 1, which complements the powers of the Polynesian Autorité de la concurrence along the lines of those of the French Autorité de la concurrence, seems to us a logical outcome of our political position. We are also prepared to layer the rules of judicial review on metropolitan law, as proposed in Article 2. We are aware that the Polynesian Competition Authority has been a subject of debate. The recent attempt to change its functioning with a view to reducing its powers in the fight against private monopolies attests to this. These debates belong to the Polynesians, since they fall within the competence of the community. However, within the jurisdiction of the State, we might consider removing the secrecy of the PCA's deliberations. This would allow the French in Polynesia to learn the reasons behind the PCA's decisions. Since these decisions have a direct impact on everyday life in Polynesia, in particular on rising prices, it seems to us reasonable, and even desirable, that the people can see for themselves the motivations of a particular decision, in line with the greatest citizen involvement that we call for. In the same vein, we could also make public the vote of each of the members of the college, for if the secrecy of the deliberations is a general principle of law, it prevents the people from understanding the meaning of a decision. Let us not forget that the end of the secret of the deliberation was a revolutionary conquest, obtained in 1791 to ensure that the magistrates had a firm hand against the rogue enterprises, and that it was not restored until 1795. It seems to me that clause 3 of this bill, which imposes a declaration of assets and interests on members of the CPA 'penalty' formations, goes precisely in this direction. Since it avoids collusion between judges and the private sector, we are in favour of it. However, as I said, this logic would require further elaboration. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In conclusion, we will therefore vote in favour of this bill, in order to respond to the Polynesians' demands for a framework for competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u15	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u16	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this text follows a joint concluding committee. The bill under discussion was intended to ratify Order No. 2017-157 of 9 February 2017 extending and adapting to French Polynesia certain provisions of Book IV of the Commercial Code relating to competition controls and sanctions. It shall contain the measures necessary to enable the Polynesian Competition Authority to perform its functions fully and shall in particular have coercive means of control. These measures concern the jurisdiction of the courts, the statute of limitations of proceedings, the remedies against its decisions and the penalties incurred. The Ordinance also provides for the possibility of cooperation in the investigation of competition between the Polynesian Competition Authority and the Autorité de la concurrence at national level. Lastly, it is envisaged that the obligation to transmit a declaration of property status and a declaration of interest to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life for members of the independent administrative authorities of New Caledonia and French Polynesia will be reinstated. The National Assembly had added a provision stipulating that the general rapporteur of the competition authorities of French Polynesia and New Caledonia, as well as the members of the college, should be subject to the obligations of declaration of interest and property status. At the Joint Joint Committee stage, this article has not been retained. However, article 4 – the addition of the Law Commission of the National Assembly – provides that Caledonian agents benefit from advances in law since 2009, such as the control of computer-based operations and the possibility of using a loan identity on the Internet. The text responds to a request from French Polynesia: in accordance with the rules governing its status, it requested by a resolution the adoption by the State of the provisions falling within its competence in order to supplement a competition law and a law of the country regulating commercial practices. Insular territory, French Polynesia is an overseas community of the Republic. Located in the south of the Pacific Ocean, it is governed by article 74 of the 1958 Constitution and enjoys wide administrative autonomy. The power is essentially based on a territorial assembly elected by universal suffrage renewed in April 2018 and possessing the deliberative power, as well as on an executive body, constituted by the government and placed under the control of the Assembly of Polynesia. Thanks to its administrative autonomy, Polynesia has many legislative changes. The president of the overseas community elected in May 2018 establishes laws and regulations; He has almost similar powers in the Parliament in metropolitan France. The legislation in French Polynesia is therefore special: a specific right is already applied, allowing the legislator to define the conditions for the application of laws and regulations and making it possible to apply metropolitan law only upon express mention in this sense. In addition, Polynesia has "some categories of acts of the deliberative assembly acting under its jurisdiction in the field of law", commonly referred to as "the laws of the country". These acts take place in very broad areas of Polynesia's principled jurisdiction and can only be challenged before the Council of State and not before the Administrative Court. This text was originally intended to apply only to French Polynesia. However, the Senate has extended the application of Article 2 to New Caledonia...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u17	And he did the right thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u18	... and this extension was made for the whole text – a step welcomed by the Assembly, which consequently amended the title of the text. New Caledonia is also a territory with a special status of broad autonomy – sui generis, established by the Nouméa Accord – that differs from Polynesia by giving it not only administrative autonomy but also, in a sense, political autonomy. With the exception of the areas of defence, security and justice, which remain metropolitan, New Caledonia has autonomy for other sovereign powers – autonomy which is one of our current concerns in the Chamber with the consideration of the draft constitutional revision. As has long been announced by the executive, this reform will introduce a right to "differentiation" between communities, after experimenting – or not – to "enable local elected officials to respond more effectively to the needs of the population present in their territory". Above all, the regulatory power of the overseas communities, as provided for in section 73, is expanded. If the draft constitutional law remains in its current form, the latter may request that they be empowered by decree in the Council of Ministers to determine the rules applicable in their territory in a limited number of matters which may fall within the scope of the law or regulation. The French Republic must respect the particularities of each of its territories: while it is one and indivisible, autonomy and differentiation must be guaranteed. The particular context of Polynesia and New Caledonia, both geographically, insularly and politically, invites us to show humility in accepting the particularity of these French territories, which must be taken into account with their specificities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] That is why we are asking you to vote on this text in order to enable these two Overseas Territories to implement this code of good economic behaviour as early as 10 August and thus to continue the economic recovery already under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u19	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u20	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the Chair of the Law Committee – dear Yaël – ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore doing a little bit of a parenthesis in our work on the revision of the Constitution, but in a way it is practical work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u21	It feels good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u22	Indeed, we are putting into practice the idea that, yes, our Republic is indeed diverse, yes, the territories are different and their singularities are recognised – perhaps not as much as some would like, but the text that we are considering this morning proves that unity in diversity has a meaning, which brings us back to the somewhat agitated debate last night on the terms "decentralization", "autonomy", "recognition" of diversity. The insularity and singularity that it constitutes seem to me to be very important and fully justify a differentiation of the applicable law. We therefore find ourselves with the text of the Joint Joint Commission on the draft law on competition controls and sanctions in French Polynesia and New Caledonia. Initially, it was a matter of ratifying an order of 9 February 2017 concerning only competition law in French Polynesia, taken on the basis of article 74-1 of the Constitution. We have rightly expanded the text – the article in question also illustrates the diversity of the Republic. [[Smile]] Nevertheless, it is the urgency that leads us to water our legislative work by interrupting the review of the constitutional review. Indeed, the text before us was published in February 2017 and it followed a route such that the deadline is approaching dangerously – all this to say that the "manufacture of the law", to take up a fashionable formula, is not only a matter of parliamentary work but of a process, upstream, downstream, which should encourage everyone to fulfil their mission and not to let pass any expiry date whatsoever. In this case, it is August 10 and, without a bad word play, the order is likely to be dissolved if we do not take care of it, which would still be quite unfortunate. The original bill contained a single clause to ratify the order. Changes have been made by our two chambers. By the Senate first of all: an Article 2 has been inserted, which raises to the legislative level provisions on remedies and cooperation with the competent national bodies; an article 3, which subjects the members and the highest officials of the competition authorities of French Polynesia and New Caledonia to obligations of declaration of interests and assets to the High Authority for the transparency of public life – this way of parallelism with mainland France seems to me welcome. The Members, for their part, added not the grain of salt that some people sometimes mention, but another added value – I welcome the one brought by the Senate – with some changes, notably to Article 3: the obligations to declare interests and to the High Authority for the transparency of public life have been extended to the rapporteurs-some debates have taken place on this point. [[Smile]] An article 4 has been added – I turn to our distinguished colleagues representing this territory, Philippe and Philippe, Gomès and Dunoyer, extending to the Autorité de la concurrence of New Caledonia certain powers of investigation in respect of anti-competitive practices. This article is the result of identical amendments – which is why I greeted him – supported by our colleagues Gomès and our distinguished Polynesian colleague, Mrs Sage, to make up for a lack that this Authority is suffering from. I am very happy to do so and I am very honoured to do so, even though I am a modest voice: at the request of my colleague, who will not be able to speak in the light of the parliamentary procedure, I welcome all the parliamentarians who have worked on this text, who have associated themselves with it: little by little, competition law is also taking shape in these parts of the national territory, in Polynesia and in New Caledonia. I therefore welcome the extension of the provisions to New Caledonia, which has been expected for many years. In short, under the leadership of both Catherine – Kamowski and Troendlé – the Joint Joint Committee played its part perfectly. I would like to say a little bit of a bit bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u24	I welcome the wisdom of the rapprochements that you have obtained because it was not, it seems to me, absolutely won in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u25	We must also thank the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u26	So we can move in the right direction. The drafting of the National Assembly was preferred for the title and articles 2 and 4, the drafting of the Senate was preferred for article 3. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In conclusion, as you have understood, we can only welcome an agreement between the two chambers in the interests of the two territories, Polynesia and New Caledonia. As I had the opportunity to say a few weeks ago, it is with pleasure that the Republicans will vote for this text which deserves all the attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u27	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u28	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u29	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u30	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u31	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft constitutional law for a more representative, responsible and effective democracy (No. 911, 1137, 1053, 1097, 1098).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u32	Last night, the House continued its discussion of the articles, concluding with Amendment No 1273 on the additional article before Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u33	I have before me several amendments, Nos 1273, 1274, 1812, 2352, 1813, 1617, 1414, 1625, 1626, 2414, 2405, 2392, 2198, 328, 1718, 396, 1415 and 1338, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1812 and 2352 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 328 and 1718 and 396 and 1415. Amendment No 328 is the subject of several sub-amendments, Nos 2489, 2490, 2491, 2507, 2485 and 2493. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 1273.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u34	This amendment concerns a civilization issue and the great challenge of our century. It aims to constitutionalize the objectives essential for the survival of the human species, namely, the fight against climate change and the preservation of biological diversity, the right of future generations and the principle of non-regression of environmental standards. Our global ecosystem has entered a state of ecological emergency. Life on the only planet at our disposal is in danger. It therefore seems essential to include in the Constitution a "green rule", which means that one does not take on nature more than it can reconstruct, or produce more than it can endure over a year. The Environmental Charter, incorporated in 2005 into the constitutionality block, affirmed three principles: prevention, precaution and polluter pays. These principles have been weakened, or at least continuously attacked, in particular by the introduction of a compensation system or the existence of market systems such as the carbon market. However, one cannot claim to solve a problem on the basis of its causes. The green rule will make it possible to affirm the priority of ecological interest over economic interest, to reverse the order of our priorities for ecological transition, to refuse the appropriation of ecosystems and to gradually eliminate products harmful to our health and harmful to the environment. Let us not miss, once again, the opportunity for us to preserve future generations, but also the image they will have of us when we have to judge ourselves before history.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u35	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 1274.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u36	This withdrawal amendment, without including the term "green rule" in the Constitution, is, however, intended to reaffirm the precautionary principle vis-à-vis our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u37	I should like to inform you that, on identical amendments Nos 1812 and 2352, a request for a public vote has been submitted to me by the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1812.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u38	We are dealing with a series of amendments aimed at protecting the planet and future generations by introducing a principle of non-reduction into the sustainable nature of development, and in this case by adding the principle of the protection of global commons. Dominique Potier, who has done a lot of work on this subject, regrets not being present, but MPs sometimes have obligations in their ridings and I make myself his interpreter. Of course, I share his concern, raised by our group as a whole. Natural and cultural commons are an old and new legal category that covers both the environment, water, air, land, soil, landscapes and cultural heritage, up to digital. The scientific and intellectual world, which we must invite to the table of our discussion on the Constitution, has been paying particular attention to this for years. Indeed, our common life, our community, our future depend on the protection we will be able to surround these common goods that connect and enliven us. We have become aware of our interdependence, especially in recent decades. What we decide here has consequences elsewhere. COP21, which brought together more than 200 countries, translated these commitments. We are aware of the fragility of the planet and the enditude of the living world. We cannot, in the twenty-first century, maintain a Constitution that does not mention this major fact. That is why we propose that you introduce to Article 1 the concept of world common goods and, with it, the concept of universal and our interdependence. We propose that you thus carry a broader vision, encompassing those global commons that are part of our memory and our survival. To vote for this amendment is to affirm that our sovereignty will no longer be exercised in isolation but in solidarity with the rest of the world, that our Republic is open and respectful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u39	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 2352.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u40	There was a forum signed by intellectuals. There has still been a step taken in committee by including this principle in the Constitution, but we consider that it does not sufficiently bind the State, the Republic because, in order to stop the loss of biodiversity, to preserve the environment, it is not only a question of writing, as the majority proposes, that France "acts". You are all the more aware that the Constitutional Council has no means to control the resources mobilised in this area. We propose, therefore, to include in the constitutional text that France "guarantees the preservation of the environment, biological diversity, climate and other global commons". Without this precaution, the inclusion in the Constitution will only be a powder of perlimpinpin, as President Macron would say, a measure of display that is not functioning, does not open any rights and does not give rise to any case law. That is why we wish to replace the verb "act" with another that truly engages – I propose it by calling to the benevolent attention of Nicolas Hulot's cabinet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u41	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1813.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u42	This withdrawal amendment is in the same spirit: to include in Article 1 of the Constitution a founding principle that includes the protection of global commons, which would allow us, in Article 34 – we will later examine the provisions to amend it – to assert the predominance of the principle of protection in the light of other fundamental principles such as freedom of competition and the right to property, which, because of the general interest and the need to take into account the finiteness of our planet and the requirement of the protection of the living world, force us to mitigate their possible negative effects. These two fundamental principles must be maintained, but they must be regulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u43	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1617.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u44	We must take the opportunity of this constitutional revision to include in the Constitution the anthropocene, the recognition of the planetary limits linked to the depletion of resources, the acceleration of global warming, the collapse – of unprecedented violence – of biodiversity. While the Government wished to include climate change in its draft law in article 34 of the Constitution, many of us have demonstrated that this would not change much in the current situation, because the issue is not just that of the law. Many jurists and environmentalists have mobilized to include this principle in article 1 of the Constitution. The Law Commission has worked in this direction, thanks to the support and personal mobilization of Minister of State Nicolas Hulot. The question remains of the terms to be used in order to complete this progress in constitutional law. With this amendment, we propose a wording referring to "a high level of protection of the environment", to the climate, to biodiversity, but also to the scarcity of natural resources, namely the recognition of the planetary limits, and finally to the principle of non-regression so that the Republic's commitment in this field does not cease to increase. This is the principle of the Republic on the move – for ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u45	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1414.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u46	This amendment, which is very similar to that of Mrs Batho, is based on the same arguments. I welcome the forthcoming inclusion in Article 1 of the Constitution of the principle of the preservation of the environment, biodiversity and the fight against climate change. Having said that, we should go further by adding the principle of non-regression, because sustainable development is ahead of us and we cannot afford any setbacks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u47	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1625.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u48	If you do not mind, Madam President, I shall defend Amendment No 1626 at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u49	Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u50	The Law Commission proposed to retain the word "act". It does not appear anywhere in the Constitution and we cannot therefore refer to any interpretation of this concept by the Constitutional Council. Amendment No 1625 proposes an alternative wording: the Republic "guarantees the right to a high level of environmental protection", which is also in "constant improvement". It is very important to retain the verb "guarantee", which opens up the possibility, with reference to Article 61-1 of the Constitution, to initiate priority issues of constitutionality based on Article 1e of the Constitution. Amendment No 1626 is a fallback amendment. The aim is to propose the simplest wording, as an alternative to that adopted by the Law Commission: "It ensures a high and ever-increasing level of preservation of the environment, biodiversity and action against climate change". This writing is the one that is closest to what Nicolas Hulot had desired. I regret the absence of Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, but I assume she will join us soon. I am sure that, in the meantime, the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament will be able to answer my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u52	The guard of the seals reminded us yesterday, in another debate, that the Constitution could not be revised without assessing its consequences. In all honesty, I wonder about the legal scope of the wording proposed by the Committee on Laws. Beyond mere posting, I fear that the effects, in the light of the provisions of the Environment Charter, are non-existent. I would like the Government to give us a precise explanation of the concrete consequences of the drafting adopted in the Law Committee, which we consider to be weak.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u53	We come to Amendments Nos 2414 and 2405, which can be presented together. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u54	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Laws for hearing the warning message on environmental protection and combating climate change and for agreeing to include this principle, originally provided for in Article 34 of the Constitution, in Article 1. This is already a first step – and it is important. Some will see only com'; I see much more important effects for all those who are fighting for the recognition of these rights. Nevertheless, we believe that the principle of non-regression is paramount. I would like to support the action of my colleagues who, in committee, have defended this principle. Mr Ferrand explained to us that we could have a reverse reading of this principle. After hearing it, it seems to me, on the contrary, even more important to include the principle in the Constitution. Our intention is to focus irreversibly on environmental rights. When one takes a step forward to strengthen the protection of the ecosystem, biodiversity, the environment in general, it is no longer possible to go back. If you consider that it is not in this way that we can achieve the objective, let us think together about how best to engrave this principle in the marble of our Constitution. In addition, I share the views expressed regarding the use of the verb "act". Many would like to strengthen the scope of the principle by using another verb – "ensure" or "ensure". I will support the amendments that are intended to do so. Amendment No 2414 also seeks to introduce the concept of "resilience", which is complementary to the principle of non-regression: we must not just preserve, we must be pro-active, because climate change, alas, is already in progress. Today, a large number of territories suffer the consequences of this change, which requires us to change our behaviour, to decide on planning and construction policies that allow resilience to this change.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u55	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2392.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u56	This amendment tends to address the concerns already expressed by other Members. He takes up the initial proposal of Minister of State Nicolas Hulot, which satisfied us in that it introduced the requirement of a high level of protection, the idea of non-removal in sustainable development and used the verb "guarante". Many amendments reflect a question about the choice of verb. Does the verb "act" give a strong enough sign from Article 1 of the Constitution? This verb, which we find nowhere in the Constitution, does not seem to us to be working. It would be detrimental to reserve to such a fundamental issue as the preservation of the environment a term that does not provide the constitutional guarantees that we expect when we state a principle. It will be very difficult for the citizen to demonstrate the action or inaction of the State in the preservation of the environment. That is why we also propose, in Amendment No. 2198, the use of the word "guarantee", which appears four times in the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, integrated into the constitutionality block. European Union law also mentions on several occasions the words "high level of protection" in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. This amendment is therefore fully consistent with France's European and international commitments. The words 'constant progress', which are also included in the amendment, correspond to the principle of non-regression enshrined in the environmental code: we wish to include it in the basic law in order to guarantee its full legislative scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u57	I give you the floor again, Mrs Untermaier, to support Amendment No 2198.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u58	I consider it defended, Madam Chair: as I said, it is intended to introduce the word "guarantee".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u59	On the identical amendments Nos 328 and 1718, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We therefore come to identical amendments Nos 328 and 1718. I call Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet, chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to support Amendment No. 328.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u60	This amendment is part of the continuity of the discussions we have had, which enabled us to stress that our wish not to reopen the Environment Charter does not, on the contrary, reflect any lack of interest in the fight against climate change and in respect for biodiversity. This amendment is in the direction of better taking into account the national representation of these major issues and the urgency to act. That is why we propose to include in Article 1 of the Constitution, among the founding principles of the Republic, a sentence as follows: "It acts for the preservation of the environment and biodiversity and against climate change. » We thus recognize the importance of preserving the environment, in all its components, for ourselves and for future generations. It is well known that this preservation is one of the greatest challenges we face: the number of amendments tabled on this subject, on all sides of the House, is a sign of the awareness of national representation. The constituent power has already affirmed in the Constitutional Act of 1 March 2005, by including the Charter of the Environment in the Constitution, the whole stake of the Republic's commitment. But – this may seem surprising today – the climate is not included in the Charter of the Environment or, indeed, in the Constitution, even though, as has already been pointed out, France has been at the forefront of the fight against climate change, notably by organizing COP21 at the end of which the Paris Agreement was concluded. In our view, the Constitution must take very strong note of the will to continue this action. The words "acts for" affirm in our eyes the will to act, a resolution, that of the Republic, and a high level of demand. It goes without saying that the case law will draw important consequences from the choice expressed by the constituent to consider the preservation of the environment, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against climate change as priorities of the Republic. As the Veil Committee pointed out in its conclusions, there is no inclusion in the Constitution that is merely symbolic. Each inclusion in the Constitution always has legal consequences: that is why it is necessary to be cautious with each inscription. I have no doubt this one will. We will be able, on all benches, to come together to greet this real progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u61	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1718.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u62	The aim of this amendment is to enshrine the preservation of the environment and biodiversity among the founding principles of our Republic, as well as the fight against climate change, by including it in Article 1 e r of the Constitution, which, in my view, sends a strong signal. Our debates show that, while so far the wish to amend Article 1 of the Constitution has been scarcely understood, many of us share it, on the other hand, it seems to us essential to do so on this point. Indeed, France has been able to show its awareness and its strong mobilization in the face of these challenges, which constitute the great challenge of the twenty-first century, not only within the framework of the Paris Agreement, but also through the inclusion of the Charter of the Environment in the fundamental law. That is why it seems urgent, in a troubled and uncertain international context, which sees the disturbing disengagement of leaders, to enshrine these principles in Article 1e of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u63	We come to the sub-amendments to Amendment No 328. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of sub-amendments Nos 2489, 2490 and 2491.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u64	Madam rapporteur, you want to give the means to ensure a "high level" of environmental protection: the problem is that the words "high level" are not included in the drafting of the Law Committee. Therefore, sub-amendment No 2489 is intended to guarantee "the right to a high level of protection". I would like to recall that the words "high level of environmental protection" are included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and in all European treaties. This concept is therefore perfectly marked and known. In addition, the same sub-amendment is intended to replace the words "action pour la préservation", whose problem we have already seen, with the words "guarantee the right to". As regards the legal consequences which you have mentioned, Madam rapporteur, of the inclusion in Article 1 of the Constitution of the sentence proposed in your amendment, I ask only to believe you. The grantor is, however, entitled to ask you and to ask the Government: what are the consequences? We must make our decisions in an informed manner. That is why we cannot include in Article 1 of the Constitution a sentence which is not known to be interpreted by the Constitutional Council. My question is therefore: in view of the existing case law, based on the Charter of the Environment, what will be the contribution of this sentence that you wish to include in Article 1? Would its registration change the Constitutional Council's assessment of the proportionate or disproportionate nature of an infringement of private property in order to protect the climate and enable the legislator to take decisions in this regard? I repeat: to believe you, I need to get accurate answers. Subamendment No 2490 reproduces the verb proposed by the Committee on Sustainable Development, namely "ensuring" rather than "acting". The words "acts for" should therefore be replaced by the words "ensures a high level of", always with reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Sub-amendment No 2491 is the most important at the political level: it refers to "constant progression", i.e. the principle of non-regression. To include it in the Constitution would be a real step forward, because tomorrow, if a kind of Donald Trump were elected in France President of the Republic, such an inscription would prevent any regression in the protection of the environment and biodiversity. It would serve as a constitutional lock, guaranteeing an obligation not of means but of ambition and result in the preservation of the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u65	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 2507.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u66	I reiterate my gratitude to Minister of State Nicolas Hulot, to whom we owe the inclusion in Article 1 of this founding principle. Without its presence in the Government, the Environmental Charter might have already been detrigued. Some 15 years after the incorporation of this charter into the Constitution in 2004, the principle of the protection of the environment and biological biodiversity and the fight against climate change will finally be enshrined in Article 1. This is an important moment. I welcome this progress and we will obviously vote on Amendment No 328. However, we would like to recall that, if we are to act forcefully, we must include in the Constitution the appropriate words, which is not the case with the verb "act". We prefer the word "guarantee", which would allow for a clear, clear and determined approach by the State to the protection of the environment. It is not for the jurisprudence to determine, in the future, the fate that must be reserved for the verb "act". It is up to us, who are constituent, to measure the words we make in the Constitution. But the verb "act" is nowhere in the Constitution: it will therefore make it difficult for judges to read our decision. On the contrary, the verbs "guarantee" or "assurer", far from containing any risk, would guarantee the direction we wish to give to this founding principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u67	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support both sub-amendments Nos. 2485 and 2493.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u68	I will not go back to the principle of non-regression, which is contained in sub-amendment No 2493: I have already explained myself on the subject. With regard to sub-amendment No 2485, it seems to me that there is a risk of distinguishing between the environment and biological diversity. That is why this sub-amendment seeks to clarify that biological diversity is indeed part of our environment. The change of a simple word is important in this respect: we need to clarify the law on this specific point. Indeed, since a week ago this amendment was discussed in committee, discussions have arisen on whether to differentiate the environment from biological diversity. Therefore, it should be pointed out that the Republic "acts for the preservation of the environment, its biological diversity".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u69	We come to identical amendments Nos 396 and 1415. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 396.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u70	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u71	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1415.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u72	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u73	I call Mrs Vidal to support Amendment No. 1338.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u74	This amendment is the result of the work of the Committee on Sustainable Development and its draftsman, Mr Arend. It is intended to include in article 1 of the Constitution that the Republic "ensures the preservation of the environment". The constituent, in 1958, did not take into account the environmental emergency. Today, scientific studies recall that, if we do not act immediately, we will be responsible for the sixth mass extinction in the history of the planet. Half of the species, both plant and animal, could disappear before the end of the twenty-first century. In view of this, it is essential to make the preservation of the environment a fundamental principle of our Republic. This choice is first and foremost a strong symbol. It places the environment at the heart of political action, at the heart of all public policies. It thus gives it a significant legal scope, since the constitutional judge may invoke it, as he does for other principles enshrined in article 1 of the Constitution. It also echoes the Environmental Charter, which is part of the constitutionality block. Lastly, he recalled France's international efforts to protect the environment and combat climate change, in particular the Paris Agreement. Amendment No 1338 therefore seeks to affirm the preservation of the environment as a central principle of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u75	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments and sub-amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u76	The committee obviously wants Amendment No 328 to be adopted, which it adopted by a very large majority after its discussions. It is therefore unfavourable to all the other amendments, as well as to the sub-amendments to Amendment No 328. The wording we have adopted is extremely broad: it covers all areas of the environment, which we wish to place at the top of the standards of our Republic. I stress once again that, in our view, the verb "act" is extremely positive: it is an action verb.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u77	He's inoperative!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u78	No, my dear colleague, he's not inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u80	On the contrary, it shows the strong will of our Republic to act for the environment, instead of remaining passive in the face of these problems. Moreover, our public policies show how much we want to take extremely proactive action to preserve the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u81	It won't go to the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u82	However, I do not want to foreshadow – I do not think it is our role – future decisions of the Constitutional Council,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u83	That's the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u84	... whose last decision has clearly shown that he can at any time invoke every principle enshrined in our Constitution in order to draw consequences from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u85	This is the very principle of constitutionality control!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u86	We cannot therefore assure you today, Mrs Batho, of the conclusions that the Constitutional Council will draw from what we are going to include in the Constitution. We would totally get out of our role as a constituent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u88	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize for my delay. We were presenting, together with the Prime Minister, the plan to combat terrorism – I obviously had to be present, since this plan includes many measures concerning justice. I fully support Amendment No 328 by the Committee on Laws, which is in line with the very logic of France's long-standing action to protect the environment, combat the effects of climate change and protect biodiversity. The inclusion of this principle in Article 1 of the Constitution is an act of a political nature, which is perfectly in line with the tradition of France. With regard to the debate you have had on the verbs "ensure" and "act", I believe that the word "act", proposed by the committee, is in the dynamic and the power of action. That is what must take precedence. I do not think that the Constitutional Council is able to draw singular consequences from the fact that you preferred the word "acts" to the word "assured". If you remember the word "acts" – which I hope – the Council will see in it the will to commit something strong and powerful: it will not see a significant difference, beyond a strictly nominalist point of view. I repeat: the adoption of Amendment No 328 will, it seems to me, not only have a real political effect, but also have a legal effect. Of course, it is never possible to preempt the future jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which must decide independently. On the other hand, if we raise these three themes, these three components of the same comprehensive action to protect the environment, to the status of Article 1 of the Constitution, it is certain that the Constitutional Council will see objectives of constitutional value there and will be empowered to balance them with other objectives of constitutional value. It will be there in its natural role, that of balancing, of proportionality between objectives of a different nature. Article 1 of the Constitution is both a political tool, in French tradition, and a powerful legal tool that will enable Parliament to act and the Constitutional Council to consider these three themes as objectives of constitutional value that must be fully respected. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, I give a favourable opinion on Amendment No 328 of the Committee on Laws and an unfavourable opinion on all other amendments and sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u90	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u91	Since the beginning of the discussion of this constitutional bill, our group has been rather reserved for the inclusion of additional fees in section 1 of the Constitution: for example, we voted against most of the amendments to the Constitution. On the other hand, we are facing a major challenge here: the preservation of the environment and the fight against climate change. Indeed, if the planet becomes uninhabitable, all other rights fall de facto. Our planet is 4.5 billion years old; life appeared there about 3.5 billion years ago and a species, in this case the homo sapiens, which appeared about 160,000 years ago, arrived at the stage where it can make the planet uninhabitable, uninhabitable not only for it, but also for all the other species. In other words, we could end life on our own planet. So we have an overwhelming responsibility, not only to our history, but also to the history of the planet. The question is how we assume this responsibility. On this point, we have a legal debate. Words make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u93	Of course, we might be in favour of the verb "act" – personally, this term suits me very well – but it implies an obligation of means and not an obligation of result. The verb "assurer", on the other hand, implies an obligation of result.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u95	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u96	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u97	[[Applause on a few benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and NG groups]] I invite you to think about it, my dear friends. Today we have a responsibility in this matter. I repeat, the verb "ensuring" implies an obligation of result, and it is precisely the obligation we have towards our planet. We therefore invite you to vote on these various amendments and sub-amendments, including the amendment by the Committee on Sustainable Development, to give our country an obligation to achieve results in the fight against climate change and the preservation of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u98	Once is not customary, I agree with Mr. Becht!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u99	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u100	My speech will be totally opposed to that of Mr Becht. It is true that we are discussing a major subject, an idea that has come a long way in fifteen years – something that we can rejoice about collectively. We are about to introduce, in article 1 of our basic norm, the principle that the Republic "acts for the preservation of the environment and biodiversity and against climate change". I invite you to reject the other amendments, which I consider to be excessively talkative. The wording of Amendment No 328 is already very explicit. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I come back to the debate we have just had. I have a deep conviction that the verb "act" allows for a precise formulation. Indeed, insurance or guarantee would create an unrealistic and particularly difficult performance obligation. On the contrary, the legal effects of a prescription for action seem very clear to me: if we cannot act against the preservation of the environment, against biological diversity and for climate change, the future action of the State is already particularly well pointed. We must all consider it a great honour to introduce this requirement in Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u102	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u103	No one can, of course, challenge the interests of preserving the environment. It is so true that we are, at this stage, the only country that has included in its Constitution a Charter of the Environment. That is the important place that the grantor wanted to give to this problem. I am afraid that by going further, at this stage, regardless of the wording adopted, we are setting ourselves up. As the rapporteur, Mrs La Garde des Seales and Mrs Batho have pointed out, we are not only doing a political work here: it is also a legal work. Of course, when the time comes, the Constitutional Council will draw all the conclusions of this amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution – that is the objective of some, it is also the object of my reservation. To put it simply, the role of the Constitutional Council is to weigh and weigh, in the light of the founding texts, the validity or otherwise of certain pieces of legislation. Thus, it will have to reconcile this new principle with other principles such as the freedom to undertake or the right to own property. I refer you to the 1982 Constitutional Council decision on nationalizations and to the priority issue of constitutionality of January 2017, where the Council made clear that there should be no disproportionate infringement of the freedom to undertake. By the wording chosen, whatever it may be at this stage, do we not pave the way for consequences whose scope we do not measure at all? Whether it is an obligation of result or of means, let me alert you to a concrete legal under-evaluation of the terms we use and the consequences that the Constitutional Council could draw from it on how we can work and innovate in our country. That really deserves reflection. Indeed, some Members even wanted to amend the Environment Charter in order to better reconcile innovation with the principle of accountability. Beyond the terms chosen, this is always the same debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u105	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u106	[[Smile]] I would like to go back to Amendment No 328 and a number of other amendments – I fell asleep last night reading them, which allows me to arrive fresh and available this morning. I found a paradox in the wording of Amendment No 328, the last words of which state that the Republic acts "against climate change". Today, if we look at the indicators, climate change is going in the wrong direction, that is, in the direction of rising temperatures and sea levels. But let's imagine that COP23, COP24, COP25 and even COP28 end up bearing fruit and that climate change is in the direction of climate change. Are we going to fight this climate change again? That seems a little paradoxical to me. I would therefore have preferred to write that the Republic acts "for the improvement of the climate" rather than "against climate change".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u108	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u109	Fifteen years ago, Jacques Chirac said, "Our house is burning and we look elsewhere. I believe that today we are not looking anywhere else. However, do we sufficiently consider the issue of climate as a priority? Definitely not. However, if we do not consider this a priority, it will not be our grandchildren or great-grandchildren, but perhaps just our children who will see the house permanently crushed. In other words, if there was only one subject that required a revision of our Constitution, it would be the priority issue of the environment. That is why we tabled Amendment No 1273, in which we call for the 'green rule' to be introduced, with reference to the golden rule that some of you have identified as a priority for future generations to whom we would be bequeath debt. In our view, the only real debt is ecological debt. As I said earlier, the day of the exceedance, that is, the day when we took the resources that Earth can rebuild or produce, was, in 1971, December 29. In 1991, it was in mid-October and we are on 1 August. As we debate in the hope that temperatures will not increase by more than 2 degrees at the end of the century, we hope that they will not increase by more than 4 degrees, which would lead to an absolutely chaotic evolution. This is therefore becoming an absolute urgency. That is why we propose to constitutionalize the green rule. Otherwise – because I understood that we would not get the majority on this point – I would draw your attention to the choice between the verbs "act" and "guarantee" or, at least, "ensure". This is obviously a fundamental difference, because "action" does not imply an obligation to achieve results. In this connection, I would point out that Article 1 of the Constitution does not provide that the Republic "acts for" equality before the law, but that it "ensures" equality, even though, as the keeper of the seals repeated yesterday, we are sometimes far from it: we think it is at least necessary to say that it ensures it, precisely in order to express the obligation of result. It would therefore be necessary, at least, to introduce evening the verb "guarantee" or the verb "assurer", because "act" seems to me to be really too weak given the urgency that we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u110	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u111	The situation is obviously catastrophic and there is an urgent need. When one sees the explosion of CO concentration in the atmosphere and the disappearance of more than half of the wild vertebrates and three quarters of the flying insects since the 1970s, the question is how to make the preservation of the environment and global commons, such as water and land, a priority. It must be made a priority in the Constitution, so that the Constitutional Council places it above the freedom to undertake and, in some cases, the right to own property.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u112	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u113	In this case, when talking about freedom of enterprise and property rights, they are often those of Arcelor-Mittal, Total, GlaxoSmithKline or Monsanto-Bayer rather than those of the small craftsman. The question is, therefore, how to circumvent the censorship of the Constitutional Council and return power to politics, so that it is no longer a political power disguised behind legal grounds that is exercised. An interesting debate is taking place on this subject, with statements, among others, by Mr Lagarde, who recommended that we ensure that we do not introduce everything into the Constitution in order not to give the Constitutional Council more power. What is proposed here is precisely the opposite: by introducing common goods, the green rule – possibly – and an obligation of result in the preservation of the environment, we give power back to democracy and to Parliament, we are given our power to make laws that protect the environment, preventing the Constitutional Council from censoring us later, as is the case today. Another question of course arises: it is not enough to make these issues a priority in the Constitution, because they are words: it will still have to be made a political priority that will have to be placed largely in front of international trade or budgetary requirements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u114	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u115	We will support these amendments. Many colleagues objected to the inclusion of many concepts in the Constitution, in order not to turn it into a telephone directory. A fairly large majority, however, seems to be emerging on the subject, and that is a good thing: environmental issues are so prominent, so important and imperative that the inclusion of these imperatives in the Constitution will oblige, volens nolens, to integrate them into all political acts and in all acts of life. It is obviously a constraint, but it is imperative: we have no choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u116	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u117	Madam Keeper of the Seals, thank you for your answer and please complete it. You tell us that including this sentence in Article 1 of the Constitution is a political act. We agree. I hope, for my part, that the largest majority can form around this desire to include in Article 1 of the Constitution a sentence on the environment, climate and biodiversity, regretting that it does not refer to the limits of the planet, but it is already a substantial step forward. All right, so, for the political act. The question is the legal effects of this political act, because it cannot be – and I think we will all agree – a proclamation without consequences. You are telling us, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that Parliament will be able to act, but it can already do so, and it already does so in many areas, for example by passing the law prohibiting neonicotinoids – and we could multiply the examples, with 26 laws that refer to the climate. The question then is what its obligation will be: what will fall within the constitutional level and oblige the legislator? You tell us that this will be a new power of action. Will it prevent, for example, the state from authorizing the "Golden Mountain" project, which destroys the Amazon forest? These are concrete questions. I will ask three specific questions. As for, first of all, the choice of the verb "act", you told us that there was no difference with the verb "insurer". However, the latter has given rise to jurisprudence by the Constitutional Council, while the word "act" does not appear anywhere in the Constitution. Why not choose the verb "assurer"? Second question, to which I would like to have an answer: why not take the reference to the "high level of environmental protection", which is already contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union? The third question: why not refer to constant progress, which would represent an obligation to act and limit Parliament's action within a constitutional framework?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u118	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u119	As Olivier Becht said earlier, this is a question of fundamental law, and on these issues the voice of France must be heard. More than that, what will be looked at is our ability to act. Here we have voted the so-called "Grenelle I" and "Grenelle II" laws. It was in France, the rapporteur-general, that COP21 was held, and everyone remembers that this event had the full impact it deserved. Now, Madam Keeper of the Seals, by using the verb "act", you certainly join in the action, but one can act in the sense of regression,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u121	...because there is no obligation of result. On the other hand, the verb "guarantee" imposes an obligation of result.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u122	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u123	We can act and experience environmental degradation – that's what we live every day –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u124	We can also act for preservation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u125	... while the verb "guarantee" implies an absolute requirement to improve the situation. Words have meaning and the strongest words must be used. "Acting" is not up to the stakes. Let us all think, ladies and gentlemen: if we use the word "guarantee", we will necessarily improve the level of environmental protection. It is an absolute requirement to do so, and I fully agree with the amendments made by Mrs Batho and Mrs Untermaier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u127	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u128	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I believe you are too intelligent not to distinguish between the obligation of result and the obligation of means. So many of us are saying that you're going to have to be convinced. If we are discussing the issue of the constitutionalization of the climate issue, it is because, as you know, the Constitutional Council has not established case law to prevent climate change and to adapt our legislation to it. Within the constitutional bloc, case law has had a restrictive interpretation, a literal reading, which has led to the non-recognition of any of the provisions of the Charter and the imposition of no new rights or obligations: hence the debate on the verb to be used. If you do not answer this question, you are ruining the progress that is represented by the inclusion of these principles in Article 1 of the Constitution. In this regard, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I refer you to the priority issues of constitutionality – QPC – of 7 May 2014 and 10 November 2011, which confirm my analysis: the Charter has not taken away any creation of law or any obligation for the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. So today we need to take a step.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u129	Mr Anthony Cellier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u130	The preservation of the environment is one of the greatest challenges we face. This challenge does not only involve ourselves: it also engages – and perhaps most importantly – future generations. We can repeat ourselves as a mantra that the preservation of the environment is important, that the erosion of biodiversity and the extinction of species are a reality and that climate change concerns us all, but we can also – and this is the right time to do so today – say that we must, in conscience, unanimously support Amendment No 328. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It tends to include in our Constitution, in our fundamental law, that France acts for the preservation of the environment and biological diversity, and against climate change, that we guarantee the protection of the environment in all its components, including biodiversity and the fight against climate change, and that we ensure that the Constitutional Council takes account of the preservation of the environment as an objective of full constitutional value. This amounts to saying that we adapt our right to the challenges of the long term to offer protection to French and French people in the face of these new threats and that we give ourselves the tools that will strengthen our mobilization for the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u131	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u132	We are living here an important moment. After the 2004 Charter and the Grenelle de l'Environnement, we come to include in Article 1 of the Constitution a fundamental principle of preserving biodiversity, protecting the environment and combating climate change. We are not blaming our joy, and I think we will vote unanimously on this. I would like to thank the rapporteur-general, whom I have forgotten in my thanks, for his tenacity to include this principle in Article 1. We are still – and this is often the problem of the majority – tiring with regard to the issues at stake. You are indeed faced with an obligation of compromise and the Senate is waiting for you: of course, it does not want the text to be too committed. I approach this issue with great humility. I listened to intellectuals, constitutionalists and environmental experts, all of whom unanimously told us that the verb "act" was not appropriate and that the verb "ensure" should be used.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u134	The majority of the Committee on Sustainable Development considered this to be a useful term, because it has tabled an amendment which uses the phrase "ensuring the preservation of the environment". Let us therefore be very careful and humble in the face of the challenges associated with the preservation of the planet and consider that the use of the verb "act" may render us powerless in the face of these fundamental questions which still make some of them smile, while it is our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u135	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u136	Mr Becht's words were very correct: if our planet becomes invivable, none of the rights that are now guaranteed by our Constitution, by our living together and by our civilizational project will be possible. So we need to change. I've been thinking, like all of you, about choosing between the verbs "ensure", "guarantee" and "act". I listened and said to myself that if rights are to be guaranteed and a situation is to be guaranteed, the public authorities must act today. We must not limit ourselves to guaranteeing rights, to ensuring the preservation of the environment, but we must act for this preservation. This is where the big difference lies. Now is the time for action. Time is no longer for the preservation of our ecosystems, but for their recreation, as Mr Hulot says. We are at a time when the injunction given to us is action. In the reflection between action and assurance, which has been quite long and sometimes paradoxical, I think it is the action we need from now on. Guaranteeing in the Constitution the need to act seems to me the best solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u137	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u138	After our debates this morning on the issues at stake in Polynesia, with the welcome of young Polynesians in the gallery, we must face the realities. The reality is that our Polynesian compatriots are the first to suffer from global warming. I welcome the Government's commitment to include environmental issues in Article 1; I have heard from the rapporteur-general, the Prime Minister and the Minister of State, who is responsible for the ecological and solidarity transition, that we are on a path that could lead to the collapse of biodiversity just ten days ago. The Committee on Sustainable Development has voted unanimously on the amendment it proposes. Who better than the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning can measure the challenges of the current trajectory? I would also point out, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that if we have not been able to include the principle of non-regression in the Environment Charter, it seems to me essential that we find the means to include it in Article 1 of the Constitution. [[Smile]] The metaphors sometimes allow me to understand better, I will conclude with that of the bacon egg: the chicken says "I act", the pig says "I assure". We are the pig: we must ensure the survival of our planet for humans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u139	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, we are acting here as if the work of the committees, whether for opinion or in substance, had not taken place. The text that we wish to see added to Article 1 of the Constitution with Amendment No. 328 – "It acts for the preservation of the environment and biodiversity and against climate change" – which is the subject of a consensus built with the Senate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u141	If it's already decided, then there's no need to debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u142	... was first built in the Law Committee, with all the commissioners who were willing to participate, based on the text of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. We are starting from the Government's proposal to include environmental conservation in Article 34, therefore among the powers of Parliament, and we have brought it to a first step, the inclusion in Article 1, with a verb, which commits, with a complement, biodiversity and the fight against climate change, because we consider it to be the way of making a Constitution of our time, in the words of Laurent Fabius, President of the Constitutional Council. To question the consequences of such acts is first of all to assume what the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council might be, whereas we have seen, again recently, the boldness of the Council when it comes to enshrining new constitutional principles, including that of fraternity. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, the question of how we move things forward is, in my opinion, more illuminating, since, in two days, we have just removed the word "race" from Article 1, we have just added the absence of a gender distinction, and we have just added such important principles as the preservation of the environment and biodiversity or the fight against global warming. So, gracefully, let us not minimize all these advances!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u143	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u144	Forgive me, Mr Houlié, but far from us the idea of minimizing this progress, quite the contrary! On the other hand, we are also in our role and we will not preempt the decision of the Senate: we are at first reading, the National Assembly is sovereign, and all Members present at the sitting have the right to express themselves on this subject and to enrich it, respecting what has been said in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u147	This is indeed a joint work between the Committee on Sustainable Development and the Law Commission, where these issues have been raised. If we allow ourselves, a week after this work, to come back to the subject in session, it is because we believe it is important to come and enrich the text. We recognize that the preservation of the environment in Article 1 is a major step forward. But the scope of the verb we will use, which we will enter in the marble, is also important. I have heard the arguments of the seal keeper, which I respect, but we must remember the stakes. Today, we would need 2.9 planets for humanity to be truly able to survive. The famous "day of exceedance" of the world's consumption of humans on this planet, which we are told about every year, is overtaken in August. But at the level of our country, it's not quite the same date: France has been living on credit since May 5th! We go far beyond the real means that our country has to ensure the survival of the French. It is time to move from an obligation of means to an obligation of result!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u148	Yes, but no result without action!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u149	This involves the survival not only of our nation, but of all those who share this planet with us. By amendment No 2405, we propose that the obligation of result, together with the term 'action', be associated with the principle of non-regression. Why? Today, in fact, we are obviously unable to guarantee this: look at our consumption figures. But it aims for a much more engaging horizon, with the perpetual will to progress. Hence the need to include the principle of non-regression in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u150	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u151	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would have liked to hear from you about the possibility of including the principle of non-regression, either in this form or in another form, but in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u153	The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u154	Madam seal keeper, there are days when I jealousy you: on all benches, you are asked, you are asked for explanations, you are asked for additional lighting on an amendment of parliamentary origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u155	It would have been better written by the seal keeper, I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we treated parliamentary work as you do, you would scream at the amputation of Parliament's prerogatives! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Together with Mr Houlié, I would like to point out that, just as the Government was considering the inclusion of a version in article 34 of the Constitution, it is thanks to parliamentary work that your rapporteurs and the members of the Law Committee defend this amendment. That being said, Madam seal keeper, it is a jealousy without resentment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u157	[[Smile]] You still feel some bitterness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u158	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let me say, however, that the authors of the amendment and the law commissioners, that is, the parliamentarians who drafted the amendment for inclusion in Article 1 of the Constitution, are proposing a major political and symbolic step forward! I would not like to see the fact that, behind the logorrhea denouncing the supposed shortcomings of the editorial system, the fact that it is this constitutional revision that has allowed us to state that the Republic acts for the preservation of the environment and of biological diversity and against climate change is a loss. Before that, no one had put it on the table! Then the debates are enlightening. I have heard Mr Gosselin say that the Constitutional Council will have to arbitrate in the light of several freedoms and principles. Indeed, it is not a question, through the creation of a principle or freedom, of annihilating others. Then others tell us that we do not know what the Constitutional Council will decide. Indeed; It is quite common to have difficulty anticipating what the Constitutional Council can decide! I understand that here or elsewhere, we would like to impose a much stronger constraint. In substance, why do we believe that "action" is better than "insuring"? We have spent a number of minutes questioning this issue. First of all, from our point of view – that has been said by others, I am not going to weigh up – it marks a will for action in a direction of progress, which aims to achieve a number of objectives. This verb, as I recall, is also suggested by the Council of State in its opinion on Article 2: it gives an insight that I urge you to read again because it is quite convincing. Rather than "guarantee" or "ensure", the words "act for" certainly establish an obligation of means, but transform it into an obligation of theoretical result, it would basically be content with an incantation without tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u160	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the LR, NG, FI and GDR groups]] It is a bit like saying: "The Republic assures that the Chernobyl cloud will stop at the border of the Republic. We know the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u161	[[Smile]] Wasn't that the case?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u162	How do we want France to place under its sole responsibility the ability to regulate global warming alone and everything else? All this has absolutely no meaning, except incantatory. Secondly, in substance, we did not want to exclude any part of the environmental problems. That is why we wanted to see both the fight against global warming, the preservation of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity. We wanted to avoid some sort of synecdocal effect, which would mean that, because we only mention the environment, we forget other aspects that are just as essential – this is the case, as we mentioned yesterday, of the Environment Charter, in which the climate issue was not included when it was drafted. On the other hand, we are told that the principle of non-regression must be included. First of all, it is already recognised by European law, in Article 3, paragraph 3, of the Treaty on European Union, which provides that the European Union, of which we are a founding and eminent member, you know, "is working for the sustainable development of Europe based on a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment". In other words, it is enshrined in a treaty that binds us. If it is therefore possible to amend the environmental rules in the future, it is only to maintain or improve the level of protection. It is already registered and it is not possible to do otherwise. Thus, organizing regression is not possible: it would therefore be perfectly useless and redundant to return, in a chattering way, to things to which we are already linked. In addition, constitutionalizing to impose it on the legislator would still ask a number of questions. In terms of form, it is not very in line with the requirements of brevity, generality, generality and clarity that are required of the constituent power when it amends the Constitution, a fortiori its article 1. I urge you to consider what Article 1 would look like, by mistake, we have come to adopt all the proposed additions; It would become a kind of litany, drowning the meaning of the general principles of the keystone of our legal order in a whole series of considerations. On the substance, it is still a way of amputating parliamentary sovereignty, with a principle of uncertain scope. What is a regression? This means that Parliament would be limited in its ability to act, by entrusting the judge with the task of appreciating reality, by relying on expert opinions with sometimes questionable impartiality, so that, at the end of the day, it is the democratic process of deliberation that we would weaken by relying on the experts and the judge. What a paradox, when we are constantly told, on the very benches that make this proposal, that this constitutional revision would be a victory for technostructure! It's up to you, Mr. Jumel, that we owe this projection?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u163	Absolutely! And that's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u164	Figure that following your suggestion would be a real victory if not for technostructure, at least experts and judges. But we want Parliament and democracy to continue to win!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u165	It's Marxist dialectics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u166	That is why we do not want to corse the capacity of Parliament to act, interpret and legislate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, after a long time of work, we are convinced that this drafting, which may be worrying on some benches or seem insufficient on others, does not represent so much a middle ground – a detestable expression, which would mean that we stopped in the middle of the ford – that a balance point makes possible a strong political proclamation, creating an obligation to act and to take up these issues at the highest level of our Constitution. It is therefore a collective step forward, ensuring that parliamentarians who will have to work on these issues tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will be able to act freely to preserve the environment and biodiversity, and to combat global warming. Let's hear about this version and we'll all win it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u167	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u168	[[Smile]] I wanted to speak again for a moment to return to Caesar Ferrand what belongs to him...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u169	After Jupiter, there's Caesar!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u170	...and thank the Committee on Sustainable Development and all the parliamentarians who have worked on this issue. This is a very welcome amendment. Mrs Untermaier, you were telling us right now that you could hear many intellectuals. Do you doubtless read in Le Monde on Tuesday, July 3, 2018 the words signed by Dominique Bourg, Marie-Anne Cohendet, Michel Prieur or Loïc Blondiaux, in short, by scientific leaders in the field of environmental law? According to its subtitle, the inclusion of "environmental protection in the Constitution would represent considerable political and legal progress".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u171	I'm not saying otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u172	You said it, I recognize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u173	But you have to read the entire article!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u174	I wanted to say again: this is an extremely important political step. Legally, I understand that one can question – it is the very nature of the constituent to question each word. And I understand this all the more because the Constitutional Council, to which reference has been made many times here, has sometimes had a certain chill with regard to the climate, by not giving every principle enshrined in the Charter of the Environment the character of a right or freedom guaranteed by the Constitution. This does not mean, contrary to Mr. Jumel's assertion, that he did not recognize their constitutional value, but simply that it is not at the maximum of the legal scale that could have been assumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u175	She's inoperative!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u176	It is not inoperative; Only the precautionary principle is not invoked in support of a priority issue of constitutionality, and I see that this point can be questioned. With regard to the choice of the verb, on which we question ourselves, I do not think it is a question of "guaranteeing"; We do not find ourselves in such a perspective. Guaranteeing that means giving individual rights to one or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u177	That's exactly what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u178	But that is not what we are doing: we are part of a collective policy, which leads us together to move towards climate protection. Nor is it a question of "ensuring", a verb with a fairly static side, agree. On the other hand, I think it is appropriate to "act", this verb reflecting the real collective dynamics we want for our country, the environment, climate and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u179	Let us hope that this dynamic goes in the right direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u180	Finally, Mrs Batho, you asked us why we did not include the notion of constant progress in the Constitution. It goes back to the principle of non-regression, on which we have already spoken. I have already had the opportunity to tell you that this is a principle enshrined in the law; That is why I am not sure that it is useful to raise it to the constitutional level. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Above all, I would like to warn you, as the rapporteur-general has just done. Perhaps I do not know how to put your remark in context and I am making an overly extensive interpretation of it – in this case, you will excuse me – but I think I have noted that you said that Parliament's action should be limited. Such an assertion is quite serious. It seems to me that, in all areas, parliamentary sovereignty must be expressed;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u181	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u182	...it is you, ladies and gentlemen, who have the responsibility to make decisions about the laws that will govern our society! I believe that we cannot limit Parliament's action. It is not to respect parliamentary sovereignty or democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u183	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is already limited by the right to own property and the freedom to undertake!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u184	It's not a political meeting here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Of course, in our legal system, the Constitutional Council is there to ensure respect for the hierarchy of norms, the main principles contained in our Constitution, to play the role of balance, of balancing that ensures the rights of a society of freedoms. But, once again, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Council – it is itself that says so – does not have the same powers of discretion and deliberation as Parliament. I urge you, in all the decisions we make, to return to your primary function, which is to make the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u186	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Normally, I should not give the floor to new speakers. However, given the importance of the subject and the repeated requests of several Members, in order to avoid points of order, exceptionally, I will give the floor to one Member per group. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u187	I will be very brief, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u188	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u189	I forgot to withdraw Amendments Nos 1617, 1625 and 1626 in favour of my three sub-amendments to the amendment by the Committee on Laws. Moreover, for the sake of clarity of the debates, I wanted to say to Mrs La Garde des Seales that the article of the World which she cited, co-signed in particular by Dominique Bourg and Michel Prieur, concerned in fact the drafting proposed by Nicolas Hulot, which included precisely the notions of high level and constant progress. I would therefore not like the article of these eminent experts to be transformed and to be told precisely the opposite of what they have written.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u190	It's not the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u191	Finally, the Basic Law of the Republic sets out a number of principles that are binding on the legislator; That is what we are talking about. For example, would the inclusion we requested in Article 1 of the Constitution have prevented the legislator from having the temptation to question the coastal law? In any event, whatever the result of the votes, I believe that Article 1 will be amended, which will also result in an obligation of action for the Government, which will then be unable to authorize the Montagne d'Or project in Guyana or grant the Total Group permission to import 300,000 tonnes of palm oil into France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u192	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u193	[[Smile]] I discover every day a little more how brilliant you are, madame, the keeper of the seals! But you quote the article by forgetting to read us the end! I will take care of it: "While the Constitutional Council has so far made use of at least the chilly...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u194	I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u195	... of the Charter of the Environment – excluding in particular any recourse to the priority issue of constitutionality for several of its provisions (including biodiversity) – the reform sought by President Macron, through this addition to Article 1 e r of the Constitution, will give parliamentarians, citizens and judges solid points of support for the protection of the environment. But, they add, "there is probably still a need to improve the wording proposed by Nicolas Hulot – for example, to write that the Republic "guarantees" rather than "ensures" a high level of environmental protection." There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u196	Read the last sentence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u197	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u198	[[Smile]] Read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u199	[[Exclaims and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] They end by saying, "But we must first defend an initiative that, for once, is up to the new challenges of the twenty-first century." But it is insufficient and inoperative! It does not bring new rights. And that is what this is about: the brilliant summits you have quoted say that the initiative is generous but that it is not working.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u200	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u201	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] It is true that the rostrum says exactly what Mr. Jumel says. It does not congratulate the Government on its text! In particular, she said that the verb "guarantee" would be better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u202	We are not in a constituent assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u203	Mrs. Keeper of the Seals quoted a rostrum; Listen to her! She says exactly what everyone is going to do: from the moment we have no other choice, we will vote what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u204	It's less worse than if it were worse, like my grandmother would have said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u205	This rostrum also says that you do not take the opportunity to the end, given the urgency of the moment, since the principle of non-regression and the verb "guarantee" should also be included. If you refer to their article, listen to them until the end! You haven't been able to convince us for a while. To guarantee is to ensure the result; to ensure the result, we must act, while the opposite is not true; the guarantee of the result implies the action, whereas the action does not imply the guarantee of the result. You can always try to make us believe the opposite, but telling us that you are acting in favor of something does not mean that you guarantee the result. Mr Ferrand also said that, if we included the word "guarantee", we would, in fact, run counter to the powers of the House. In this case, remove the word "guarantee" from the entire Constitution! Remove it, when she says the law guarantees equality! The Constitution, however, serves well to bind and create obligations towards the public authorities, including the legislature. If we vote for the verb "guarantee", it will mean that the laws we will be voting for in the future will have to have an obligation of result.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u206	Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u207	I'm finishing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u208	Very quickly then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u209	Since we are going to change the Constitution, let us not have, on the question of the environment, the hand that is shaking! Let's live up to the stakes! Let's "guarante" to "act."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u211	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u212	If what is proposed today is good, it is possible to go further. Quite frankly, for our group, this is still insufficient. Of course, we will vote for the amendment, which has been the subject of major discussions in the Committee on Sustainable Development, in the Committee on Laws and, this morning, in the sitting. However, until the text comes back, I hope that we will have made further progress. I am convinced that we are already acting, and we see the result: this year, pollution has increased by 3 per cent again, that is a fact. Yet we are acting: coastal law, biodiversity law, more than 20 texts this last decade, that has already been said. It is time to guarantee the result. That was the subject of our amendments and we will support Delphine Batho's sub-amendments, which propose that you go a little further to force better results. It would be a strong act for France to include this idea in the first paragraph of Article 1e of the Constitution. I understand the problem of the principle of non-regression and will withdraw my amendment, as it is written, to support Mrs Batho's sub-amendments. I believe that integrating biodiversity from an environmental point of view is a necessity, so I will maintain the sub-amendment on this issue. With regard to my amendment, which referred to the concept of people's resilience, I will also withdraw it, since I see that the debate on this issue is far from being concluded. In any event, on the whole, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr General – you were not there earlier, but I asked you first – hear the message that we are addressing you today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u213	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u214	Some give the impression of discovering that the world is burning! I would therefore like to begin my remarks by paying tribute to Jacques Chirac, who said it in 2002 at the Earth Summit: "Our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere", specifically referring to global warming. Let us tell you that on our benches the environmental concern is old and that we can only associate ourselves with this ardent obligation for France, which I believe has particular responsibilities at international level, and it has proved it. Beyond our respective sensitivities, we can find ourselves on this idea. On the other hand, I maintain that the texts proposed to us present a real difficulty. In fact, the original wording, which recognized the particular importance of the environment in article 34, was preferable. I take up the argument of Mrs Custody of Seals, which urged Delphine Batho not to restrict Parliament's powers; Article 34 does not restrict them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u215	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u216	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] By putting this provision in Article 1e rou before Article 1, we are much more strongly opposed. This may not be very serious, but we must take into account the unpredictability of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, to which we give a blank cheque, rather than to the sovereign Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u218	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] In fact, I prefer to rely on the sovereignty of Parliament rather than giving a blank cheque to the Constitutional Council. As Delphine Batho pointed out, this could result not only in the impossibility of carrying out certain projects in Guyana – I am delighted and applauded by both hands – but also in revising the coastal law to fill some hollow teeth. We therefore go far beyond this, hence the interest of issuing alerts and reservations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u219	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u220	The New Left Group will vote for the amendment which was adopted by the Committee on Laws unanimously, that is, by all Commissioners and not only by those of the majority. I withdraw a number of our amendments, but I maintain No. 2392, which corresponds to the will initially expressed by Nicolas Hulot, and Subamendment No. 2507 to the amendment of the Committee on Laws. In conclusion, I thank the rapporteur-general and the minister for the comments they have made, clarifying their position. I find the debate to be of good quality; We have not been able to convince you and we take note of it. On the other hand, according to your remarks, the parliamentary debate clearly endorses the fact that the term "act" is equivalent to the term "guarantee" or "ensure",...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u221	No, I didn't say it was equivalent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u222	...and even more: let him force us to act. We therefore note this considerable progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u223	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1812 and 2352.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u224	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 328 and 1718.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u225	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1416.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u226	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u227	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1417.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u228	We have just adopted Amendment No. 328 from the Committee on Laws: I think that we have collectively done a useful job by incorporating in the Constitution the concepts of preserving the environment and biodiversity, and combating global warming. With Amendment No 1417, it is a matter of ensuring that, in the preservation of our planet, the reverse is not possible. Our objective is clear: to include the principle of non-regression in the Constitution, in order to protect our fellow citizens from possible temptations on the part of future legislators to reconsider certain achievements, in particular the one we have just voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u229	I have before me four amendments, Nos 1074, 1561, 1814 and 2353, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1074 and 1561 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 1814 and 2353. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1074.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u230	We suggest that the Constitution should include the fact that the Republic protects and promotes common property. In essence, it seems to us that the essential elements of life – water, land and seeds – should not be treated as ordinary commodities, and that it is therefore the responsibility of the State to guarantee and protect these collective assets. We are particularly aware of the problem of land, a combat ground between natural, agricultural and urban lands. The difficulty lies in the fact that the development of land is essentially a matter for the market. If the right to property cannot be called into question, however, we must fight against land speculation. In Corsica, we are particularly sensitive to this problem, which strikes us every second. That is why, among other things, we are proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u231	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 1561.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u232	It is in line with those who have just been adopted. If this debate is to take place at the level of the fundamental text, it is simply because the current economic system proceeds to a galloping commodification of goods that provide vital basic services to the people: water, land, seeds. We believe it is important for the Republic to make progress on this issue by including in the Constitution the guarantee, protection or promotion of these common assets, i.e. to seek, by law, ways and means of regulating, on grounds of general interest, their democratic management. This does not mean that property rights are called into question, but a balance must be struck to ensure that the serious disruptions that occur, with all their negative social, economic and environmental consequences, are brought to an end by the political will manifested in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u233	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1814.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u234	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u235	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 2353.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u236	We propose to give constitutional consecration to the concept of common property, because we must call into question the place occupied today by the right to property and the freedom to undertake, which no longer have limits. For several years, the Constitutional Council has censored articles of environmental or social bills on the pretext of violating the sacrosanct freedom to undertake or the right to own property. In the context of the globalization of markets and the limited capacity of States to intervene, profits and competitiveness are faced with the protection of environmental, health, educational or cultural goods, for the sole benefit of a handful of individuals, an oligarchy that believes that wealth is a cake that can be wasted with impunity. The freedom to undertake and the right to own property, however, clearly limit the collective good. As the Latin poet and philosopher Lucrece said, life is not given in property to anyone, but in use to all. Thomas d'Aquinas, on the other hand, claimed that, in necessity, all goods are common. There are goods which, by their nature, must escape any form of private appropriation, and must be made available to all: they are all the goods necessary to satisfy the basic needs of the human person. That is why we propose, by this amendment, that the Constitution explicitly refers to "global common goods". For several years now, this term has identified critical global issues for the maintenance and improvement of human life: the environment, water, health, biodiversity, security, all goods whose regulation at national and international level represents a major issue of justice and equity. Our country would therefore honour itself by including common goods in its basic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u238	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u240	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u241	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u242	I'm renewing the alert I issued yesterday. The Constitution is a norm that the constitutional judge constantly interprets. With all due respect, the nine people who make up the Constitutional Council are supposed to be the sages of our Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u243	Who are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u244	...have, however, their convictions. Therefore, by adding to the Constitution principles as indefinite, as general, as broadly interpretable as the preservation of common goods, whether global or non-global, the power would be transferred to the judges. I heard Mr Acquaviva earlier asking whether the Republic will accept progress in protecting common goods. But I am not sure that it would make any progress if we adopted such amendments; In any case, democracy would decline, because it would no longer be up to us to define what a common good is: it would be the judge who would decide. If you really want to include the protection of common property in the Constitution, then you should list everything you consider to be a common good. In general, beyond these amendments, I believe that we must ensure that we do not transfer our power to the rue de Montpensier, that is to say to the wise men of the Constitutional Council, which we have done too much in recent years. I have heard several times during our debates that we should protect ourselves in advance from the changes that future majorities might decide. But the changes of majority are precisely the heart of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u246	It is therefore here in Parliament that power must reside: it must not, by ideology, be transferred elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u248	I think that would be bad work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u249	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u250	Mr Lagarde, I was appreciative of the alert you issued yesterday on this subject. But on these amendments, I find that your arguments are – to say so with my words – next to the plate. It is true that today, the wise men of the rue de Montpensier, as you say, exercise political power under the guise of legal considerations. In particular, they give priority to the freedom to undertake, which is not even included in the Constitution, on the pretext of protecting the right to property. From this point of view, the decisions of the Constitutional Council are not balanced. That is precisely why the introduction in the Constitution of the concept of the common good, widely recognized by a number of jurists at the international level, would rebalance our legal system, preventing property rights and the freedom to undertake from going before other rights, for political reasons disguised as legal grounds. I attended the press conference organized by Dominique Potier on the issue of common goods and I have just heard Moetai Brotherson speak on this point. The great question for previous generations in constitutional matters was to guard against the omnipotence of public power, to fight against the possibility of a totalitarian regime, whether in its fascist or communist form. Today, the constitutional work we must do is to protect ourselves from the power of multinationals, the private sector. It is in this area that politics must set limits! In this case, the introduction of common property into the Constitution is therefore not to entrust more power to the Constitutional Council, but rather to withdraw it from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u252	But we should define what a common good is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u253	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u254	I am very pleased to hear, for the second or third time, that the judges of the Constitutional Council give opinions of political opportunity:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u255	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u256	... this remark is worth its weight of gold, and it is worth or may also be worth for other debates, past or future... I understand your legal reasoning, Mr Lagarde, but I regret that there is no substantive debate on common goods.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u257	Give a satisfactory definition of what a common good is, and we'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u258	We have discussed climate change at length, we have talked about the issue of boundaries, we have compared the scope of the verbs "action", which implies an obligation of means, and "ensure", which refers to an obligation of result: on all these points, we have had a fruitful debate. On the other hand, on common goods – water, land, seeds – a subject of proven rupture, we have not had such an in-depth debate. Beyond the legal mechanism, I would have liked to hear substantive proposals on this current problem of as acute a severity as climate change, whose people suffer every day and on which there will be ecological and political struggles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u259	I have before me a series of amendments which can be discussed jointly, Nos 1112, 1271, 1412, 1616, 1411, 2232 and 657. Amendments Nos 1112 and 1271 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 1412 and 1616, and Amendments Nos 1411 and 2232. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 1112.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u260	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u261	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1271.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u262	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u263	On the identical amendments Nos 1412 and 1616, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1412.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u264	If you will, I will at the same time defend Amendment No 1411, which deals with the same subject. While our Constitution does not, of course, prevent equality between men and women, it is not the absolute guarantor, unfortunately the figures of the High Council for Equality between Women and Men are here to remind us of this. Last night, we collectively took a major step by recognizing, in article 1 of our Constitution, the equality before the law of all citizens without distinction as to sex. But it seems to me that we can, that we must go further, by amending the second paragraph of Article 1, which is currently worded as follows: "The law promotes equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elected office, as well as to professional and social responsibilities. » Amendments Nos 1412 and 1411 are intended to replace the word "promotes" with "guarantee" or "assured". We have already discussed the respective merits of these two verbs about the environment. If we propose this change, it is simply because, in terms of parity, we are obliged to acknowledge that the progress made has been under pressure. Let me remind you that it is thanks to the Jospin Acts of 1999 and 2000 on equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elective functions that parity has made enormous progress in all electoral mandates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u265	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1616.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u266	The terms, and more specifically the verbs, which are used in the Constitution are of great importance. It was during the constitutional review of 1999, led by Lionel Jospin, that article 1 of the Constitution included the sentence that allowed the adoption of laws on parity in politics, which was a considerable step forward. However, because of the choice of the verb "favours", this paragraph now reaches its limits. Further progress must be made: a right to equality for women must now be guaranteed. Earlier, we were told that the word "guarantee" applies to rights. We are precisely in this case. That is why I propose, with this amendment, to replace, in the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Constitution, the words "the law shall promote equal access" with the words "the law shall guarantee equal access", which implies an obligation of result. This would be an important step forward for women's rights and equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u267	On the identical amendments Nos 1411 and 2232, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pires Beaune has already tabled Amendment No 1411.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u268	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u269	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 2232.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u270	It is a matter of transforming a simple empowerment of the legislator to act in favour of parity into a genuine constitutional guarantee. Words have a meaning, even more so when they are included in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u271	You're gonna have to leave your place, then, Mr. Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u272	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor to support Amendment No. 657.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u273	This amendment is the result of the information report of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women on this constitutional bill, which, I would remind you, was adopted unanimously. The amendment seeks to strengthen the principle of parity in the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Constitution. Municipal councillors, mayors, departmental councillors, regional councillors, MPs, MPs and senators, ministers: since the introduction of parity, women have appeared everywhere in French politics. But what do they still want, maybe you're wondering? What we want is an equal sharing of the power of representation and the power of decision-making; What we want is real and effective parity. While women have gradually entered political life, since the 1944 order granting them the right to vote and to stand for election, they are still very little represented. The reform of parity was imposed by the Act of 6 June 2000, following the amendment of the Constitution. In 2008, a new constitutional review reaffirmed this principle in article 1 of the Constitution and extended it to professional and social responsibilities. Several laws have been enacted over the years. Despite this progress, which is strikingly reflected in the composition of our Assembly since the last parliamentary elections, it must be noted that women's equal access to electoral mandates and elected office is not yet fully effective: only 17 per cent of regional presidents, 10 per cent of departmental presidents and 16 per cent of mayors are women. We must go further by explicitly guaranteeing the principle of parity in our Constitution. To this end, we propose, by this amendment, to reformulate the second paragraph of Article 1 of our Constitution by replacing the words "the law favours" with the phrase "France assures", in order to enhance the scope of the principle of equal access of women and men to electoral mandates and elective functions. Replace the word "encourage" with the word "ensure" in order to move from an obligation of means to an obligation of result.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u274	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u275	These amendments seek to ensure that the law "guarantees" rather than merely "encourage" equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elected office. The addition of the second paragraph of article 1 of the Constitution by the 1999 Constituent and its amendment by the 2008 Constituent were intended to enable the legislator to adopt provisions promoting a balanced representation of women and men in politics and in the professional environment, in the form of positive discrimination. Pires Beaune rightly cited the laws adopted at the initiative of the then Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin. It is therefore a matter of devoting an instrument, parity, to the service of an objective, equality. First, replacing the word "promotes" with the word "guarantee" would indeed weaken the adoption of such provisions, which were necessary to achieve maximum equality between women and men. Second, paragraph 3 of the preamble to the 1946 Constitution already states: "The law guarantees women, in all fields, equal rights to those of men. As much as the law can guarantee equality of rights, which is already the case and will also be so with the new wording proposed in Article 1, so much so that it cannot guarantee de facto equality, but only foster it. Thirdly, to provide that the law guarantees or ensures equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elected office seems somewhat unrealistic, even in the light of the different methods of voting in force. It would be necessary, for example, to provide for joint meetings for the election of deputies or to organize the alternation between a man and a woman in the Presidency of the Republic! Therefore, if I share, ladies and gentlemen, your concern about the considerable progress that remains to be made, and to which we have contributed collectively again yesterday, it is probably not an amendment to the Constitution that would change things, but rather – and we still have a long way to go, I gladly concede – more demanding legislative provisions and, on the other hand, a change in practice. That is why the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u277	It is also unfavourable on all of these amendments. First of all, I would like to recall that the Government fully shares the objectives set out by the authors in the summary presentations, and the public policies implemented attest to this. Secondly, it cannot be denied that, contrary to the use of the words "acts for" or "assured", which we have already discussed, it is certain that between "promotes" and "guarantee", there is a clear difference in legal scope. Indeed, in the context of its a priori control, the Constitutional Council ensures a reconciliation between a guaranteed principle and a mechanism which sets an objective, and as such leaves room for manoeuvre to the legislator, whereas, in the context of its ex post facto control, a provision which "guarantees" will clearly allow the triggering of a QPC, contrary to a provision which only "favours". However, the choice of the verb "encourage", which emerged from the 1999 constitutional revision and was maintained during the 2008 constitutional revision, did not prevent Parliament from taking action to ensure real equality between women and men, including through so-called "positive discrimination" measures. Last but not least, you adopted yesterday an amendment to Article 1e r which prohibits discrimination on the grounds of sex. It seems to me that this renders unnecessary the other developments proposed by these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u278	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u279	We fully share the Government's view, but would not like it to be interpreted as not moving in the direction of women's cause. However, this is both a legal problem and a means of achieving the objective set. Mr Ferrand has clearly shown this with regard to elected office, an area where real equality would even be contrary to the principle of freedom: in a deliberative assembly, can anyone be forced to become mayor, president of a regional council or a departmental council, this non-candidate person being appointed on the basis of sex? I would add that in professional matters we would face fundamental difficulties. For example, in medicine, could the eligibility criteria for competitions be determined on the basis of sex and not on the basis of competence? This could even, in certain professions, such as the judiciary, where the rate of feminization far exceeds 50 per cent, immediately turn against women: should a number of magistrates be deprived of the right to exercise in order to restore parity with men? I believe that real equality is a laudable wish which is a good feeling but which, unfortunately, is at least difficult to implement in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u280	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u281	I thank the keeper of the seals of her answer because she recognized the importance that, by its consequences, especially for the QPCs, the substitution of the verb "guarantee" to the verb "promotes". The progress of yesterday, by which any distinction based on sex will be prohibited, must be welcomed, but it has nothing to do with what is now being discussed since it is a matter of dealing with the division of power, of a situation in which 53% of citizens are citizens, but where access to power in all its forms – political, economic, cultural, etc. – remains largely to be shared. That is the basis of my amendment. If it is only written that "the law favours", it is tantamount to allowing political parties, for example, not to respect parity, even to pay a fine, whereas if one writes that "the law guarantees", all would be obliged to respect parity. That would be the concrete consequence of the adoption of my amendment. Similarly, in the area of professional equality, a law which merely favours favours only, theoretically, the payment of a fine – which is very rarely required – to companies which do not respect it, whereas the constitutionalised guarantee of equality would represent a step forward with absolutely certain consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u282	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u283	I will reply to Mr Becht, who has invited us to pay careful attention, considering that this amendment could discriminate against women when they are the most numerous. Gender equality must be understood in both directions: parity is an equal number of men and women; It's not for us to have the upper hand. Already in committee, the rapporteur told me that, as in Spain today, there could be a government with more women than men: no, equality between men and women is the same number of men as women, not a higher number of women. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our group proposes to strengthen the existing obligation; It is a matter of ensuring, as Mrs Batho said, that people who do not play the game of gender equality, who do not play the game of gender equality, will be punished on the basis of a constitutional principle. It must be properly enshrined in the Constitution. No one knows what tomorrow will be done. Of course, the recent parliamentary elections have shown that many political movements have changed the way they do things, hence the increase in the number of women on these benches, but we are never immune. Therefore, guaranteeing in writing this right to equality in the Constitution is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u284	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u285	The rapporteur-general did not attend, but I would like to ask him for some clarification on the consequences of the use of the word "guarantee" in this sentence. However, I invite all my colleagues to ask themselves: what would be the impact on electoral laws, for example on the law of our assembly? In order to guarantee equal access, i.e., to fulfil an obligation of result, our next electoral law should provide for either full proportional representation, with parity imposed on the lists, or the reservation of a number of constituencies to women's candidatures and others to male candidatures – in a particular constituency, candidates would be prohibited from one of the sexes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u286	You're forgetting the binominal election!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u287	I could be told that it would not be so serious since we can run anywhere in France for the legislatures, but that would not solve the difficulty at the global level, and all other existing or future electoral laws would face the same difficulty. Finally, while the reference to professional responsibilities introduced in 2008 seems to me to be quite wise, Olivier Becht did not say that there was a need for more men than women in certain professions, but that it would be necessary, if one of these amendments were adopted, to fire men to put women, because it would not be enough to increase the number of women in order to achieve parity, and in other cases, for example in the judiciary, to do the opposite. Be careful because "guarantee" means that justice can impose what is guaranteed, while the term "promotes", innovation of 1999 to which I adhere, allows us to move forward by going further than the current law. For the situation is still not perfect: if there are many more women in the National Assembly today, it is rather, let me say it, because of the emergence of a new political force without outgoing deputies than gender equality laws!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u288	We did our part of the job anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u289	In this regard, replacing the word "promotes" with the word "guarantee" would impact, for example, the next renewal of this assembly, whether it be through the 100% proportional – some would be delighted, but I am not "proportionalist" at this point – or the prohibition to appear in such a constituency because of her gender. I am no longer sure that in these cases the principle of equality of all before the law would still be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u291	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u292	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor, after which we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u293	A third option would be to apply the cantonal voting system to the legislatures; One deputy for every 500,000 inhabitants!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u294	I would like to say to Mr Lagarde that there is still another solution: the binominal vote as well as the departmental elections. Since the number of parliamentarians must be reduced, all this could be organized within the framework of the future organic law. We therefore maintain our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u295	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1412 and 1616.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u296	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1411 and 2232.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u297	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 1413.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u298	I regret, Madam President, that you have cut me off on the issue of common goods, but I understand the need to organize the debate. Madam Keeper of the Seals, it was in 1945, exactly seventy-three years ago, that women acquired the right to vote; the first elections in which the 12 million women were able to express themselves were the municipalities, and then, the following year, thirty-three women will be elected to the National Assembly. I give these chronological indications to note that it is not so far away and that it has taken a very long time to establish and even impose parity in some elections, and this has been achieved gradually. That is why I believe that we can put what we want in the Constitution but that if, behind it, there are no positive discrimination measures in favour of women – but also, under other conditions and in other cases, in favour of other categories of citizens – we will not succeed. This is why this amendment proposes to go a little further than Article 1e of the Constitution: "The law promotes equal access for women and men to electoral and elected office, as well as to professional and social responsibilities. Indeed, we need to broaden this theme. Of course, you will answer to me that the place and time are wrongly chosen to include such a provision in the Constitution. This is an appeal amendment that seeks to challenge public opinion and national representation on the need to extend, as far as possible, this right to equality of women to other sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u300	My dear colleague, I fully agree with your appeal amendment: it is indeed a question of promoting equality between men and women in all fields: political, social, cultural, associative life, etc. If we can only associate ourselves with your wish, you know very well, however, that yesterday we included the objective that you are pursuing in Article 1 e r of our Constitution, since it now includes equality between men and women. You also know that, in our legislation, this equality is guaranteed by other texts. From now on, the fight is no longer a constitutional struggle: it must be carried out through our public policies and every citizen must seize it in order to achieve real equality. The committee's unfavorable opinion therefore concerns only the form: it seems to me that in our Constitution we have the necessary elements to carry out this fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u302	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u303	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u304	On the subject we are dealing with now, equality between women and men, as well as that of earlier, I hear the argument that we would have a complete legal arsenal. I'm not completely sure, and even if that were the case, we can see, anyway, that blind spots remain. Our colleague Delphine Batho, I believe, cited as an example the proportion of female mayors, which is 17% or less. This is even worse in EPCI executives, intercommunal co-operation institutions: less than 8% of communities of communes and urban communities are presided over by a woman! So we can see that there is a problem. As a general rule, legislators are skilled in finding solutions. And there are some: just now, our colleague Jean-Christophe Lagarde spoke of the full proportion for the election of Members. First of all, I think it would be a good idea, but it's a personal opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u305	Very personal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u306	There is another solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u307	[[Smile]] The draw?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u308	[[Exclaims on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] No, it's a two-round binominal vote. Why not? You will tell me that this would result in very large constituencies. No, the number of inhabitants will remain exactly the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u309	The ridings will be twice as large! You only know Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u310	You should listen to me until the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u311	You want a deputy for 500,000 people?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u312	Colleagues, listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u313	Of course, each constituency will be twice as large, but the number of inhabitants per representative will be the same; That would be the same. Until recently, men's political staff have been very skilful when it comes to removing women from power. It seems to me that we could change our paradigm and show the same skill to allow women to have access to power today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, at the initiative of the President of the National Assembly, you are all invited, as well as your collaborators, to participate in a short video designed to encourage the French football team in the run-up to the World Cup final. The filming will take place in the courtyard of honour as soon as the session is adjourned and the video will be broadcast on the social networks of the National Assembly. We shall therefore adjourn the sitting after the vote on this amendment. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u315	Yesterday, we amended the first paragraph of article 1 of our Constitution to recognize "the equality before the law of all citizens without distinction as to sex". However, our fundamental law must guarantee women real rights. Mrs Untermaier, I would like to thank our colleague Serge Letchimy for defending this appeal amendment. In any case, on the issue of equal pay and remuneration rights, we are far from the objective. Indeed, while the law already imposes this equality, the wage difference between men and women is, depending on the field of activity, between 15 and 25 per cent. With regard to elective functions, all the systems of compulsory parity that had been put in place had demonstrated that, where they did not exist, there were sacred differences in the presence of women in those functions. In Polynesia, for example, our assembly has been joint for more than 15 years now, which has indeed allowed women to be elected. It was a fight, I assure you: at the beginning, of course, people were criticizing the new system, and it was sometimes done at the expense of women, since they were considered to owe their seats only to parity. Today, I assure you that all this is no longer relevant at all: parity is obvious, and I am sure – in any case I wish – that if it were to be abolished, it would naturally continue. We must therefore, in my view, encourage equal rights and equal pay, which must not only be promoted, but also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u316	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u317	I will reply in particular to our colleague Olivier Becht. The work of the delegation to women's rights, which covers a wide range of subjects, whether it be the science community or the armed forces, has confirmed to us that the suspicion of incompetence on women persists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u318	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u319	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u320	I believe that the comments you have made in this House reinforce the same suspicion which regularly weighs on women. Political power and economic power were organized by men for men.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u321	Exactly! We should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u322	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The reality is that today, in the 21st century, 53% of French women rightly want to participate in these two powers. However, it is not by regularly placing a suspicion of incompetence on women that young girls who listen to us will be able to seize the opportunities available to them. I therefore wish to draw the attention of all the men who sit in this assembly: do we regularly question, both in business and in the National Assembly, the competence of men?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u323	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u324	On the other hand, the question of women's competence is always raised: let us ask ourselves about it! Without the Copé-Zimmermann law, for example, the boards of directors of our companies would not have 40% women. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and GDR groups]] I would therefore like to say to all the young women and girls who are listening to us this morning that their place is in the political and economic decision-making centres, and that men and boys will not shade them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u325	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u326	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u327	This debate is important. Listening to the two speakers earlier, I found that we were facing a real problem. I recalled the seventy-three years that separate us from the first election in which the French took part. We fully agree on the principle. I think you feel it, if only with your daughters, your mother and, for the men who sit here, with your wife: weighs on them, mechanically, systematically, a suspicion of incompetence. This is accompanied by a persistent sense of social contempt but also of human inferiorization. It is therefore not a small subject but an extremely important one. The question we ask ourselves is: how do we respond to these problems? Mr. Lagarde was concerned about the problems of legal organization in areas where there were more men than women, or the other way around. It has absolutely nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u328	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u329	... when human dignity is attained. We will indeed find solutions. In this case, we are debating a constitutional bill, and more specifically, whether we are putting more into it, in order to achieve more results. We all agree on the need to speed up the process, but the central question is: how to do it? Today, I believe that the Republic and the Constitution reject the principle of what can be called positive obligations – I will even go a little further by talking about positive discrimination. Do they allow us to go further, especially in the area of common goods, in a society in which inequalities are growing inversely proportional to the wealth that is being created? Do they allow us to do so when inequality and poverty have reached a more than worrying level? The question also arises about social and racial discrimination: do we want to take positive measures, yes or no, to ensure that a suburban youth is treated in the same way as another young person coming from elsewhere? As far as women are concerned, it is exactly the same. Therefore, while I have heard the arguments of the keeper of the seals and the rapporteur, I maintain, as a matter of principle, Amendment No 1413.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u330	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u331	I would like to say a few words to our colleague on the question of competence: we obviously share his concern. You rightly pointed out that it was the law that our former colleague Marie-Jo Zimmermann, together with other members of our group, took the initiative to advance parity on the boards of directors. So you can see where we are. I would reply by Françoise Giroud's excellent boutade in 1983: "The woman would truly be equal to the man on the day when, in an important position, an incompetent woman would be appointed. She had summed things up perfectly. In any event, I would like to add a lot of elements in our Constitution, but it seemed to me that we wanted to avoid it being chatty – the rapporteur-general was holding things up so that they would not go in every direction. On all benches, we all share the same observation. I am the father of several daughters, and I do not see why, when they enter the labour market, they would be paid less than their brothers. The debate seems to me to be closed: with article 1 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, the third preambular paragraph of the 1946 Constitution and article 1 of the 1958 Constitution, all the legal elements are gathered so that the whole is truly constitutionalised, belted and strapped! The rest does not depend on the Constitution, but on us as legislators, on how we apply the Constitution and what we do on a daily basis, in our work as legislators, to change the state of opinion and society, which is indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u332	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u333	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] That is what will make it possible to advance real equality and not just formal equality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u334	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u335	With regard to this amendment and the debate – which in the end always deals with the same issue – which we have had for quite some time on the question of verbs guaranteeing, favouring and acting, if we choose to guarantee the verb, the obligation of result, as Mr Lagarde explained to us, would force us to take decisions aimed at achieving perfect equality between men and women in this House. This would also, it seems, force us to alternate in the office of President of the Republic a woman and then a man, and so on. I note that, while equality before the law is deemed to be guaranteed, we are often far from it. The use of the verb "guarantee" in the Constitution induces an obligation of result but not necessarily, and it is a pity, that it is always working. On the other hand, it is undeniably stronger that the verb "favours". When, earlier, on the subject of the environment, we asked ourselves about the terms "acts for" or "guarantees", I reread Article 1e r and was surprised that the word least involving, "promotes", was reserved for equality between men and women. The Constitution must impose more obligations on legislators because we are far from the point of view, because we are even in the midst of a decline in professional matters. That is why we support the word "guarantee".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u337	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u338	I would simply like my remarks not to be misinterpreted, ladies: I have never called into question the competence of women and, if I have quoted the examples of magistrates and doctors, it was precisely so that tomorrow we would not recruit, in the public service competitions in particular, women on quotas, and that we would not favour the criterion of sex over that of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u339	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u340	I am very pleased that there are more women among magistrates or doctors. I'd rather be treated by a more competent female doctor than a man and I'd be happy to be tried by a more competent female magistrate than a man because she passed the competitions. That is the competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u341	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-13-E1014.u342	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the constitutional bill for a more representative, accountable and effective democracy. The meeting is adjourned.
