ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law by Mr Eric Coquerel and the members of the La France group who are insoubted about the introduction of a receipt in the context of an identity check (No. 520, 593).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Mr Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context of known and proven discrimination, particularly marked in the working-class districts, the proposal for a law on the establishment of a receipt in the context of an identity check resonates for us as evidence, but above all as a necessity. As my colleagues have pointed out, the Court of Cassation has attested to the reality of the checks in the face, even though they are not the subject of any official figures. The survey, which confirms that young men between eighteen and twenty-five years of age perceived as black or Arabic are twenty times more likely than the rest of the population to be subjected to identity checks, invites us to legislate and to wage an unbridled fight against discrimination. Too many identity checks are face checks, the fact is established, but I have heard colleagues deny this reality. Not to legislate would be to deny, by not taking into account, by not fighting it, an injustice also constituted by the impossibility, for citizens who are victims of discrimination, to win a case before the courts. The omerta harms everyone: the victims, who feel too often despised, but also the police, accused of enjoying a manifest impunity. We cannot resign ourselves to seeing today, in our country, such inequalities linked to the colour of the skin. It is about the future of our youth, about our trust in a just, supportive and protective Republic. All the arguments that highlight the complexity of the proposed procedure, its administrative burden, constitute an additional humiliation for those who are humiliated. As for the arguments based on the confidence in principle that must be shown to the police institution, those who put them forward do not understand the problem we are facing. We are talking about discrimination, which means that such a situation does not, of course, affect society as a whole. On the other hand, in the working-class neighbourhoods, the level of mistrust is the same in the population and in the police: the police are as wary of the population as the population is wary of them, which must alert us. The current controls contain, as we see, too many weaknesses. Thus, the individual cameras carried by the agents are recording devices operated manually by the police officer, when the latter deems it necessary, which introduces into the device a portion of arbitrary. I would add that the request for the police officer's number by the controlled person is still subject to too much hazard; At times, agents simply refuse to wear their numbers, but this has become mandatory. On the other hand, the identity check receipt, which has already been tested, has proved its effectiveness in many countries. In the opinion of the police officers who have experienced it, it allows them to focus on essential tasks, useful to all: spinning, investigations or traffic regulation. Moving forward towards this measure of justice – a promise that, by virtue of being betrayed, eventually looks like an insult – is also a move towards a renewed relationship between the police and citizens. We all aspire to it. This obviously requires resources, but not only. It is also a matter of deciding which police we want. The communist group, for its part, resolutely chooses a police force that will be respected because it respects everyone, because it serves in a universal and impartial manner. This is a crucial issue both for public peace and for social cohesion. I believe that is part of the role that our police and our Republic must play. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Restoring trust is our only way, for the escalation of mistrust will only bring new humiliations but also new dramas that plunge families into horror and injustice. Opening up to society, opting for an independent evaluation, this is a social debate that can be initiated by experimenting with the receipt. To vote for this bill is therefore to act for equality, and it is also to have the ambition of a police that is effective enough to protect all. Restoring confidence will take time, we must be lucid on this point. So let's not lose it, and let's start right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u4	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our colleagues in France who have been unsuspecting, propose that we discuss a proposal for a law aimed at setting up on an experimental basis a receipt of identity checks in order to combat the repeated checks to which some of our fellow citizens would systematically be subjected. In the explanatory memorandum, our colleagues explain that this receipt would meet the need to establish traceability of controls. Such a proposal has already been made, and on several occasions, but it has always been rejected or abandoned, rightly. Indeed, the fear that this receipt, constituting a totem of immunity that individuals could brandish in order to avoid further justified controls, would be a mechanism of distrust towards our law enforcement agencies, justified and justified today still that we refuse to implement it. Whether there have been and continue to be irregular and/or motivated identity checks, we do not contest it, far from it. But let us not want, with this proposal, to generalise them, and above all, on the contrary, let us avoid the trap of stigmatization! On the contrary, we must all send a positive message. Today I dare to bet on trust and believe that, for several months now, the relationship of trust between citizens and law enforcement has been restored. And that is where we will fail if we, the representatives of the nation, by our words, are to return to the evils that we all condemn. Let us not let ourselves be led to think, by allowing the controlled to control the controller, that we doubt, that we defy those who have the essential and primordial mission of protecting ourselves and ensuring our safety! I would like to point out that the legal framework for identity checks is defined and regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, and clarified and reiterated by case law. To say that the receipt must allow citizens who feel that they are discriminated against to have a material basis to prove that they are being controlled too repeatedly is to deny recent decisions on case law. What is more, it deliberately omits to say that our fellow citizens already have the right and the means to ester, and it is also to pretend to maintain tensions that we wish to calm down. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that these legal arrangements pre-exist with your proposal. First, the framework for identity control of the administrative police or the judicial police is perfectly defined by article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which requires, in order to justify the control, " plausible grounds for suspecting" or suggesting that the controlled person has committed or is going to commit an offence, or has participated or is going to participate in it. This control is intended to prevent attacks. Consequently, officials are obliged to indicate the reason for the inspection when it gives rise to a procedure. Secondly, the case law has taken note of the problem and, as such, has already reacted, notably on 9 November 2016, when the Court of Cassation ruled that discriminatory controls constitute a serious fault committed by the State, which then bears the burden of proving that there is no discrimination during a check. The receipt would therefore constitute a reversal of the burden of proof, without probative relevance within the meaning of the case law. This does not mean a contrario that the police or gendarmes are free. Already in 1993, the Constitutional Council considered that any identity checks should be justified, since police officers must justify "special circumstances establishing the risk of a breach of public order", adding to this in 2017 that "it is the responsibility of the competent courts to censor and punish the illegalities that would be committed and possibly to provide compensation for their harmful consequences". So how can we not think that this receipt will be part of a spiral that will exacerbate tensions by diverting control of its interests and of the validity of its objectives, by allowing, I repeat, the controlled to control the controller? You would like to take the risk of inverting responsibility, as the law enforcement agencies must justify that they operate control to prevent disorder to public order. More damaging and implausible would be the situation which would certainly arise from this receipt in the course of a judicial investigation. Can you imagine this incongruous situation, not to say perfectly ubiquitous: the police or gendarmerie forces must, in order to issue an admissible receipt, indicate as their motivation some of the elements of investigation, elements of suspicion which, in this case, are of course the same reasons which justify the initiation of a procedure and of course the verification of identity! Unrealistic and dangerous! Let me therefore doubt the relevance and value of such a form, unless you want to provide troublemakers with procedural means and mechanisms to obstruct justice. This receipt could become so, because nothing is confirmed as to its real scope. The lack of motivation would be a cancelled check; A cancelled check is a flawed procedural act. A flawed procedural act, however, is too much risk when the culprit is a culprit. On the other hand, of course, we must work to make identity checks more legible. Certainly, we must ensure that we sanction perverted acts, whoever the perpetrator is, when they exist and persist. But let us beware that by imposing an additional administrative formalism and a form of trophy receipt, we did not give bail to the culprits and we did not require the authority to pass the hand in matters of security!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We must work with continuity – because it would be wiser to give us time to appreciate and evaluate the testing of controls before prejudging them – and above all, ladies and gentlemen, to maintain full confidence in our law enforcement forces, in accordance with our republican principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u8	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when, as some would say, one must choose one's side. And obviously, not all of us here are from the same side. Mine is security, security forces and brave people, honest people. What does this bill propose to us, behind a rhetoric that we know by heart, consisting of always apologizing to those who never apologize, and looking for lice in the head to those who are there to help us and protect us? This text proposes the setting up of a receipt during the identity checks, at the very moment, allow me to raise it, where the forces of law and order have to deal with a resurgence of the attacks which have upset not only the police, but France, that of the honest people, precisely. A two-part receipt, in order to avoid misappropriation of the controlled persons, to allow appeals to the general inspection of the national police and not to violate the sacrosanct rules of the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms. In short, let's be clear, a receipt that sounds like a presumption of guilt towards our police officers, suspected of being potential offenders, since they are always presumed to have been tempted by these checks to the face of which they would be subjected to controlled always white as snow, that goes without saying. Last week, I accompanied police officers in their night shift. They carried out identity checks, of course, against people of all skin colors, I assure you, and bingo: there was 100% success! All those who were checked had something to blame, from driving without a permit or insurance to possession of narcotics! Small offenses, you'll tell me; But it's still a crime! The receipts you are asking for would constitute no more than a little more bureaucracy, at a time when all citizens and policemen aspire to see our forces of law and order rid of this paperwork, which keeps them far too far from the ground. While I am not concerned about the outcome of the bill's vote, I am concerned about what it is driving: first, I said it and I say it again, a real suspicion, a barely veiled mistrust of our police officers, but also a lie. As if the police could act as they wished, as if they were not regulated by law. But, as you know – or rather, you pretend not to know – the Constitutional Council and the European Court of Human Rights have dealt with this issue. And when there are abuses, they are repressed, the minister recalled it earlier. As for the Internal Security Code, it already states that "the police officer or gendarmerie does not rely on any physical characteristics or distinctive signs to determine the persons to be controlled": it is difficult to make it clearer! But, obviously, this is not yet enough for the authors of this text. Obstructing the work of the law enforcement agencies does not disturb them; throwing reproach on the law enforcement agencies does not disturb them. They have only one word in their mouth: we should not "humiliate", they say, the possible innocent victim of an abominable control in the face! But humiliating peacekeepers...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u10	Don't forget the gendarmes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u11	Of course! Humiliating peacekeepers and gendarmes by always doubting their probity, their professionalism, they don't have any problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u12	Fascist rhetoric!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u13	On this side, no state of soul! So, even though I am attracted to the lightnings of our "rights-of-the-hommists" of the salon – or rather of the assembly – I will answer them that being controlled when we have done nothing, when we have nothing to blame, does not seem to me to violate freedoms, but is, on the other hand, very useful in ensuring our safety. Yes, definitely, we're not in the same camp!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u15	And we're proud of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u16	Our police officers need freedom, efficiency, not constraints. They need to be trusted; They need us to be by their side. Should I also remind you of the number of suicides in their ranks? Last week, I told you, I was with police officers from Béziers. They are called Philippe, Bruno, Mohamed, Jean-Michel – the first names are true, you can check. On the walls of some quarters, their names can be read, accompanied by death threats. Two weeks ago, Guillaume, a municipal policeman, got hit by a thug in a car and was seriously injured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u17	What does that have to do with it, ma'am?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u18	The risks of the trade, will you tell me? All are honest men, respectful of the laws, at the service of their fellow citizens, true supporters of the Republic and our security. I don't know you, but I'm absolutely on their side!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u19	Unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u20	Affrontations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u21	All my information is checked!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u22	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is based on a central argument with which we are all – or almost all of us – in agreement here: any discrimination in the context of identity checks is unacceptable. Indeed, it is our responsibility, as representatives of the nation, to prevent situations of abuse and discrimination against our fellow citizens. It is at the heart of our task of monitoring the law to ensure respect for the values of our Republic and, beyond that, to ensure citizen vigilance regarding the protection of fundamental rights. In this regard, it was found that the French police carried out proportionally more identity checks than other police in comparable countries, and that this led to tensions in a part of the population resulting in a sense of discrimination. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us not make mistakes in trying to provide a proactive and effective response to those who suffer from these discriminations. While it is our responsibility to scrupulously ensure respect for fundamental rights, as well as to allocate effective and relevant means of control to this mission, these means already exist and will even be strengthened. We live, let us recall, in a rule of law, and our police are a republican police force.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u24	And the gendarmerie is, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u25	This fundamental starting point must be the premise of our reflection. To say that our police are republican is to say that, as a matter of principle, they do not discriminate, that they are there to protect citizens and ensure public safety. This means, in other words, that non-discrimination is the rule and that discrimination is the exception. When the exception occurs, our rule of law offers every opportunity for redress and sanctions that can respond firmly to such abuses. In my capacity as Commissioner of Finance and Special Co-Rapporteur for the police and gendarmerie budget, I would remind you that significant investments have been made in support of identity checks. The purpose of this bill is to introduce, by means of the receipt, a new control mechanism, which will be added to the many existing mechanisms, or even duplicate them, by pursuing the same objective. Indeed, if the objective is to ensure traceability of the controls and to quantify them, it is already fulfilled by the commissioning of 67000 NeoGend digital tablets and 28000 NeoPol tablets to the law enforcement agencies, whose deployment is expected to increase over the next few years, including a budget of 6 million euros provided for in the Finance Law for 2018. An additional guarantee is provided by the device of the stone-cameras, which are being tested, which will be deployed in areas where conflict situations are more likely to occur. Already, 2800 stone-cameras are being used, and 5000 additional devices will be gradually put into operation. This effort is also reflected in the very philosophy of the daily security police, which has the essence of rebuilding the bond of trust between the police and the population. Our policy aims to address the fight against discrimination in an overall approach, for greater efficiency. This will be made possible by two types of measures: firstly, through budgetary measures and additional means for the security forces, in order to facilitate their security mission, in a climate of high threat and tension; Secondly, by proposing a new paradigm to re-establish the link between police and the population, in which the challenge is to reconsider the police in its primary vocation, namely that of proximity to the population. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is certainly noble, in that it seeks to highlight the imperative of combating discrimination. However, the means that this text proposes are, alas, super-fetative: the addition of a new system, without even mentioning the administrative burdens it will induce, will have no added value. Worse, the proposed scheme will not be effective in combating discrimination. On the contrary, it will help to fuel suspicion between citizens and the forces of law and order, while the stakes of our collective action are precisely the opposite: to create the conditions of appeasement and serenity to ensure the security of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u26	It's working really well! We saw him last weekend in Villeneuve-la-Garenne!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For all these reasons, I call on Members to vote on this motion of rejection and to join their efforts to combat discrimination and to rebuild the bond of trust between the police and the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u28	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, between a fair measure and a demagogical provision, there is only one step, which the introduction of a receipt makes pass some. She comes to put oil on the fire, in an already tense context. Our law enforcement agencies are facing individuals who have professionalized in the use of violence and who intentionally expect the lives of police and gendarmes. They are sometimes terrorists, as in Montrouge in 2015, Magnanville in 2016 or on Avenue des Champs-Élysées last April, sometimes "black blocs" and other militants of the ultra-left mobilities in demonstrations, sometimes members of the gangs organized in urban areas, whose underground economy allows to finance the purchase of increasingly sophisticated and dangerous equipment. While such violence directly targets the physical integrity of police and gendarmes, it is now also directed towards their families; de facto, the implementation of a receipt would increase the danger to the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u30	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u31	It's caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u32	The psychological and physical exhaustion generated by this permanent tension pushes some members of our law enforcement forces to an end, and sometimes leads to slipping. To believe that a receipt would be the appropriate prevention tool for these situations is a mistake, because these phenomena are only the expression of a much deeper ill-being. Your proposal for a law, ladies and gentlemen, deeply ignores the needs of our law enforcement agencies. It ignores the three conditions of a peaceful relationship between the population and the forces of law and order: trust, legitimacy and recognition. The French know this well: the police is the fourth institution in which they have the most confidence, according to the latest survey by the CEVIPOF – Centre de recherches politiques de Sciences Po – published in January. Asserted, trained, our law enforcement agencies have full legitimacy to act to protect our fellow citizens and ensure respect for public order. What is the usefulness of maintaining this oath if we put in place a receipt for each identity check, if we start from the assumption that our law enforcement forces do not honor their oath, that their years of formation do not allow them to exercise their missions with competence, that they are unable to have a proper judgment on the reaction to be adopted according to the diversity of situations they face? To set up a receipt is to soften the idea that any action by a member of our law enforcement agencies is suspicious; It is doubting the ability of our forces of law and order to discern; It's a trial in the incompetence of our peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u33	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u34	As you stigmatize them without ever knowing the reality of their work, I hear, for my part, express my deep gratitude to them. Last week again, I had the opportunity to spend one night with the LAC – Anti-Criminality Brigade – of Roubaix. The members of these teams leave together and children late in the evening to spend one night protecting the civilian population. Their professionalism and dedication, in view of the risks involved and the meagre rewards attached to these demands, must be praised and honoured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u35	So increase the salaries of the police!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u36	So, down from these three imperatives – trust, legitimacy and recognition – your bill, ladies and gentlemen of La France insoubted, intends to institutionalize defiance and undermine the legitimacy of our law enforcement forces. In the end, it does not provide any solution to the appeasement desired by both the police and the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u37	What did you do for the police in the 2018 budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u38	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Therefore, we can only oppose this text and invite you to work alongside us to establish a daily security police, close to the citizens, allowing the full fulfilment of the duties and tasks for which every police officer, every gendarmerie, is sworn in.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u40	The general discussion is closed. I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u41	Colleagues, the comments that have just been made had different tones – fortunately, I would say. A first group of speakers denied any discrimination: Mr Masson, Mrs Ménard, Mrs Osson and – I was a little disappointed – Mrs Vichnevsky. These colleagues have also tried to introduce us, demagogically, as subjects of an anti-flic reflex. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] Mr Masson, I repeat, you came from a party that supported Mr Sarkozy, which abolished 13,000 police posts, the community police and credits for the police. I therefore find your remarks to be a bit of coffee and insulting to the police forces, which you claim to be the spokesperson for. You play a demagogic game trying to convince the police that it would be a besieged force, incapable of evolution. With people like you, Joxe's great training plan, in 1983, would never have passed, because you would have thought insulting that such measures were considered necessary for the police. I want to say to Mrs Vichnievsky – but she is no longer there – that it is equally strong in coffee that a former magistrate considers it normal that a 18-year-old, especially when he has a black or Maghrébin profile, is more controlled than a fifty-year-old mother or a retired woman, on the grounds of the fight against drug trafficking, while 95% of these checks, although Ms Ménard says in her carbulations, do not give any results. I am very disappointed that Mrs Vichnievsky used this discriminatory argument. I thank our colleagues from the NG and GDR groups for their support. On the other hand, other colleagues have not denied the existence of discrimination – The minister herself did not do it either. Some, it is true, have underestimated them, but I explain this by the fact that we – I say we – do not live in the same world as the victims of face checks. Minister, you recognize that discrimination still exists and you list the mechanisms put in place to address it. But I am surprised that you are citing measures decided before Mr Macron's statements during the presidential campaign. If these devices were working, why did he suddenly say that there were too many controls and that they were discriminatory? This reflects the inadequacy of the mechanisms decided to compensate – I would remind you – for Mr Hollande's promises on the introduction of the receipt. If I were mean, Madam Minister, I would say that you are continuing with a counter-truth – as I am not, I will speak of an error – with regard to your analysis of the judgments of the Court of Cassation of November 2016. They do not end by stating that it is for the controlled person to justify that he or she has been discriminated against. This is exactly the opposite: the Court of Cassation considers that it is extremely complicated for a controlled person to prove that she has been discriminated against, if only because, unable to refer to global statistics – control being obviously individualised – it is difficult for her to show that she is not the only one in this case and that it is because she belongs to the category of those who are twenty times more likely, or rather bad luck, to be controlled in our country, for lack of being skin white. Like Mr. Morel-À-L'Huissier, you also consider that " plausible reasons" include "objective and individualized reasons". Again, you are referring to case law, but, I'm sorry, this is not as precise. I refer you to the report: "Jurisprudence has thus admitted that a plausible reason for a person to be a member of the police force is to change direction or sidewalk in the sight of police officers, to mark a time of arrest and a manifest discomfort in the passage of a police vehicle, or to attempt to hide in the way of police officers. On the other hand, it has not been analysed as designating a person to the police force the behaviour of marking a moment of hesitancy at the sight of the police and of speeding up the step or the execution of a sudden turn to the sight of the police". It is clear that all this is very vague, very vague. If you think that plausible reasons include objective and individualized reasons, why not write it in the law? At least things would be clear. We are told that it would take a lot of time. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u42	It's not the only thing you're having trouble understanding...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u43	We have proved it, and no one is contesting it here: most of these controls do not lead to any elucidation. What a waste of time! I also don't understand that we're talking about complexity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you have just passed a law that further complicates the work of all the other officials by asking them for more and more arguments to prove that the offender is in bad faith. But there, since it is about the police, it would be impossible to ask not for more complexity but for a paper, a single paper, because it is the only procedure that does not require it today! In addition, I explained earlier that it could sometimes also give rise to palpations and searches. You're talking about the code of ethics. First and foremost, it sets out principles. In addition, it does not take into account oral recommendations. You also refer to the IGN and IGPN reporting platforms – the general inspections of the National Police and the National Gendarmerie – which are supposed to allow citizens to file complaints. Now, frankly, it's not understanding anything about the reality of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u44	Your ideology blinds you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u45	In the event of extreme violence, the news echoes it and trials are very often initiated. On the other hand, most of the time, what happens to the young people who are humiliated? Earlier, a high school student from Epinay-sur-Seine named Mammadou was here. When he got out of the North Railway Station with his class and teachers, the minister, he got controlled and was palpated, searched and Tutoyed. Usually, when it's controlled, it doesn't say anything. There, he felt it was still not possible to be so controlled, paled and searched in front of his friends; He therefore asked for explanations and the climate began to deteriorate. Fortunately, the teacher intervened. Why am I telling you this? The teachers advised the young person to file a complaint and there will be an investigation. But if these young people had been alone, no complaints would have been filed. Indeed, young people are constantly humiliated in the neighbourhoods – not because of a particular police officer, but because of the system that you persist in maintaining because you do not accept the receipt – and they do not imagine going to a police station where, perhaps, they work with a police officer with whom they have problems and against whom they would have to lodge a complaint. It's so much the rule for them that they don't even trust justice anymore. As for the IGPN platform, you know very well that it was only used 294 times in 2014, as it is of complicated use. Yes, we need something else! A police officer should normally be required to write down the reason for the check. That would have been helpful, Madam Minister, with young Mammadou. Some lawyers got involved in the case. Do you know what your services answered? He was arrested at the exit of the northern railway station because terrorist or drug trafficking risks exist at the exit of Thalys. I'm sorry, but that's something else than an "objective and individualized reason"! If a high school kid goes out with his class, you might think he doesn't have much to do with a terrorist. In this case, there was absolutely no reason for control, and so, unfortunately, there are tens of thousands of others in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So there's a problem, and you answer me: tablets and cameras. If I understood one of your arguments correctly, the paper is not modern. I'm falling for it! If this is the argument to explain your refusal to set up something simple, let's delete all the tickets and other minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u46	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u47	So you offer tablets and cameras. No problem, an experiment is under way, but it is the police officer who activates the camera, which filmes only the controlled person. Contrary to the receipt, it therefore does not allow the latter, possibly, to react to a control which it considers unjustified. You experience GoPro; Why not? But how does it bother you that a few cities experience the receipt, before we all come together, all those – and I heard you did – who think there was a problem? In this way, we would establish the best way of doing things. It's not very complicated and it's not expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u48	The tablets are already recording the controls!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u49	I hear everyone's arguments. Some say that this idea has been proposed many times, that it is an old debate – not so much, by the way, and it is even the first time that an experiment is proposed. But then, let's talk him through an experiment! Without ceasing, ladies and gentlemen, you are referring to missions, experiments which must wait for the results. Well, let's do an experiment whose results are expected by a lot of people! I assure you, hundreds of thousands of young people in working-class neighbourhoods are waiting for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u50	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u51	This is not to question the police or the police; It's just recognizing that a system doesn't work. We have the right to tell the police administration, and I even think that would be beneficial to her. I hope that, after my intervention, you will reject the motion to reject it beforehand, so that we can continue the debate. Finally, Madam Minister, you have stated that the proposed method of experimentation in voluntary cities is not satisfactory. No problem! We want to hear it, but amend the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u52	He'd be inefficient!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We are ready to do it with you, to listen to you, to move forward together. Believe me, many people are waiting for such a measure, including in the police, contrary to what some people are telling us here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u54	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u55	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, you are convinced that your system will solve the problem of discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u56	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u57	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] For my part, I am absolutely not convinced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u58	Let's take a test!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u59	We want an experiment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u60	You start your presentation with a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u61	Can I talk? I listened to the rapporteur! Calm down! If this system were as effective as you say, it would be used in many countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u62	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u63	Only one country has put this system of receipt in place: England.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u64	And Spain!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u65	In Spain, only one city adopted it. Contrary to what you say, there is no evidence of its effectiveness in combating the felony crime, which everyone condemns. You give yourself interpretations, pretending that you are accused, for example, of not defending the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u66	I wasn't thinking about you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u67	But don't accuse us of being in favor of face control!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u68	I never said that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] All right! I appreciate you admitting it! We all recognize here the role of the police and the gendarmerie, and we are against the crime of fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u70	Not all of them! The vast majority of us, but not all of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u71	In my opening remarks, I explained how the police's work was regulated by law, by ethics, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u72	I have given you notice of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u73	Moreover, the police are constantly controlled: by the hierarchy, by the IGN and the IGPN, by the magistrates! In France, there is a legal framework; We are in the rule of law, we must remember. Furthermore, you question the legal analysis of the judgment of the Court of Cassation. Contrary to what you have said, I am sorry: "it is up to the person who claims to be the victim of discrimination to bring facts of fact that would reflect a difference in treatment that would lead to the presumption of discrimination, and, if so, to the administration to demonstrate, either that there is no difference in treatment or that it is justified by objective elements unrelated to any discrimination".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u75	So we agree. It is very good to recognize that I was not mistaken in my analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u76	But you forget the second part of the sentence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u77	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] However, recognize the first part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u78	We can't understand it anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u79	The point, Mr Coquerel, is that we agree. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Same movements]] I mean, you're pretending we're not tranning. Yes, I do! It's not because we don't feel like you that we don't transpire! We are moving in the direction that seems to us legitimate, that seems to us the best, and this is not the first time. You have the right to defend your position but let others have the freedom to have another position. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u80	I have received a motion from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République in motion for a preliminary rejection pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, one of the priority tasks of the State is to ensure security by ensuring, throughout the territory of the Republic, the defence of national institutions and interests, the observance of laws, the maintenance of public peace and order, the protection of persons and property. The national security landscape has changed significantly in recent years and the nature of the terrorist threat has undergone profound changes. Ten years ago, the terrorist ecosystem consisted of organized and complex groups. Today, while the level of this threat remains very high, there is an evolution of the threat, taking the form of individuals or small isolated groups carrying out solitary attacks. As François Molins pointed out last week: "The terrorist threat is more diffuse, more difficult to identify, as it occurs in our home and may be caused by people who are not always known to the intelligence services. It is therefore endogenous and often linked to other forms of delinquency. We can also deplore the links between crime and terrorism manifested through a number of cases, such as that of Mohamed Lamsalak, suspected of his links to the attacks in Brussels in 2016 and involved in drug cases. In addition to this, crime is increasingly present in our daily lives: drug trafficking, theft, burglary, occupation of building halls, incivilities in the streets and, more recently, street harassment for women. While the public road should be a shared space in which everyone respects the rules of life in society, it becomes a space in which coexistence is becoming less and less easy. As a result, the tasks of our law enforcement agencies, because they operate partly on the public highway, are increasingly complex, and the authority of police officers and gendarmes struggles to assert themselves in some of our neighbourhoods. This creates a feeling of insecurity among our fellow citizens and gives the image of public impotence. Putting relations between law enforcement and the public at the heart of the parliamentary debate is not only a necessity but also a need in view of the particularly difficult security environment that I have just recalled. Our majority and our Government have not hidden their willingness to conduct in-depth reflection in this regard. I am pleased that the Government has embarked on an evolution of police and gendarmerie missions to respond to the priority of the French, security. In this sense, the finance law that we passed last December strengthens the human resources of the internal security forces, with an additional 2,000 jobs on the ground. New training modules will also be implemented. The budget, which is on the rise, will be preserved for the years to come. Admittedly, the security environment is difficult, and a sense of distrust has developed in some sensitive neighbourhoods between law enforcement agencies and residents. It should be noted, however, that this feeling is not the norm, far from it, contrary to what the explanatory statement in the bill suggests. As has already been pointed out, CEVIPOF notes that 78% of French people trust the police, and I point out that this percentage has increased by 3 points compared to 2016. However, it is not because only 9% of the French do not trust the police at all that certain realities must be obscured. Identity checks have been a controversial issue for several years, especially in sensitive neighbourhoods, where controls can sometimes cause stress or even abuse. The Group of the European People's Party is very committed to ensuring that such discriminatory, unacceptable practices do not tarnish the image of our law enforcement forces and undermine the freedom of our fellow citizens. Discrimination, whether related to sexual orientation or identity, religious beliefs, sex, age, skin colour, is not a part of our society, and even less so in institutions representing republican and secular values. Nevertheless, I want to keep in mind that our police are and remain republican. As a matter of principle, it acts without discrimination, and a whole legal arsenal exists to prevent any discrimination from taking place. Even if you consider them insufficient, let me recall these legal provisions. The code of ethics common to the national police and gendarmerie, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, governs the practical conduct of identity checks. Article R. 434-16 of the Internal Security Code states: "Where authorized by law to carry out an identity check, the police officer or the gendarmerie shall not rely on any physical characteristics or distinctive signs to determine the persons to be checked, unless he or she has a specific warning that motivates the check. Similarly, article R. 434-15 of the same Code provides for the individual identification of agents by their number. Finally, Article 211 of the Law of 27 January 2017 on Equality and Citizenship provides for the use of mobile cameras when an identity check is carried out. In addition, I would point out that the IGPN and IGN Internet platforms allow individuals to report any misconduct by law enforcement officials, and if anyone believes that they have been subjected to discriminatory control, they can obviously refer the matter to the judge. The case law is clear in this respect and it governs these controls. The Constitutional Council, seized of two priority constitutional issues, established in its decision of 24 January 2017: "The implementation of identity checks entrusted by law to judicial police authorities must be based exclusively on criteria excluding any discrimination of any kind between persons. Similarly, when discrimination is found, the courts do not hesitate to impose sanctions. The debate that we are starting today on the bill tabled by our colleagues in La France is not new. Indeed, in 2016, similar proposals were formalized in amendments tabled on the draft law strengthening the fight against organized crime, as well as on the draft law on equality and citizenship. Similarly, several bills to combat abusive controls have been tabled. But the seniority of a problem does not necessarily make the solution of the one who wants to solve it relevant, however sincere it may be – and I will not make the rapporteur and the members of his group offend to question their sincerity. Beyond its inopportune nature, this bill, particularly in its first two articles, presents, in my view, operational problems. Article 1 seeks to amend article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, specifying that identity checks must no longer be carried out for " plausible reasons", but for "objective and individualized reasons". However, the wording of article 78 (2) is not imprecise: it clearly defines the circumstances in which an identity check may be carried out. It states: "Judicial police officers [...] may invite any person for whom there are plausible grounds for suspecting: that he has committed or attempted to commit an offence to justify [...] his identity; or that she is preparing to commit a crime [...]; or that it is likely to provide useful information [...]; or that it is the subject of research ordered by a judicial authority." The identity check must therefore already be based on objective elements related to the prevention of serious infringements of the security of persons and property or the search for offences and the discovery of their perpetrators. On the other hand, the notion of "reasons plausible to suspect" is well rooted in our law. Criminal law refers specifically to police custody and indictment. Similarly, administrative law uses a similar formula: "serious reasons for thinking". There is therefore no need to change the current wording of the code article. Article 2 aims to establish, on an experimental basis, for a period of not more than one year, the establishment of identity check receipts in the municipalities which apply for them. It also defines the monitoring procedure. Specifically, it provides that, at each check, law enforcement officers will complete a form, one part of which will be handed over to the person and another part will be retained by the police service. For data protection reasons, only the part given to the person will allow his or her identification. The aim put forward by our colleagues is to limit excessive and repeated checks, but the procedure they propose will not allow it to be achieved, for several reasons. Firstly, even if the checks can be traced by the receipt, this is not enough to demonstrate the discriminatory nature of the checks, since repetition is not synonymous with discrimination. Second, the lack of accurate identification of the controlled person can lead to possible falsification in a particularly difficult security environment or in a context of mistrust between police and citizens. Thirdly, the compulsory establishment of a receipt specifying the reason for each check would lead to considerable procedural overload, substantially prolong the duration of the checks and increase the burden on officials. This is contrary to our will and that of the Government, since we wish to digitize and alleviate as much as possible the procedures to which the law enforcement agencies are subjected, so that they concentrate on their essential tasks. Your proposal goes back to the evolution of the procedures, made of relief, simplification and dematerialisation. Part of the operational and policy difficulties that I have just invoked has led the previous majority to rule out the introduction of a receipt to combat the crime of forgery during identity checks. The La République en marche group shares these reservations, and it is surprising that some colleagues in the New Left Group, who were in the former majority, seem to have changed their minds. An alternative solution has also been implemented: the pedestrian cameras. Indeed, since 23 December 2016, the law has given police officers equipped with a telegraph camera the opportunity to film some of their interventions. Article 211 of the Act of 27 January 2017 provides for testing the systematic registration of identity checks carried out pursuant to article 78-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in certain areas defined by ministerial decree and for police officers equipped with cameras. The purpose of the use by law enforcement agencies of mobile cameras in the performance of their tasks is to prevent incidents during proceedings, to detect offences and to prosecute their perpetrators through the collection of evidence, and to verify that the officers comply with their obligations. These recordings are thus likely to deter possible abusive controls, especially since, if several cameras run the same scene, there are several points of view. The testing of the pedestrian cameras has been scheduled for one year, starting on 1 March 2017, and 2000 of them are currently being staffed, mainly with the police officers assigned to the priority security zones. The results of this experiment are not foreseen, by decree, until three months after the end of the experiment, i.e. in May or June 2018. In the absence of an interim balance sheet, it is premature to plan for a new arrangement to be tested before taking stock of the previous one. Experimentation is a practice that we appreciate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u82	When these are your proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u83	However, they must be given a chance before taking any other initiative. You are referring to Spain and Great Britain in connection with experiments. However, it appears that the number of checks has doubled in Great Britain since 2001. I grant you that they have become much more effective, but this has no effect on racial profiling: in London, a black man is always 4.5 times more likely to be controlled than a white man – it is Stéphane Troussel, the chairman of the Seine-Saint-Denis departmental council, who declared it on Europe 1 a few months ago. In Spain, experiments have also shown that the time spent by police officers on this procedure is a real obstacle to its enlargement. The balance sheet, as we can see, is therefore very mixed. In conclusion, this bill puts on the table a recurring problem but brings it a former false correct answer, an old response to an old debate, at an inappropriate time, with questionable arguments. It is not by controlling the controllers that we will emerge from the logic of mistrust between the law enforcement agencies and the citizens. The introduction of the receipt will not change this situation because it only changes the target of suspicion. The group La France insoumise hopes that the suspicion will change: it is no longer the controlled person who is suspicious, but it is the policeman who becomes so. It is obvious that the introduction of a receipt, especially in this spirit, cannot be well received by our security forces, who see it as a challenge to their work. You will understand that instead of restoring trust where it has been broken, you are only increasing distrust. We need to get out of control logic and give a deeper response. We must get out of the culture of identity control as a means of asserting police authority. It is better to focus on recruitment and training, on the one hand, and on more appropriate and mobile modes of action, on the other hand, than on the introduction of an umpteenth administrative procedure which only increases the work of our law enforcement agencies. The daily security police will make it possible to break the logic of systematic identity checks and to re-establish the link with the population, especially in sensitive neighbourhoods. Our common challenge for the years to come is to build trust, to appease relationships and to continue to guarantee individual freedoms. It's because you feel protected that you feel free. However, the introduction of a receipt does not go in that direction. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection of the bill tabled by the Group of the European People's Party on the introduction of a receipt in the context of an identity check.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u84	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u85	I repeat that, as rapporteur, I do not understand why you have tabled a motion to reject it beforehand. If you are against our proposal, go to the end, discuss, amend the text! The motion to reject beforehand, frankly, is a way to close the debate that does not honor the running Republic Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u86	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] It is only useful to debate measures that deserve it! This one would be ineffective!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u87	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u88	I'll try to finish my remarks... If I understand correctly, you do not deny the problem, but we disagree on how to resolve it. It seems to me that we should have reached the end of this debate. But I think I've already spoken quite a long time ago and I said why I disagreed with your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u89	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u90	The adoption of the motion to reject beforehand will be a bad signal to the young people and the leaders of associations who came to us and convinced us of the correctness of this idea, defended by my comrade Eric Coquerel with so much conviction. I would like to remind you once again that we are not talking about criminals or organized gangs, but about people who, because of their skin colour or appearance, are unduly controlled! In more than 97% of cases, they then return to their activities, after having lost time, marked by the feeling of discrimination, not because they have been controlled, but because they are controlled several times a day – four to five times a day for some. Take it by the end you want, these processes remain offensive! Let me tell you, you will also send a bad signal to the police officers and gendarmes, who may be interested in our debate, because they have been opposed to each other in a very misleading way! As weak as it is, the state that leads pusillanimous policies and whose hand trembles when giving orders! Police officers and gendarmes are confronted with paradoxical injunctions: on the one hand, more controls and injunctions of all kinds are being carried out; On the other hand, they are presented with no less comminatory requests for results, figures, checks and records of offences known to the perpetrators. You know as well as I do. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I now turn to those of us who are parents. We all had a somewhat turbulent teenager at home. If he is not of the right colour, his parents fear every day that he will react badly at the request of a policeman, often barely older than him. All this is not good. The order must be to give clear instructions; It is on this condition that they will be executed. Our former constable colleague will probably approve of me. The duty and honour of the officials of authority is to serve and obey, provided that the instructions are clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u91	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Indeed, we regret this motion to reject it beforehand. One of our colleagues has said that we too are using this procedure. That is true, but we are in the opposition, and the motion to reject beforehand is rather a tool of opposition, at the disposal of those who are small in number. On the other hand, in the hands of such a large majority, it betrays a weakness, the will, in any case, to deny any democratic debate, which worries me about your ability to discuss and make arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u94	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I find it particularly regrettable that you are preventing us from debating and opposing our arguments, the only day we can put our proposals on the agenda. On the contrary, you are systematically demagogically trying to table motions for prior rejection. I come to the question of the effectiveness of this measure. It is proposed here quite wisely to conduct an experiment. We may have hard heads – we claim it – but an experiment, once evaluated, will allow us to recognize our wrongs, or not. In this case, I think that this experiment would make us right because, in the cities, the neighbourhoods where we live, the stations and the metro lines we frequent, we see the facts that we denounce, without it being necessary to rely on reports – of which I do not dispute the usefulness, moreover. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We do not cast suspicion on the police or on the young people who report to us on a daily basis the humiliations suffered. But tonight, we will not send any signal of recognition of equality to the latter. Let us experiment with this measure, especially as cities are ready to do so. It would be enough to decide. If so, we will recognize our mistakes, even if I think the results will be conclusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u95	The next speaker is Mr Jean Terlier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u96	Before explaining at length why our group will vote on the motion to reject it, we listened to each other's arguments. The reality of discrimination and discriminatory controls is not being discussed, we are all aware of that. That being said, the current law allows us to respond to it, as the minister has reminded us. The receipt measure you want to introduce is not the right solution. Legally, we have the answers. Above all, it would be a very bad message, a very bad signal sent to the security forces, in that you would allow the controlled to then control the controller. The law enforcement agencies absolutely do not want such a provision, which would further complicate the procedure. An experiment is under way, with mobile cameras; We have to finish it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The proposal for a receipt is therefore not the right solution. The La République en marche group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u97	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Larrivé, for the Group of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, over 18,000 police officers and gendarmes were assaulted and wounded last year. We think of them. It is these policemen and gendarmes who have been attacked in the course of their republican missions that we must first think about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u99	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u100	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] The 150,000 policemen and the 100,000 gendarmes of France do not deserve the lessons, the suspicions of Mr Mélenchon and his comrades. The police and gendarmes of France deserve first of all respect for national representation, the recognition of the nation. I listened with great attention to the specious arguments developed by the far left. In truth, the trial you are investigating comes from very far away, from the very old mistrust of the French ultra-left over the police and the gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u101	It's not serious! It's not worthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u102	On the benches of the Republicans as on those of all other government parties, we do not have to apologize for supporting the police and gendarmerie of the Republic. Nor do we have to apologise for the exemplaryness of our legal system of control, a judicial, hierarchical and perfectly transparent system. Of course, we will reject this bill, while calling on the Government to take action against the disarray of the police and gendarmes, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u103	A disarray you're at the origin of!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u104	They need more support, but above all that the judicial authority – the prosecutor's office as well as the seat – understands that our collective duty is to demonstrate our gratitude and confidence in those who protect the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u105	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u106	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u107	Demagogue! You've removed 13,000 police stations!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u108	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u109	This text is certainly a laudable objective, but it is a good misconception. The identity check is strictly supervised, and the conditions under which it is carried out are rigorously verified by the courts. Moreover, this text casts suspicion on the forces of law and order and has major disadvantages, which we have mentioned. As we know, there are more suitable ways to avoid slipping, than we do not underestimate – we have also mentioned them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u110	Let's talk about it, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u111	For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u112	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u113	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am a member of a group that, during the 2012 campaign, had planned to introduce the receipt mechanism. I have to tell you that in my personal capacity, I have no certainty; I don't know if the solution is good or bad, but I think we have to experiment with it. I know our situation. It's not a question of stigmatizing the police, whom I know well for having worked with them for many years, perhaps more than a lot here. I know their workload, their dedication, the risks of their profession, the feeling that they may be harassed, sometimes burdened, but I have been able to measure on many occasions, by encountering them, the injury that may have caused by not having put in place the receipt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u115	You had five years to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u116	I understand the circumstances: the terrorist threat, a workload that does not slow down, and untaken leave. However, I believe that it is now possible to work in good intelligence with the police unions to conduct this experiment and draw definitive conclusions from it. I have heard, including from the majority, forms of denial of the reality of discrimination. It's serious. And this motion for the rejection of the motion before us is, once again, a denial of parliamentary debate. You say that you do not agree, while the debate gives you the opportunity to amend, comment, delete and improve the proposals made on other benches. Regrettably, you have become accustomed to indignation in your certainties and to listen only to yourself. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u117	This debate deserves better! You've allowed inequalities to increase, it's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u118	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u119	As a result, the bill is rejected. There will be no need for the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u120	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u121	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u122	The next item is the debate on Mrs Caroline Fiat's proposal for a law and the members of the La France insoubted group on euthanasia and assisted suicide, for a dignified end of life (No. 517, 582).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u123	Mrs Caroline Fiat, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u124	Mr President, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is proposing a law to legalise euthanasia and assisted suicide under conditions. In order to prevent amalgams and confusions, I would like to point out from the outset that the needs and expectations to which this text intends to respond are not at all the same as those of the so-called "Claeys-Leonetti" law and the policy of development of palliative care are aimed at satisfying. I am indeed one of those who refuse to include palliative care, deep and continuous sedation, euthanasia and suicide assistance in contradictory logics. These various ways of appeasing the physical or psychological suffering of people at the end of their lives are complementary. I am the first to call for the massive deployment and strengthening of palliative care resources in our country, at a time when the risk of a lack or insufficiency of palliative care exists for more than 75% of people in need, according to an IGAS report – the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – published in 2017. As misunderstandings are thus eliminated, it must be recognized that, in many situations, palliative care can be a solution to ensure a dignified end of life, but this is not always the case. Some people may find unbearable what may appear to them as a palliative ardour. According to the data provided at his hearing by the President of ADMD – the Association for the Right to Die in Dignity – more than half of those admitted to palliative care units maintain their request to die, despite the care provided. Similarly, if the deep and continuous sedation enshrined in the Claeys-Leonetti law can be an option for some people, this is not the case for all. Such sedation can scare some people at the end of their lives and their loved ones. Indeed, no scientific study has so far established the total absence of suffering in the person under sedation, which sometimes takes several weeks to succumb to a lack of hydration. Moreover, while palliative care units are the first to be affected by sedation requests, they may be reluctant to grant them. Of course, this can be understood by people who have chosen to engage professionally in the palliative care sector to accompany patients hand in hand and eye in the eyes, not patients under sedation. But it remains, however, that in the end, our legislative arsenal does not propose any solution to people with a serious or incurable affection causing them unbearable physical or mental suffering, and who, like writer Anne Bert, have a conception of their dignity that leads them to prefer to put an end to their days in complete lucidity, even though they are not yet at the end of their lives. Already in 2012, the Commission de réflexion sur la fin de vie en France explained that, in the absence of legalisation of euthanasia or assisted suicide, French law did not respond to the situation of existential suffering of a person fearing the tragic evolution of a brain tumor, even though it is still perfectly conscious and capable, and wishing to anticipate the end of its life. The result is that those of our fellow citizens who are in this situation find themselves today in the light of euthanasia and assisted suicide in a position quite comparable to that which others knew until 1975 in view of the voluntary termination of pregnancy: either they have the means to find refuge in our European neighbours so that they can die there with dignity; either they do not have the means to cross our borders and then they find other ways to ameliorate their suffering, for example by violent suicide, or they suffer in our territory what Professor Didier Sicard called "evil death". The climax of the paradox is that they sometimes find themselves euthanized against their will, in catini, in our hospitals. I would like to remind you that a study published in 2012 by INED – the National Institute for Demographic Studies – revealed that medical decisions with the intention of ending the lives of patients represented 3.1% of the deaths recorded in our country in December 2009. According to the latest information given yesterday to the newspaper Libération by INED researchers, 0.2% of these deaths, or 1200 deaths, correspond to real euthanasias. However, almost 80% of the acts thus considered euthanasia would be performed without the explicit request of patients. Ladies and gentlemen, do you find it normal that, every year, almost 1000 clandestine euthanasias are practiced in our territory on people who have not asked for them and that at the same time, those who ask for an early end to their days should be forced to flee abroad to find the conditions for a dignified death? For my part, I say no! For this reason, section 1 e r of this bill seeks to legalize euthanasia and assisted suicide, subject to conditions. Rather than using the formula of "active medical assistance to die" or other circumvolutions, this article does not hesitate to use the terms "euthanasia" and "suicide assistance". Indeed, as the recent FIFG poll for the newspaper La Croix has shown, these notions are perfectly clear to our fellow citizens and no longer scare them. According to the survey, 89 per cent of French people are in favour of going further than the current end-of-life legislation, and 71 per cent are in favour of legalizing euthanasia. Assuming therefore the claim of a "right to die", which Vincent Humbert and Chantal Sébire once claimed in vain by the French courts and successive Presidents of the Republic, article 1 of the Constitution gives rise to the legality of acts of euthanasia and assisted suicide on several conditions, inspired by Belgian and Luxembourg laws. First, the request must come from a capable person, the assumption that the person would be unable to express his will being considered. Secondly, this person must be affected by a serious or incurable condition, whatever the cause, which inflicts on him or her a physical or mental suffering which he or she considers unbearable and which cannot be soothed, or which places him or her in a state of dependence which he or she considers incompatible with his or her dignity. Finally, the lethal act can only be performed by a doctor or in the presence and under the responsibility of a doctor, being specified that Article 4 guarantees health professionals the possibility of invoking the conscience clause in order to refuse to accompany a patient in his or her proceedings, provided, however, that he or she directs him or her immediately to a practitioner likely to accept it. It is only under the above conditions that persons assisting in an act of euthanasia or assisted suicide may benefit from the exemption from prosecution and criminal sanctions provided for in Article 5. However, this absence of criminality is only valid in so far as the highly precise collegial procedure provided for in Article 3 has also been followed. This article provides a very strict framework for the processing of requests for euthanasia and suicide assistance. I am not going to go back tonight to the details of the procedure, which I had the opportunity to describe last week in committee. However, I would like to point out that Article 3 provides for the various situations which may be encountered in practice: awareness of the patient or not; whether or not the patient is able to formulate a free, enlightened, thoughtful and explicit will; whether or not the attending physician agrees to accompany the patient in his or her approach; whether or not there are advance directives. I can only be surprised that some Members of the majority blame the La France insoubted group for legislating prematurely and preempting the outcome of the debate opened by the states-general of bioethics two weeks ago, while other Members, belonging to the same majority, as early as 27 September last year, almost three months before the tabling of ours, hastened to table a proposal for a law tending little or no prou to legalise euthanasia under the pudic name of "active medical assistance to die". So understand that it is difficult to find consistency in the position of the majority and that it is difficult to accept the argument that ad vitam aeternam, following further debates and evaluations, is a highly anticipated step forward, even supported by our fellow citizens. Successive parliamentary missions, debates organized by the Commission de réflexion sur la fin de vie en France and by the National Advisory Committee on Ethics: rarely has a subject also been discussed and evaluated over the last twenty years. In my view, the logic of regularly assessing existing legislative arrangements should not undermine the responsibility of the legislator, which is to fill the most obvious gaps in our public policies as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore hope that national representation will not tarnish for months, or even years, and that it will adopt this bill, which, while respecting the freedom of all consciences, at last offers our fellow citizens the opportunity to choose, by enshrining the right to die.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u126	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u127	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for addressing this issue of difficult medical and ethical issues: euthanasia. You rightly say: "In the face of death, we are all equal." On the other hand, we are far from equal as to the conditions under which we die. » It is on the basis of this strong consideration that the Claeys-Leonetti law was adopted in early 2016, after almost a year of parliamentary debates and participatory work organized for two years. Everyone was able to make their voice heard: associations, health professionals, large religious families. On such an intimate, complex subject, opinions are always diverse; legislating on the end of life is all the more a responsibility. The Claeys-Leonetti law unquestionably reinforces the rights of patients. In the view of all, it clarifies the conditions for the cessation of treatment, as a result of the refusal of unreasonable obstinacy. This is a step forward so that the end of life can be soothed that it is not hard to treat and soothes. The law affirms a new right of the patient, in order to avoid suffering and to preserve his dignity: that of benefiting from deep and continuous sedation until death when the life expectancy is engaged in the short term and there is no hope anymore. Above all, it reverses the logic of decision-making and places the patient at the heart of the decision-making process, so that he or she is fully involved in decisions affecting him or her, making his or her advance directives binding on the doctor. However, this law, as such, is obviously not enough. This is why the implementation of a 2015-2018 national plan for the development of palliative care and end-of-life support has strengthened it. This plan should help to better inform the patient so that he or she is at the heart of the decisions that affect him or her, and to strengthen professional training, research and dissemination of knowledge on palliative care. It must also develop community care, by promoting palliative care at home, including for residents in social and medico-social institutions. Finally, this plan must ensure access to palliative care for all, in order to reduce inequality of access. I have at my heart, like you, that health rhymes with solidarity. This law has made the choice of a certain balance and, I know, does not go far enough for some, but I am concerned about your bill. You want to open the possibility of euthanasia or assisted suicide in case of serious or incurable illness. You therefore make a choice: that of euthanasia or assisted suicide, including when the disease is serious, even if it is curable. In my view, breaking with the criterion of incurability is taking the risk of opening the way to arbitrary euthanasia. However, the sometimes virulent debates between pro-euthanasia and pro-life force me, as a minister, to subscribe to the demand, to the "extenuating intransigence of the measure" of which Camus spoke. More broadly, I do not wish to insult the future: the debate on the rights of patients and end-of-life people is always legitimate and useful. You know that, obviously, our retreat from the Claeys-Leonetti law is insufficient. To give us the necessary hindrance, I do not want a new law to interfere with the mission to assess the implementation of the 2016 Claeys-Leonetti law, currently led by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs. This assessment concerns in particular the training of health professionals, the implementation of advance directives, the designation of trusted persons, access to palliative care throughout the country and the supervision of the establishment of deep sedation in health facilities, in residential institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – or at home. The results of this evaluation will be useful in preparing for the adoption of a new set of measures to develop palliative care and end-of-life support, at the end of the current plan and for the next three years. The state will have to keep its mobilization intact in order to create the conditions for effective access to all palliative care, whatever the circumstances. As you are also aware, the work on revising the current Bioethics Act of 7 July 2011 has just been launched. In accordance with the provisions laid down, this work begins with the holding of general states, at the initiative of the National Ethics Advisory Committee. On this occasion, I know, the subject of the end of life will be discussed again. Some will want to go further; others also, probably, go back; Still others, take the time to make live the law of 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2012 Sicard report, your bill reminds us of this, highlights the feelings of abandonment, loneliness or indifference felt by many patients and their fear of therapeutic harassment. That is, by the same token, to recognize the right of patients to make a free choice. Hippocrates' oath, which some of us here have taken, affirms it well: "I will respect all persons, their autonomy and their will, without any discrimination according to their state or their convictions. The French share this ethical requirement, as the Sicard report points out. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As a minister and as a doctor, I must avoid two pitfalls: irresoluteness and unpreparation. To prepare us, let us take the time to reflect, especially since the subject of death is a politically serious subject, which engages society as a whole. As the philosopher of death, Jankélévich, said masterfully: "Death is not an object like any other: it is an object which, strangling the thinking being, ends and cuts short the exercise of thought. Death turns against the consciousness of dying! Let us all work together, regardless of our political differences, to let the democratic exercise of thought live, with the patience of reflection!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u128	In the general debate, Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u129	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in our country, France, where human rights were proclaimed on 26 August 1789, the legalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide, if we so decide, could, I believe, represent 229 years later, a new stage of human emancipation, a new right for every citizen. We could, if we decided, forge the new link of a long chain of emancipation that is not complete. That is what we are proposing and which we want to discuss. A long symbolic thread links the great acts of the Revolution to our proposal, I will explain it to myself. I am thinking in particular of the right to civil marriage and the right to divorce, made possible by the law of 20 September 1792. I do not depart from our subject by recalling that at one of the most difficult times in the history of our country, on the very day of Valmy's victory, the National Assembly adopts a decree "that determines the way in which citizens can see the civil status of their citizens". You see, there has always been the will, even in difficult times, to question the major stages of human existence. In 1792, birth, marriage and the right to separation were removed from the hands of religious institutions, secularized, if you allow me the word; It is through the prism of freedom of conscience, by allowing each one to judge his own existence, that these great intimate moments of existence were addressed, codified, introduced into the law. We must continue this conquest of new rights in these great moments, which are not only birth and marriage, but also death. The legalization of the right to abortion, in 1975, was also part of this logic of self-determination, by making women fully masters of their bodies. Finally, in 2013, the Marriage for All Act allowed everyone to marry. Why talk about all these laws? Because all these strong moments have obviously been the occasion for debates, sometimes confrontation with those of our fellow citizens who have spiritual and religious convictions. I assure this rostrum that I respect them deeply. I do not criticise some of our fellow citizens for addressing these serious issues, particularly the death report, on the basis of their intimate convictions, especially religious ones. In the face of death, believers know what to do, and it is a force – faith is an energy, without a doubt, to go through the most difficult moments of existence. But in our country, there are also many of our fellow citizens who are not believers and wish to address these difficult moments without the compass of the great monotheistic religions who consider that we must defend life in all circumstances, no matter what. There are therefore citizens in our country who are not believers and do not address these important, intimate moments with the eyes of the great religions. That is why we propose a great law of freedom, which is also a great act of fraternity. We now want to consider this question in the light of this ultimate freedom: that of being able to decide for oneself to turn off the light. If I speak in the gallery tonight to defend before you the legalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide, it is because many citizens are now in favour of this proposal in our country. Studies exist, surveys have been carried out: 89% of French respondents were in favour of it, the LaCroix newspaper announced in January; Another survey referred to the figure of 78%. Many associations have seized this issue, including the ADMD, chaired by Jean-Luc Romero, who is very committed to the subject – he is not the only one. Several legislative proposals have been tabled in this direction, including one in 2009 presented by Yves Cochet, Martine Billard, Noël Mamère and François de Rugy, now President of the National Assembly. Finally, several countries around the world, including Belgium and Canada, have already endorsed this right. This is, above all, a big philosophical question – you used the word "ethics," Madam Minister, and you were right, because it's almost the same thing. This is not a debate of doctors, even if they must be heard. In the same way that the school does not belong to the teachers, this matter does not belong to the medical profession. The latter must of course enlighten us with his knowledge, but it is above all to every citizen, depending on his philosophical view, that he focuses on existence in general and on his own. I recognize that the debate is not simple, including between us. That is why I hope that we can address it in our groups. Indeed, it touches on very strong subjects, which raise many questions. If we wish this debate to begin, it is, I repeat, because it is a great philosophical question. The State, by denying a patient the right to die in dignity in the current legislative framework, flouts the free will of the patient. Respect for the freedom of everyone requires the State to endorse this new right, while guiding it in its modalities in order to enable the patient to choose and achieve his or her end in optimal conditions. This proposal is a law of freedom. It provides for provisions to prioritize the modes of expression of the patient's will, first directly, then by advance directives, finally through a trusted person. The possibility of deciding what one wants for oneself, if one falls seriously ill and suffers without hope of healing, grows man. It is in no way an obligation. I myself, who defend this bill, do not know what I would do if I were faced with this choice. Perhaps, wanting to enjoy my loved ones during the last breaths of my life, I would go to the end, despite the suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u130	Yes, you're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u131	Perhaps, on the contrary, I would like to have the right to decide myself. I repeat, it is first and foremost a great law of freedom that we propose to you. I recall it at the foot of this beautiful work which represents the School of Athens – an ideal temple gathering so many philosophers but lacking Seneca – for the Stoicians of Antiquity, the possibility of suicide is the ultimate argument that makes it possible to know whether one is free, since one must always keep the freedom to escape situations against which one can nothing. As Seneca said: "Meditating death means meditating freedom; He who knows how to die, no longer knows how to be a slave. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u133	That is why I will call the 2016 law a bad law. We disapprove of it because we believe that it does not create the conditions for a dignified end of life. The deep sedation that you mentioned, Madam Minister, actually means that the patient is killed by stopping food and hydration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u134	No, that's not it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u135	It illustrates the natural, legitimate fear of looking at death in the face. However, this refusal to envisage death has painful consequences on the patients concerned, who, instead of leaving decisively and instantaneously, are slowly extinguished, sometimes in uncertain agony.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u136	That's not true! Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u137	The choice to die, man must be able to obtain it in some cases. Indeed, when one is affected by certain afflictions, when no hope of remission or healing is possible and the only horizon of life for the patient is death in suffering, one can say, in a certain way, that life has stopped, although the heart has not stopped beating. This perception of a life at a standstill, only the patient can feel it, inside his body and in his mind. That is why the choice to die is entirely subjective and personal. The doctor is not able to judge; It can only ensure that the patient is able to make an informed decision. We agree that, although the body can still function perfectly, the mental state of the person can justify the right to die. It's for this reason that respiratory assistance is stopped from patients in a state of brain death. You must consider that this law not only establishes a right to die in dignity, but also a right to cease suffering. The medical situations referred to are characterized by great psychological and psychological suffering, which can sometimes be accompanied by intolerable physical suffering. It is inhuman and immoral to deny the persons concerned the right and the means to put an end to this suffering, when they so request. In view of this suffering, I believe that it is not only a bill that is being considered this evening, but a fundamental freedom of the human person, in the continuity of human and citizen rights, as I pointed out in the beginning. It is the conquest of ultimate freedom. Minister, I thank you for the dignity of your intervention, in which you measured the difficulty of the issue addressed with precision by Caroline Fiat. Everyone may or may not agree with the arguments that have been raised, but we are happy, even proud, to have been able, after others, to bring this debate to the rostrum of the National Assembly. The simple fact of asking us this question, without resorting to euphemism, increases us collectively and raises the political debate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As the great Jaurès said, in his speech to youth, very famous but too often reduced to a single sentence: "The courage is to understand one's own life. [...] Courage is to love life and to look at the death with a quiet look. Every citizen must have the right to this quiet look. That is the meaning of our bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u138	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u139	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if the debate on the end of life is old, the subject before us here opens up a wide range of questions. It has an anthropological and civilizational significance, which calls for humility. I will try to do so all the more because it refers each one to intimate experiences, to the dramatic part of human existence. However, it also has a political stake that refers to this question: what humanity do we want to form? Neither our debates nor our decision today will exhaust the subject. So it is with the deliberate bias of human dignity that I will address it, like all the others. How, first of all, do not be revolted by suffering when it comes to taunting one of our fellows by threatening not to let go of it? It must be said, albeit with caution: the consideration of pain and, more broadly, of suffering has progressed both in terms of technical possibilities and in terms of the requirements for care practices. We're now done with the pain of therapy and unreasonable obstinacy; relief of suffering is at the top of the agenda. However, there are still refractory sufferings, before which we are reduced to impotence. This is what presided over the vote of the Leonetti law, then the Claeys-Leonetti law. Michel Vaxès, who preceded me on these benches, said in 2004 about these sufferings: "So nothing is more important than to fight them throughout life, to the end of life, even when the acts that tend to suppress them may have the consequence of precipitating the final moment of a life that is leaving". It is under this regime that we are today, with the ultimate possibility of deep sedation, which is of the order of care. I would like to pay tribute to the women and men whose daily lives are to accompany the end of life, to their strength and to their humanity, but it must be said immediately that, without the corresponding means to develop palliative care, the fight against suffering cannot be conducted properly. This adds to the revolt and is a political issue that is not peripheral in our debate: giving each and every one of the respectful end-of-life conditions is a central requirement that makes consensus in society. Never abbreviated lives cannot be an acceptable response to the lack of resources. Death is not a therapeutic. Yet women and men, even before they are confronted with pain and even before they enter this phase of the end of life, demonstrate the will to end life and demand that they be given the right to die. In the face of suicide, our society has evolved. It has ended with reproach and condemnation, adopting a fraternal attitude which consists of not resolving itself to the death caused, dissuadeing it if it can. Because living is sometimes difficult, painful. We have to face storms – a hundred times fall and rise. The question is whether, under certain conditions, one could imagine that one can accompany and facilitate such acts, and therefore accept the idea that life is not always worth living to its end. "If you had asked me during my forty-two years of splendor, before my accident, if I would agree to live the life that has been mine for twenty years," writes Philippe Pozzo di Borgo, whose autobiography gave the film Untouchables, "I would have answered without hesitation," like 92% of the French today: "No, rather death! [...] But what violence against the humiliated, at the ends of life, as if there were dignity only in appearance and performance. » The philosopher Jacques Ricot poses, as an extension, the question of whether this would not be tantamount to distilling, for all those "whose life is diminished", "whose horizon is obstructed" the idea that "society in its benevolence offers you an outcome: the provision of a deadly poison". Even so, should this assistance not be granted in order to respect the freedom, the will of the person or of the person who asks to be ahead of the end? Who are we to deny her? It's a delicate question. Is it necessary to establish this right of credence which obliges society to be involved in suicide or to give death? And who will this be the job of when it is no longer a matter of healing? What would happen if this right existed, if this possibility was open, if each and every one, seeing himself decline, were faced with this heavy individual responsibility, without the guarantee of power being abstrated, neither the considerations of his own life and his entourage, nor the social determinants? Until when, how far are our choices free, and how can we codify it? How far can this right be granted, since any fundamental right is by nature universalizable? Is it so certain that this represents social progress and freedoms? Is there not a collective, social responsibility in this area which is not of the same order as the will of the individual? Another question: is dignity lost when life withdraws or when it is no longer so bright? Don't we continue to be human? In essence, how can we judge the quality of life? Life is fragile and its manifestations sometimes tenuous, but no one can be reduced to the state that is his to the article of death. Giving meaning to his life to the end is nothing simple and it is no easier for the loved ones, who also have to face the test, sometimes in the long term, even though it is also there sometimes that difficult stories come to pass and a tenderness is established whose whirling life prevents expression. Thus, society is faced with an issue that is not trivial. The human person is more than a body, more than a consciousness, more than a social status: it results from a historical and social construction called to rise and expand. The human person is the human world, it is the whole social relationship. According to philosopher Lucien Sève, who has long served on the National Ethics Advisory Committee, "the person is the inherent form-value of every human, whatever his state, by the mere fact that he is as a human being to be regarded as a member of the civilized order of the person." It is on this basis that human dignity and the requirement to respect on an equal basis, unconditionally and universally, every human being and to respect all human beings are built. Needless to say, in my view, this requirement calls for a supreme political will in all areas, in the face of multiple attacks, to guarantee the right to live in dignity. Large program! Finally, does the current law, escaping the pitfalls of manicheism, not allow us to face – in theory, and in practice, if the means were deployed – a variety of situations and apprehensions? At that time, our group voted for it with the conviction that it was indeed the law of dignity and humanity that we needed, giving patients rights and answering questions. If it is not satisfactory, we must take the time to assess it. Faced with what escapes us, decisively human, we would like to be able to remain in control. Is this not already largely possible? In large part, for no law will abolish the confrontation of each and every one with death. "The human power, which is immense, stops at that of interrupting the lives of others," wrote Axel Kahn. "Nothing can justify it. So, do we have to open a breach in this rule? That's the question. But on the end of life, certainly, we can and must act. The culture of palliative care has made progress, but it still needs to be carried far beyond it, and the means must be given to it in all places where it is useful and necessary. The situation of residential institutions for dependent elderly people – the EHPAD – calls for special treatment in this regard. We must, however, look at the end of life differently, look at it all at once and not leave this issue in the shadows on the grounds that we prefer not to think about it too much or that we know the importance of the investments to be made. The persistence of these questions must further reinforce the urgency of hearing this call to better treat every human until the end of his life. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on certain benches of the REM, UDI-Agir and FI groups]] That is where we stand at this stage of the discussion, but this debate is important and must be conducted in our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u140	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u141	The debate we have this evening is important and I thank Mrs Fiat, the rapporteur, for giving us the opportunity. It has been at the heart of French society for many years and it is no coincidence that three bills have been tabled on this subject since last summer. More than a problem of bioethics stricto sensu, since it does not really result from scientific progress, it is a question of society and the choice of method of solidarity that applies at the time of the end of life. All of us here know the shortcomings of our system. All of us insist that palliative care be developed at a much higher level. Indeed, only one third of the patients who should be able to benefit from it in practice. Other measures previously voted on are also insufficiently developed. Even improved, is our arsenal sufficient? Apparently not, according to many of our colleagues here or according to opinion polls that show that 89% of French people aspire to legalization of euthanasia and/or assisted suicide. There is no opposition in the minds of our fellow citizens between the deployment of active help to die and the strengthening of widespread access to palliative care. The question of the choice between euthanasia and agony arises in palliative care patients. As Anne Bert puts it, under such circumstances, it is not a question of giving death – it is the disease that kills, the patient then having the choice only between two types of death, more or less peaceful. Offering an option to patients in a situation of therapeutic impasse can be seen as a step forward, a freedom, a new right. This can also make sense of the advance directives, as the end-of-life choice will then be respected, even if it involves a waiver of agony. Should such measures be voted on tonight? Legislating in this area is no longer possible for a few months, as the French have been called upon for many, broad and ambitious consultations on the subject in recent days. The National Ethics Advisory Committee organises debates in all French regions with regional ethical spaces. The Economic, Social and Environmental Council carries out wide-ranging hearings, such as our Committee on Social Affairs, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices (OPECST) and several other bodies. The General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and various missions assess the current status of end-of-life care in France. What an insult it would be to the hundreds of thousands of French people mobilized in participatory reflection if we told them that the law was passed and that they had only to pass their way! What a contempt for democracy if we did not expect all these consultations to be concluded! The time for debate will end in early summer. We will then be able to resume our work, which we consider as important and urgent as you, Mrs Fiat. We will have heard much more precisely the various points of view – some favourable, others reluctant to euthanasia. Mutual respect will have time to establish itself. I will be told that debates have taken place for years, ad nauseam, and that action must now be taken. No: we cannot act when many Frenchmen, taking charge of their destiny, prepare us a road map, an inspiration, a meaning. They are the ones who will tell us more precisely where to put the cursor. Let us be careful about these points, which are not details. When you suggest, Madam rapporteur, that euthanasia be extended to persons with serious illness who wish to do so, you leave the end of life. Cancers are thus serious diseases, but half of them are curable and the majority of doctors would likely be opposed to euthanasia in the case of a patient likely to cure his disease. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we must wait until the end of the dialogue to choose the most appropriate terms of the future law on the end of life. Madam rapporteur, we will be meeting very soon and will together lead to the legislative complements that the French hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u142	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u143	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill "for a dignified end of life" which we are given to examine this evening, it is our understanding of society and the dignity of man that is being played out. This is also the answer that national representation intends to give to this substantive question: in which society do we want to live? The question is all the more fundamental because so-called "society" issues too often suffer from being dealt with only partially, as if history had a meaning that it would be enough to marry to be in the true, driven by the winds of modernity. Ladies and gentlemen, the future is not written in advance. He does not obey any underlying law that we should simply discover, and then blindly accompany. The future is what we do with it. And it is because it is up to us to build it that the representatives of the nation must legislate the trembling hand, aware of the consequences of all decisions in them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u144	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u145	Does this bill meet this requirement of prudence? Unfortunately, for two main reasons, one leads to the other: the partial diagnosis of the end of life in France and the very nature of the answers it advocates. Diagnosis, first of all. As Frédéric, caregiver at Argenteuil Hospital, explains: "In palliative care services, we do not care for dying people. We're treating the living. May we hear these words. For Frédéric, as for the palliative care teams I met in my Seine-Saint-Denis department, things are clear: euthanasia requests are rare, if not non-existent. When there are, they are very quickly withdrawn when they are opposed to the global accompaniment – scientific, social, psychological and spiritual – advocated by palliative care. An obstacle to the development of this accompaniment lies in the fact – this is underlined in the explanatory memorandum of this text – that death has become "a taboo subject" in France; even more than death, it is the vulnerability of the person, the consideration of the intrinsic fragility of our humanity that is now eluded from our reflection. More and more masters of our choices, we forget that before we became autonomous, we had to acquire this autonomy, which was passed on to us. We are therefore fundamentally social beings, dependent on others; As such, pretending to be, until the evening of his life, totally sovereign of his choices is more a matter of fear – fear of losing the self-image – than of a therapeutic demand. Yes, the human condition makes us weaken at some point. Do we become less worthy? It is because man is by nature worthy, from his birth to his death, that our duty is to assist him and to do everything possible to ensure that the existing solutions are finally offered to him. Indeed, experts today agree that any pain can be relieved by a range of solutions including the use of anaesthetic techniques or pain surgery. The sufferings from which depression originates also find medical responses, in the vast majority of cases. Our fellow citizens simply need to know, have a strong need for reinsurance. Far from reassuring them, this text, by proposing to legalize euthanasia, takes note of their fear, as if it were without a way out. Thus he relies on a survey commissioned by the ADMD from FIFG, of which we all know the very partisan view on this subject, which would reveal that 92% of the French support the legalization of euthanasia. It is surprising that, on such a matter of meaning, you can seriously refer to such a survey, the biased nature of which has been perfectly demonstrated by the journalists of the Special Envoy programme. Indeed, how amazement is that the French answer yes to the following question: "In your opinion, should French law allow doctors to put an end, without suffering, to the lives of these people suffering from unbearable and incurable diseases if they so request? As Alain Garrigou, Director of the Survey Observatory, explains, this is not a neutral question; "suffering", "unbearable", "incurable": these terms, far from being neutral – everyone can agree – encourage compassion, not discernment. Why not talk about this other survey, also carried out by the FIFG, two years earlier, this time for an association against euthanasia, according to which only 34% of the respondents plebiscite euthanasia? Basically, regardless of the survey, converging conclusions can be drawn: it is urgent in France to look at the quality of the end of life. Too many people perceive the end of life as a sum of pain that it is unnecessary to prolong. These surveys must therefore be seen as an appeal to us to retake ourselves, not to resort to ease or to resign in the face of distress situations to which our society could respond if it could afford to do so and concentrate, first and foremost, on the proper application of the existing law. The Claeys-Leonetti law, creating new rights for patients and people at the end of their lives, such as the right to deep and continuous sedation and, to this end, the implementation of advance directives, was passed just over a year ago: let us give the time for evaluation. In any case, the first upsurges make practical and ethical difficulties for our doctors in enforcing the new rights provided for by the Claeys-Leonetti law. An act like sedation is indeed heavy with consequences for a single man, which is more so when he is guided by the duty of assistance, as recalled by the opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee of 2013 on the end of life. This act is all the more serious because the culture of palliative care is weak in our country: according to the Société française d'accompaniment et de société pallié, only 30% of those who would need it now receive palliative care. In other words, seven in ten French people at the end of their lives would not benefit from palliative care. In view of this fact, what are you proposing specifically through this bill? Article 1 states: "Any person... with a serious or incurable condition, whatever the cause, inflicting on him or her a physical or mental suffering which he or she considers unbearable and which cannot be soothed, or placing him or her in a state of dependence which he or she considers incompatible with his or her dignity, may apply [...] for euthanasia or suicide assistance. » In other words, the fact that suffering is the result of illness and that life expectancy is committed is no longer necessary. France is therefore required to adopt the Belgian model, curiously erected as a reference, at a time when significant drifts are emerging. Belgian law does not require that the person be in the terminal phase of a serious and incurable disease, objectively assessed by the medical profession. In a forum published in the local press, at the end of 2016, a group of Belgian ethicists and doctors moved, recalling that the subjective perception of suffering in their country gradually became the only criterion – I say the only one – taken into account. That is not all: the text is also inspired by Belgian law by providing that in case of refusal to practise euthanasia, the doctor may invoke a clause of conscience, provided that he is obliged to transmit the patient's medical file to another doctor who will accede to his request for euthanasia. In concrete terms, this amounts to forcing the objecting physician to cooperate indirectly in an act that disgusts his conscience. He is therefore forced to a form of hypocrisy: "I do not do it myself but I direct you to a colleague who will respond to your request". Is there not here, as in other respects, any contradiction to claim, on the one hand, complete moral autonomy and to demand, on the other, that, in the exercise of public and professional activities, each put in brackets its own convictions to satisfy individual requests? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, this text, presented in haste, does not meet the challenges of our time or the real needs of people at the end of their lives. As my colleague Stéphane Viry said, Members of the Republican Group are free to vote; For my part, I shall vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u146	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u147	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party, with this bill, intends to legalise euthanasia and assisted suicide. If the question was whether, personally, I am in favour of euthanasia or assisted suicide, I would probably answer yes, like a large number of French people when asked this question, because, like most of us, I do not want to imagine a death or an existence with unbearable physical or psychological suffering. But the question is not that. The question here is whether legislation is needed to enable people with a serious or incurable disease to legally use medical devices to put an end to their lives. The way in which our society approaches suffering and death is of concern to us all because it questions our humanity. In this way, this Assembly has quite rightly debated the issue of end of life and euthanasia in recent years. The Claeys-Leonetti Law of 2016 strengthened the Leonetti Law of 2005, recalling that everyone has the right to a dignified end of life, including the right to third-party effectiveness of advance directives, as well as the right to real relief from suffering. It is a major step forward in terms of recognition of the rights of patients at the end of their life. In addition to patient benevolence, temporary sedation periods can be used during treatment, when they are too hard to endure, to effectively relieve pain and have real moments of respite. In the case of treatments no longer effective, deep and continuous sedation may be considered. The Act also enshrines access to palliative care and the right of everyone to a dignified and peaceful end of life, with professionals making every effort to ensure that this right is respected. However, to date, 80% of patients do not have access to palliative care and only one third of physicians are trained in palliative care. The goal of palliative care is to prevent and relieve the pain and syndrome of a person with a serious or incurable illness. This is a global approach, which must take into account all types of suffering: physical, psychic, social. Palliative care is not theoretically limited to the last weeks of life: it should be able to benefit patients for whom curative care no longer brings a perspective of favorable evolution – regardless of the stage of the disease – as well as patients living in difficult stages during their treatment, in order to alleviate by all means their symptoms or psychological suffering at times when it is not possible to have an action on the cause of these sufferings. In this regard, palliative care is a matter of well-contracted care and, in a society that is thought to be highly evolved and which would afford itself the means of this humanism, the question of palliative care should become evident to the caregiver. However, staff in palliative care units are concerned about a lack of resources. The legalization of euthanasia would not solve the major problem, which in France far too many people die badly. The supply of palliative care is not sufficiently diversified, the number of applications is higher than the number of places available, and the lack of resources, both financial and human, creates disparities between units and between patients. In our country, we suffer from a lack of culture in palliative care. If we can cite Belgium and Switzerland as examples of their openness to a request for euthanasia and assisted suicide, we have to make it clear that these possibilities find their meaning in a continuum of care, in which palliative care has a privileged place – this is not yet the case in France. It is true that, in recent years, a number of complex situations have called upon us, such as those of Vincent Lambert or Anne Bert. The case of the latter, who wanted to shorten his life because of the unbearable nature of the evolution of his disease, is undoubtedly one of the exceptional situations in which we might have to change the legislation over the next few years. However, the testimonies of caregivers and palliative care volunteers are unanimous: many patients enter palliative care by asking for an end to palliative care as soon as possible – if possible with a "small bite" – and who live with precious last hours, last days or last weeks, having been able to take or give beautiful things to life. The case of Vincent Lambert, whose family was torn apart to determine whether to stop care or prosecute them, raises the question of the advance directions. If any major person today can, if he or she so wishes, make a written statement called "Advanced Directions" to clarify his or her wishes regarding his or her end of life, a large number of people do not know the existence of this possibility. This right has existed since the Leonetti Act of 2005, but in 2012, only 2.5 per cent of end-of-life patients had drafted their advance directives. The 2016 law provides that advance directives are required for the physician, except in cases of vital emergency, for the time necessary for a full assessment of the situation, and when they appear manifestly inappropriate or not in conformity with the medical situation. The appointment of a trusted person is also essential. The choice of several third parties, as proposed in Article 2 of this bill, might make sense, but it would be appropriate to limit their number to two, as the multiplication of stakeholders could significantly complicate the relationship with the medical team. In considering this bill, other questions arise. Article 3 provides that a person may express his or her will to be euthanized or to be assisted in suicide when "a person has a serious or incurable condition". The question of the cursor to be placed here is crucial: when does one judge that a disease is serious enough for the patient's life to be shortened? From what degree of suffering can it be estimated that it is no longer bearable? If psychological suffering can be absolutely intolerable, should a doctor shorten the life of a patient suffering from severe depression? These issues are extremely sensitive and must be dealt with with with the utmost care. A clear framework must be defined and doctors must not be left alone, or even two, to make a decision that may prove extremely difficult. As with deep sedation, it is collegiality among caregivers that can allow doctors, whose function is to treat, to admit that an act of death is the only response they can provide to a patient. Article 4 also provides for the introduction of a conscience clause allowing doctors who wish to do so not to participate in an act of euthanasia or assisted suicide. Indeed, these acts, which are far from trivial, cannot be imposed on doctors. However, we would like to go further and point out that, in general, no doctor would be required to participate in euthanasia or suicide assistance, since these acts must be the subject of a truly voluntary procedure on the part of doctors. Moreover, it seems essential, if we are to legalize euthanasia, that doctors be properly trained in it, in order to best accompany the patient in his or her journey. We believe that, without further training of medical teams and without a genuine voluntary approach, euthanasia and assisted suicide cannot be achieved under acceptable conditions. It is therefore necessary before any new law on this subject to evaluate the Claeys-Leonetti law, to make it known to the general public and medical personnel by carrying out regular information campaigns on the rights it has created, and to promote territorial equality of access to palliative care, in order to give as many people as possible the possibility of better living the end of their lives. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LR groups]] For the reasons mentioned, the MODEM Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u149	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u150	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if we take Sirius' point of view and look at the evolution of our democratic societies for more than two centuries, we can only be struck by the rapidity and extent of the changes at work. Thanks to advances in medicine, thanks to the discovery of the infinitely small and microbes, the invention of vaccines and the development of the welfare state and social protection, we live longer and healthier. Liberal democracy is gradually becoming the most appropriate model of government for our contemporary societies, in the minds of governments and those governed. The fundamental rights of individuals are thus better recognized and more irritating the relationships of individuals with society as a whole. The protection afforded to individuals, whether it is protection against the hazards of life, against the arbitrariness of the State, in the face of nature, has never been more important. In other words, the quality of life has improved. At the same time, our relationship to death has evolved. Formerly familiar and present in everyday life – a death "appreciated" to take up the expression of historian Philippe Ariès – death is now medicalized and relegated out of society. The advances in medicine and new technologies, coupled with the increase in life-span, now pose unprecedented questions that previous generations could not consider. In this context, it is obviously understandable that demands to improve the quality of death are emerging in our fellow citizens. On such a delicate and sensitive and even intimate subject – as you said, Madam Minister – my deep conviction is that we must only legislate with caution and so to speak "with a trembling hand", to use Montesquieu's formula. This is indeed an issue that transcends and transcends much of the partisan divides. On this subject which refers to each person's personal experience, it is infinitely difficult to determine what could be the right position or approach. Should we indeed include the recognition of the right to die in the more general movement for the extension of fundamental rights, as called for by certain associations and a significant part of our fellow citizens? On the contrary, should we agree with the conviction of a Robert Badinter, who saw the right to life as "the first of human rights" and therefore considered that no one could dispose of the life of others? Moreover, how can we agree on a common definition of dignity? How can we also reconcile the duty of health professionals to avoid unnecessary suffering and the prohibition of deliberately causing death, enshrined in the Hippocrates' oath? Faced with these crucial issues, Parliament sought to improve the legislative framework for the end of life by adopting in 1999 the law to guarantee the right to access to palliative care, which established as principles the right of every patient to refuse treatment and the right to palliative care and support for any person whose condition so requires. The current legislative framework for the end of life was defined by the Leonetti Acts of 22 April 2005 and Claeys-Leonetti of 2 February 2016. They introduced the concept of therapeutic harassment and opened up the possibility of stopping care when it resulted from "unreasonable obstinacy". These laws undeniably represent progress towards a better consideration of the patient's will, with the introduction of the advance directives, which are now opposable, or the strengthening of the place of the person of trust, whose "witness prevails over any other testimony". They do not, however, respond to all situations and do not constitute a fully satisfactory answer to the question of the right to die for a growing number of our fellow citizens. According to data from the Institut national d'études démocratiques, every year, in France, between 2000 and 4000 people end their lives with active help to die from doctors. Justice is therefore often disarrayed by the mismatch between practices and the law. We all have in mind the many cases that have paid for the media and which can be regretted that they have sometimes led to hysterising the debate, often to the detriment of the patients themselves and their entourage. In my personal capacity, I am in favour of the development of legislation in this direction and of recognition of the right to die in dignity. I believe that the choice should be left to the person when he or she is able to express it or has left clear guidelines to that effect and when there is no hope of remission. In this respect, I have a reservation about the bill that you are defending, Madam rapporteur. In section 1 (r), you refer to the possibility given to a patient with a "serious or incurable condition" to apply for euthanasia or suicide assistance. In doing so, you greatly expand the scope and open the door to possible drifts: how can you define the field of serious diseases that can benefit from euthanasia? Mr Touraine rightly pointed out this, in the Committee on Social Affairs and again this evening: cancer is a serious disease and it is fortunately possible to cure it. This is a significant difference with other bills on the same subject from other benches in this House; I can't join you. It seems more appropriate to me, as Claeys-Leonetti's enforcement decrees date back only in August 2016, to give priority to the evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of this law. The guidelines presented by the 2015-2018 national three-year plan for the development of palliative care and end-of-life support highlighted the weak culture of palliative care in France. In particular, they noted significant inequalities in access to such care and stressed the need to reduce these by investing first in the knowledge and involvement of patients themselves. This is all the more necessary given that the Leonetti laws focus on the ability of the patient to retain control of decisions affecting him or her for the rest of his or her life. For example, only about 2.5% of our citizens are preparing advance directives, while they are the surest way to be heard when we are no longer able to speak directly and solve many difficult situations. The situation in residential institutions for dependent elderly people illustrates this. According to the "End of Life in EHPAD" study conducted by the National Centre for Palliative and End-of-Life Care, only 23.4% of residents who died in EHPAD are able to express themselves lucidly in their last 24 hours. In other words, in more than three quarters of situations, the anticipated collection of residents' end-of-life wishes is indispensable. We all have in mind the demographic projections for the coming years, which indicate a significant increase in the proportion of older people in the population. At the time of the presentation of the evaluation report on the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, together with Charlotte Lecocq, we had alerted about the gaps in the law and the shortcomings in the care of the dependent elderly within the EHPAD. In particular, we called for a reflection to create the conditions of "ageing well", which is intimately linked to the question of "death well". As part of our reflection on better care for addiction, the challenge of developing palliative care must have its full place, in order to provide dignified support for the end of life of our seniors. In parallel with a reflection on the right to die, it is therefore necessary to ensure the proper application of the existing legislative framework. Moreover, on such an engaging subject that refers to each other's personal experience, our group does not have a single voice. However, we are convinced that the discussion on this subject must take place in a calm and serene framework. The General Statements of Bioethics, organized under the auspices of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, have just begun and will be completed by the end of spring. We hope that they will allow the expression of all the sensitivities of our fellow citizens on this difficult issue, so that national representation will then be able to determine itself, if necessary, with clarity and measurement. For all these reasons, the rapporteur, we will abstain from this bill. Of course, you have put the subject back on the table, but we think we still need to discuss it before we decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u151	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u152	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, every drama in the media is an occasion for a passionate public debate, but this is only the part emerging from an iceberg of distress placing families, healthcare staff and the sick themselves daily in the face of difficult, sometimes equivocal and most often tragic decisions, whether it is to pass, in the clandestineity and silence of a service, the step of euthanasia, or to make the opposite choice while the patient insists on a liberating gesture. These difficult and painful debates are not limited to saying good and evil, just and unjust. There is nothing of obvious rationality – nor, moreover, radically new: Francis Bacon already, in 1605, suggested that the doctor's office was "not only to restore health but also to soften the pains and sufferings attached to diseases; and this not only as this softening of pain, considered a perilous symptom, contributes and leads to convalescence, but also in order to provide the patient, when there is no longer hope, with a gentle and peaceful death." This definition of what was then called "good death" precedes the term euthanasia and at the time refers, in terms of the definition given to them today, to palliative care. It was not until the end of the 19th century that the term took its modern meaning and delivered its two pendants: active euthanasia and passive euthanasia. In between, there is often the conscience of families, doctors, judges, too, whose case law sometimes condemns, sometimes relaxes. And then there is public opinion, shared on this question, each of us wondering, "What if it was me? » The question is not simple and it would be risky to reduce it to a struggle between progressives and conservatives. We would be wrong to fall into the caricature and ease of over-politicizing this debate. The extraordinary advances in medicine, the grip of science and technology place doctors, patients and families in the face of difficult and new choices every day. For several years the legislator has undertaken an important task of adapting our law. The Law of 22 April 2005 on the Rights of the Sick and the End of Life has legalized the possibility of stopping therapeutic harassment. Under the 14th legislature, the Act of 2 February 2016 created new rights for the sick and people at the end of their lives. The Claeys-Leonetti law lays down the principle that everyone has the right to a dignified end of life accompanied by the best possible soothing of suffering. This law of progress is aimed at the development of palliative care throughout the country. It opens up a right to deep and continuous sedation. It strengthens the status of advance directives and clarifies the mission of the trusted person. As we see it, society and the legislator have been working for years on this issue of a right, the right to choose, which requires lucidity, knowledge and repeated demands. All choices, if they can be made in this way, are worthy, whether or not one chooses to resort to these practices. Dignity is not in certain conditions of death; it is in the opportunity offered to each and everyone to choose. What is unworthy is not being able to choose. This is why this issue is intrinsically linked to the duty of society to accompany the patient through palliative care. There is indisputably, and above all else, a right to live in dignity, committing our social and moral responsibility. The issue of euthanasia cannot be addressed without unwaveringly linking it to palliative care. However, the effective implementation of such care suffers from geographical and inter-service inequalities, and from a culture that is still insufficiently shared, leading to inadequate care. A recent report by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – published in January 2017 highlighted that the risk of "absence or insufficiency of palliative care exists [...] for more than 75% of people" in need, i.e. approximately 300,000 people per year. This is considerable and unacceptable. At her hearing by the rapporteur, Jean-Luc Romero indicated that 48% of beds in palliative care units were concentrated in the Île-de-France region, where 18% of the French population lives. The development of palliative care must be a public health priority, because it is the sine qua non for patients to live well. The possibility of receiving, as well as refusing palliative care, is the possibility of a full exercise by the patient of his rights and freedom to choose. Linking euthanasia and palliative care also removes the argument of reducing euthanasia to bypass palliative care. On the other hand, the need for legislation on euthanasia and assisted suicide must also be examined in the light of existing practices in our country. According to a 2012 study by the Institut national d'études démographiques – INED, between 2000 and 4000 people in the terminal phase receive active help to die each year in France. You point out, Madam rapporteur, that "Jean-Luc Romero recalled, during his hearing, that today it is estimated that around 4000 clandestine euthanasias are practiced every year in catini in French hospitals, and that four fifths of them were not requested by the persons concerned". The absence of a legal framework, as we can see, exposes all the drifts. We also know that many French and French people go to countries where euthanasia or assisted suicide are allowed. The bill we are considering today is based on Belgian and Luxembourg laws. It legalizes euthanasia and assisted suicide, subject to procedures, for persons with a serious or incurable condition, and decriminalizes the participation of physicians in euthanasia or assisted suicide. This debate deserves to be conducted – and I thank those who initiated it for allowing us to have it this evening – so that a new right and freedom can come – because there is, behind the question of euthanasia, that is, the purest individual will, another question, just as fundamental: that of the meaning we want to give to freedom. Yes, this ultimate freedom deserves the consideration, respect and protection of society. "The desire for self-death is becoming increasingly rare. For a while, and it will become as rare as a personal life," wrote Rainer Maria Rilke. Your proposal for a law, in a way, aims to create a new right: that of self-death. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] On matters relating to life and death, the New Left group practises the freedom to vote, these choices being the responsibility of each person's conscience. However, a majority of our group is in favour of creating a new right to choose its end of life. This freedom must of course be regulated by strict conditions to avoid drifts. The personal choice of his death must be made with respect for all consciences. For my part, and on behalf of the New Left Group, I will vote, if I have the opportunity, for the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u153	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u154	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a proposal for a law to legalise euthanasia and suicide assistance for people with serious or incurable diseases obliges us, as legislators, to question the need for legislation and the contours and consequences of such a text. The supply of palliative care offered by our health care system has changed considerably in recent years. The goal of palliative care is to relieve physical pain and other symptoms, but also to take into account psychological, social and spiritual suffering. A Canadian health care home named Victor Gadbois, located in Montreal, says: "To care for people is not just to seek the causes of their suffering, it is to give them the hope that tomorrow will be better than yesterday." I agree with these principles. Our society and our Republic must allow everyone to be cared for with dignity. However, I must also note that, in some complex situations, the hope that tomorrow will be better than yesterday no longer exists, and nothing is possible. So, the ethics of the last care, the ethics of the right care must be set with temperance and lucidity. We need to hear the expectations of our fellow citizens. We also need to hear from health professionals, doctors, nurses and caregivers; We need to hear from volunteers who, who are invested on a daily basis in health facilities or in patients' homes, are accompanying people facing the disease. To date, as legislators, I cannot take a position on this subject of society, which requires the utmost caution on our part. Molière said, "We only die once; and it's for so long! " So let's just take the time, for a few months, to conduct a bioethics debate – a debate that will shed light on the expectations of our fellow citizens, who seem to want to see a better framework for end-of-life accompaniment, a debate that will shed light on other offers and possibilities than what is allowed today. A law of bioethics must be as fair as possible; It must be an appropriate, realistic and concrete text. In this regard, the law cannot be without the report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs or the National Ethics Advisory Committee, or without an assessment of the implementation and appropriation of the Leonetti laws of 2005 and Claeys-Leonetti of 2016. When we legislate, when we draft legislation, articles of law, amendments, we must have an objective of efficiency and assurance that the translation and appropriation of the law on the ground will be optimal and shared by all actors. We cannot legislate on euthanasia without ensuring that the genesis of the motivations of the law does not arise from a lack of supply or access to palliative care. Is the training of our palliative care caregivers identical in each institution, in each department, in each training school for professionals in the paramedical sector? Is the number of mobile palliative care teams sufficient to ensure appropriate care? To do this, we need to evaluate the national plan for the development of palliative care and end-of-life support, covering the years 2015 to 2018. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thus, identifying the obstacles to the deployment of a previous end-of-life law prior to a text would make it possible to draft a better law, if future bioethics debates concluded if necessary a new text. A law on the end of life and on assistance in dying cannot be conceived without a part reserved for the development of palliative care in our system of care. This must be complementary and no aspect must prevail over the other. Only the wills of the suffering people must be heard, which requires a fair access to the various offers of care. Dr. Thérèse Vanier said palliative care was "all that remains to be done when there is nothing left to do." So this evening, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, I will tell you that all that remains to be done is to recognize that everything remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u155	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u156	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the end of life is a complex and delicate subject, because it refers each of us to her intimate experience of accompanying a loved one, and I am convinced that we all want a calm and serene debate, which respects every path; I think that's the case tonight. The subject also appeals to our convictions and to our way of thinking about the life in society and the life of each person. This evening's debate allows our colleagues in France to clearly show their goal of seeing our country recognize euthanasia and assisted suicide. Like the rapporteur, Caroline Fiat, they defend their convictions with determination and consistency. It is with the same determination and consistency as those who, like me, are opposed to euthanasia and assisted suicide intervene in this debate to express and motivate their opposition. We would also like the parliamentary majority to show the same clarity. Are the majority groups in favour or against the text proposed to us today? Of course, the debate is probably not so Manichaean, and we can be in favour of the text under certain conditions or be opposed to it with exceptions. But on such a crucial subject, we have the right to know the clear intentions of the majority, since these intentions must not be hidden behind ambiguous pretexts of calendar. In the meantime, these debates will allow us to express different views, which is normal because these differences also cross our society. I would like to express three convictions, which are all different from the text before us. The first discrepancy relates to the timetable. A law was passed less than two years ago. Prior to any other initiative, it must be implemented, made better known and evaluated. Today, it is much more urgent to develop palliative care; Of course, plans are regularly announced in this area, but, as you have said, Minister, there is still much to be done on the ground to meet expectations and needs, and to address territorial inequalities. In this spirit, we could find ourselves in the bill that supports the plan to make palliative care the major national cause of 2018. We can take up this proposal supported by associations. We are already more than seventy, coming from five groups, having co-signed this bill. I would also like to point out that the whole of the La France insoumée group has joined in this process. In the opposite direction, we can only deplore the lack of support from the majority groups. It should also be noted that the majority groups even voted in committee against two amendments in which we proposed a report on the development of palliative care. The second divergence relates to the arguments raised. As far as the polls are concerned, let us beware of the way in which the questions are asked, as our colleague Alain Ramadier pointed out earlier. The methods used can effectively guide the responses. Also take care of surveys on social issues; So, are we going to table a bill to reinstate the death penalty, on the pretext that a majority of our fellow citizens would be in favour of it? These arguments must be used with extreme caution. The same is true when other countries are cited as examples: let us ignore at least the so-called ethical dumping that would lead us to align ourselves with countries that have neither our history nor our conception of bioethics. On the contrary, let us be proud of the French exception in the field of bioethics; Let us defend this ethical exception and reject the American and Anglo-Saxon logics imbued with individualism, ultraliberalism and utilitarianism. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The third difference concerns our conceptions of person and society. Yes, we have different views on the notion of dignity, for example. For us, dignity is intrinsic to and inseparable from the human person. For you, it is variable depending on the situation, it is random, it is contingent. From there, two conceptions of ethics unfold: on the one hand, an ethic of autonomy, based on absolute individual freedom, and on the other, a conception of ethics based on vulnerability, which takes into account fragility and dependence. As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, we defend this ethic of vulnerability in order to oppose this text, but we will also defend it throughout the debates that await us on bioethics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u157	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u158	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the management of the end of life has changed a great deal in recent years in our country, and it is happy. It is a subject that concerns our entire society, which is linked to our history, our common philosophical culture of death and our representation of it. At the same time, it is a very intimate subject, because it touches the deepest of our being, the physical and psychological suffering and the very essence of our existence. Technically, it is worth recalling the development of home hospital facilities, mobile palliative care teams, the trivialization of the use of morphines in hospitals and at home or in EHPADs, thanks to several plans to combat pain, without denying however the real difficulties that persist, due in particular to the blatant lack of staff. Let us also mention the trivialization of the use of midazolam, continuous flow pumps and pain scales, as well as the prevention of escarres and the improvement of the training of ever more demanding practitioners, within the framework of a now well-structured geriatric field giving university degrees in palliative care. Legally, the Leonetti Act, adopted in 2005, introduced an end-of-life framework through the advance directives and allowed recognition of the concept of "unreasonable obstinacy", which was finer and more precise than that of therapeutic harassment. Inspired by evidence based medicine, the concept is based on the patient's point of view and takes into account the patient, science data and context. The adoption of the bill by Alain Claeys and Jean Leonetti on 27 January 2016, following a joint concluding committee – I would like to stress this – has made it possible to take a new step forward by making it possible to achieve deep and continuous sedation. At the societal level, the philosophical, moral or cultural approach to the subject of our fellow citizens has evolved considerably. As all opinion polls show, nearly nine out of ten French are in favour of euthanasia. However, the generic nature of the term covers the reality of each situation, which is infinitely more complex. He raises many other questions: for whom – for himself or for his loved ones – and in what way? All these issues need to be discussed if we are to reach a peaceful and consensual text. If it is a subject with a profoundly humanistic dimension that can reach consensus in our Republic, it is that one. Can an enlightened society accept the risk of a form of commodification of suicide? Is deep and continuous sedation a satisfactory response to all situations of great suffering? Is the law which authorizes it, finally very recent, sufficiently well known? Has it been seriously evaluated? Nor should we ignore patients suffering from an incurable disease at an advanced stage, blocked in a kind of therapeutic impasse and sometimes forced to seek solutions in other countries to the more permissive legislation in this field. The subject of the bill that we are considering tonight deserves infinitely better than a stoning statement of reasons or a saviour vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u159	It is your words that are stoned – and outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u160	I therefore suggest, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, that the text be referred back to committee. I will add to the arguments that I have developed a cardinal data on palliative care decision-making: the absolute necessity of its collective and shared character. In this area, each decision must be taken after evaluation and consultation. Each party concerned must be able to give its opinion: the patient – through advance instructions – the person of trust, family members, relatives and all caregivers – doctors, nurses and caregivers. Decision-making, risk-taking and sometimes guilt must always be shared. At a time when the debate on the revision of bioethics laws has begun, even though the relevant regional ethical spaces for reflection on this subject have not been inaugurated, it is far too early to legislate. It would even be very damaging, it seems to me, to deprive oneself of the contributions of this collective intelligence. What do you think of the learned societies and the productions of the many citizen workshops? I sincerely believe that referring the text back to committee is, at this time, the wisest option. Finally, if one of the three pillars of our Republic, freedom – freedom of choice, freedom to end life or not – is to be taken into account in our reflection on the end of life, I would like to introduce to it another notion, less abrupt or definitive than euthanasia: the daily accompaniment of the sick, so dear to the community of caregivers, of which I have been a part for twenty-five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u161	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u162	They exercise every day, alongside the people concerned, the patients and their relatives, and take into account the singular and progressive nature of each situation. They enable concerted and transparent decisions to be taken, within a strictly legal framework, worthy of a modern society that is enlightened and concerned with the proper treatment of its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u163	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u164	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] A dignified end of life is an accompanied end of life, enjoying a well-made accompaniment in all respects, with attention, empathy, professionalism and consideration, without haste. On this subject too, let us not rush.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u165	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u166	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Of which the speaking time should be reduced to four minutes to compensate for the previous overrun!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u167	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill that brings us together tonight is serious. You are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, that we in the Group of the European People's Party should legislate on life and death. Legalizing euthanasia and assisted suicide raises a question of an essential society, which has concerned, concerns or concerns each of us and stems from our very conception of freedom – in this case, that of dying in dignity and alleviating our physical and psychic sufferings or those of a member of our entourage. The subject deserves to be examined, as the current legislation does not allow many cases to be dealt with. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum of the bill rightly recalls that silence and hypocrisy surround many assisted suicides carried out in hiding. This bill raises issues that go beyond the scope of the law. Does our life really belong to us? Do we really have our body to the point of being able to decide to absolve our life when suffering is intolerable and death is imminent? These issues, which are intimate, ethical and philosophical, will have to be discussed in this House in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u168	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u169	Our assembly has already responded to this on several occasions, notably by passing the Kouchner law in 1992, the Leonetti law in 2005 and the Claeys-Leonetti law in 2016. All have placed the patient at the centre of the decisions that concern him. Thus, a patient can no longer be subjected to treatment that he or she would not want and remains in control of the decisions about him or her. The purpose of the introduction of advance directives and the appointment of a trusted person is to guarantee this right, regardless of the patient's state of consciousness. While I am personally committed to legislative developments with regard to the end of life, it seems essential to me, however, not to rush when it comes to such a crucial issue of society, which arose from the essence and very conception of the human condition. It therefore seems preferable to await the conclusions of the progress report on the Claeys-Leonetti Act commissioned by the Minister of Health at the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and of the report on the end of life prepared by the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which is scheduled to be published in April 2018. It also seems essential to me to await the conclusions of the newly-engaged states of bioethics, which are opening up a period of public debate in each region, bringing together experts and citizens. The expected results of this unprecedented consultation will have to inform this assembly during the revision of the law of 7 July 2011 on bioethics which will follow. The crucial issue of the end of life will, of course, be addressed. Notwithstanding this societal debate, it is essential to ensure the full implementation of the current framework of the law, which already allows everyone to express their final wishes. It is important that the existing system be fully utilized. Moreover, the National Follow-up Committee for the Development of Palliative Care and End-of-Life Care is working on the application of the law in the territory. The law of 2 February 2016 creating new rights for sick people and people at the end of their lives is still recent. Perhaps it still takes a little time for health professionals to integrate it into their practices and for our fellow citizens to know all their new rights. In addition, the notion of accompaniment should not be avoided in the last moments of life, so that every effort is made to alleviate the physical and psychological suffering of patients. Palliative care, inseparable from the end of life, must mobilize us. This is the whole issue of the government plan. The means allocated to them must live up to the suffering that must be alleviated and the dignity that must be preserved. Like you, colleagues in the La France group, we are mobilized on these issues. We believe that the law can evolve to allow those who feel that their death is imminent to choose, including how they die, without suffering and in dignity. It is about the freedom of everyone to dispose of their own body, while guaranteeing an informed and supervised patient's decision and preserving the freedom of conscience of medical personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject is serious enough to merit a longer and more in-depth reflection, in the context of a debate to the height of the stakes, a debate which cannot be held now and in such a reduced format. No, Mr. Corbière, we're not afraid to face death. Just accept that some decisions deserve time for reflection, analysis and discussion. It is necessary to ensure that citizens, patients and doctors are heard and respected. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Be certain, ladies and gentlemen, that once this time has passed, we will be present to discuss with you, here, the legislative developments necessary to respect a dignified end of life, bringing to death this quiet look dear to Jaurès. For these reasons, I call for the bill to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u170	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u171	I repeat, after having said it in committee and in my opening remarks, that the Claeys-Leonetti Act and this bill should not be opposed, each of which is of importance. The repeated requests for evaluation of the Claeys-Leonetti law from the benches of the majority – including those of the MODEM group – leave me puzzled. We discussed six amendments this morning, most of which were tabled by members of the Republican Group. I have issued a favourable opinion on the six.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u173	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Either you do not read the amendments before they are discussed in committee and you vote against because of my favourable opinion, or you do not know how to read, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Indeed, there is a real problem: these six amendments proposed exactly what you called for in the rostrum. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u175	They were examined under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u176	The Claeys-Leonetti law is insufficient. Anne Bert herself described her last fall as a "eye powder" for the sick at the end of their lives. Indeed, it is hardly applied. The president of the National Centre for Palliative and End-of-Life Care has even indicated during her hearing that she places caregivers in a situation of malaise because the guides it provides have not yet been published by the High Health Authority. I understand that the multi-year national plan for the development of palliative care is being implemented. Nevertheless, I am considering issuing a favourable opinion on many amendments incorporating certain provisions of the bill, submitted by several members of the Republicans Group, aimed at making palliative care a major national cause. With regard to arbitrary euthanasia resulting from the abandonment of admissibility criteria, I note that the Luxembourg law of 16 March 2009 on euthanasia and assisted suicide does not include the term "incurable". However, the number of euthanasias and assisted suicides did not explode in Luxembourg; On the contrary, it remains at a stable and marginal proportion of 0,2 % of the total number of deaths. With regard to the argument that it is necessary to await the publication of various reports and the conclusions of the States General, I note that it is made on a recurring basis. You always have to wait! However, this week you have made decisions about the EHPADs, the minister, which are also unsatisfactory in my view, even though the information report that Monique Iborra and I are working on has not yet been published. It is therefore not necessary to wait until the reports are published.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u179	It's not exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u180	Allow me also, ladies and gentlemen, not to generalise the view of Frédéric mentioned earlier. If you had attended the hearing of Mr Romero, my colleague, you would know that more than half of those admitted to palliative care units maintain their initial request to die despite the care they receive. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the definition of a dignified end of life is a matter for everyone. If I asked you, all of you sitting on these benches, to put it down on paper, I can assure you that I would get as many different definitions as there are of Members in this House, because such a definition is personal. No one can define the dignified end of life instead of someone else. That is why we must accept that it means for some euthanasia and for others natural death.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u181	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u182	This debate really deserves attention. In this regard, I am impressed by the quality of the presentations we have heard this evening. We are all aware of the importance of the subject, which prohibits dealing with it from an ideological point of view. I happen to have had a long conversation with Mrs. Bert, shortly before her death. I shared my professional experience with him: as a hematologist, I treated many patients at the end of my life. I was struck by the fact that many of these patients no longer demand euthanasia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u184	In our discussions, we must take into account the complexity of human feelings in the face of death. I have also spoken with Mrs Bert about the Claeys-Leonetti law, which, in my opinion, answers – the report we are waiting for will tell us whether or not it is applied everywhere – to 95% of the requests: those of patients with incurable and end-of-life diseases, that is to say, patients with terminal cancers. The Claeys-Leonetti Act does not respond to requests from patients such as Ms. Bert, who have neurodegenerative diseases, in this case amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This represents relatively few people, but they may want to anticipate the end of life as appreciated by the medical profession. It should be borne in mind that Ms. Bert's request was specific. Its scope was narrow, and this debate should not be enlarged too much. In particular, in your text, the rapporteur, you speak of a "serious or incurable" illness. The conjunction "or" seems to me to be a problem. This is the question of the cursor: what is a serious illness? It is also the question of the guilt of a person with a disability, as well as the guilt of his family. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] When we are healthy, my professional life has shown me, these debates are easier than when we approach death. Further discussions seem to me necessary, and that is why I support the referral of this bill to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u185	I have received a motion from Mr. Sébastien Chenu to reject in advance pursuant to rule 91, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u186	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after a few months of listening in this Chamber to our colleagues in France who are insoubted to defend "another vision of society", I was surprised to see them defending a bill designed to legalise euthanasia and assisted suicide. Understand my astonishment: while I still thought you attached to the idea that everything in a society could not be controlled by the market, measured by social utility and sorted by economic profitability, I discover this bill. I respect her, but she's breaking that vision of things. How far it is, the time when the idea of gift and counter-donation, developed by Marcel Mauss, father of French anthropology, was on its way! How far it is, the time when you considered, like him, that founding a society on economism was an unacceptable civilizational choice! That it is far away, the time when you did not consider man as a link in the chain of all-economics, and when you took into account idealism and political spirituality that could put humanity in motion! In fact, with this bill, you agree with the materialistic doxa defended by the political liberalism that you pretend to fight, according to which everything is material and merchant. Tell me, in your ideal future, what place do you reserve for man? For it is necessary to be naive to believe that it is freedom that underlies this text. Your proposal for a law on assisted suicide is part of a profound materialism. In the vision that guides your project, the people who are suffering in our society, especially the older people, who no longer find social utility, who can no longer produce, should be able to be excluded from society by death. This is even more serious when this feeling is imposed by society itself. "I knew only poor people, that is to say people whose death nobody cares about," Céline wrote. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u187	Ah, the best writers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u188	You thus accredit what Jacques Attali wrote in 1981: "As soon as he exceeds sixty-six-five years, man lives longer than he produces and he costs society dearly. Old age is currently a market, but it is not solvent. Euthanasia will be one of the essential instruments of our future societies in all cases." This ideology is a maxim: man is interchangeable; It is above all a factor of production. Your proletarian internationalism was already of the order of the sans-frontiérism, you today bend philosophically before another axiom: that of the attalism, of which you become the surety.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u189	Don't abuse it, though! Speak for yourself, not for others!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u190	It's completely out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u191	As proof, I would like to refer to section 1 of your bill, which provides that a person suffering physically or mentally unbearably may choose to be euthanized by a doctor. You bend your knee in the face of the most individualistic liberalism by allowing everyone to put an end to his or her life, without any right to look at the rest of society. As if this decision only looked at the individual, not all the women and men who make up the social fabric. Yet it is man's place in society that is at stake: therefore, this is an anthropologically serious choice, which cannot be made by each person alone, and perhaps even less so when that person suffers and is in a terrible state of vulnerability. Individual freedom cannot be the only principle of a society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u192	You're confusing freedom and liberalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u193	This is freedom of conscience! Anyway, your political project is not Republican.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u194	Colleagues, I am a Member of Parliament from the North and I often look at Belgium, which sometimes offers us sad examples; This is particularly the case with its policy of euthanasia and assisted suicide, which has been in place for several years now. It turns out that the legislative arsenal you wish to see adopted by our House is relatively similar to that of our neighbour. But the record of this policy is certainly good, if not excellent economically, but it is ethically and socially catastrophic. For example, I would like to share with you the story of Laura, a young Belgian woman whose life was told by Le Figaro. Laura was born into a complicated family: alcohol, violence, abuse... She's taken up by her grandmother while she's still a child. From this age, his mental suffering is immense, and doctors struggle to relieve her. She discovers the practice of theatre, which appeases her and allows her to contemplate life in a new way; Unfortunately, following a break-up in love, she fell into depression several years later. Placed in a Belgian psychiatric hospital, on the proposal of a doctor, she discovers a young woman herself depressive who wishes to be euthanized – because this is possible in Belgium, since 2002. Inspired by this example, after a request from a doctor, Laura initiates the process to be euthanized herself. Helped, she'll finally give it up. This example has touched me and seems to me quite appalling: instead of relieving this young girl and enabling her to live in dignity, she is encouraged to go to suicide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u195	You're saying that she gave it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u196	Instead of helping her get out of her psychological prison and guide her to her freedom, the door to life is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u197	And say you're for the death penalty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u198	Your bill opens up a deep breach in our conception of man, in what our society can be. You risk that other Lauras, devastated by complicated lives, may be able to put out the light, because they themselves consider their depression to be an unbearable psychic suffering. [[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and FI groups]] I recognize that killing someone is easier than treating him, but let me not choose this philosophy of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u199	Mr. Chenu...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u200	Moreover, the Belgian example is indicative of the progressive shift in the law: not only incurable people are being killed today, but also people who are only ill in their skin; There are a large number of drifts. A Belgian study conducted by the Free University of Brussels and the University of Ghent revealed that 27% of euthanasia in Flanders and 42% of euthanasia in Wallonia are practised without any declaration to the authorities. The same study specifies that, often, a second doctor is not even consulted to authorize the practice of euthanasia, even though this is normally mandatory under Belgian law. The opening of this right to euthanasia and assisted suicide opens a real Pandora's box. We begin by proposing the strict minimum, but gradually we take more and more difficult measures to frame, with ever more important consequences – and much more serious than the authors of these proposals themselves imagine. This is exactly what happened in Belgium: whereas the law on euthanasia and assisted suicide was exclusively for adults in 2002, when the law was adopted, it was extended to children in 2014. This policy of small steps makes us change our world; our balance is upset, like our idea of respect for individual freedoms. We are moving towards a world that is now regulated only by financial and economic contingencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u201	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u202	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u203	To govern is to foresee; legislation is also to provide for. So know what a future might be where your bills would be voted and implemented – even if they involve the reflection of each and open up a sensitive and trans-partisan debate, in which each expression is respectable. National representation had already adopted the Leonetti II Act, which, however, was opening up a first breach. In fact, deep sedation was no longer used to relieve patients in pain, but to cause death. It was a disguised euthanasia, and the law did not provide for any clauses of conscience for doctors. It is this law that leads us today to debate assisted suicide. It takes courage to refuse these drifts; legislators must be mobilized to defend a message of life, to proclaim the dignity of people, regardless of their situation and age. I do not see how he is worthy to abandon a person by pushing him to a request for euthanasia. The dignity of man is above all to look after the weakest of us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u204	Except when it comes to irregular migrants!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u205	...and it is at the same time recognizing that we are not all powerful and accepting to be helped by others. Human life has an end; This one must be worthy. But how can we remain human if we cannot exercise our humanity? Yes, the elderly person at the end of his life, the terminally ill person or the young depressive person ill in his or her skin have a place in our society – a place that is so important, because they all allow other members of society to fully exercise their humanity. Suffering must be taken into account, and all means used to alleviate it must be taken into account. No, I don't think that being a burden for his children or society is unworthy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u206	We just want to give the freedom to choose, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u207	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the REM and FI groups]] In reality, this parliamentary initiative is symptomatic of our society's reaction to the major challenges facing us. We hide the problems: rather than treating the patient, we prefer to kill him, or even – it's more serious – we prefer to push him to ask to be killed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u208	Stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u209	We defend freedom of choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u210	[[Same movements]] I recognize that to manage the end of life, euthanasia is simpler and less expensive. But to promote this easy solution, is that what gives meaning to our society?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u211	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, LR, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, our debate on this particularly human and sensitive subject has been very worthy so far. Please, let's keep the same tone, let's avoid the invective. Let us respect everyone's opinions, and let us listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u212	I respect everyone's opinions. Respect mine, because I think he's respectable. I represent a part of the French. We need to look for alternatives, probably more complicated to implement, probably more expensive as well, but above all more humane. As parliamentarians, we must be ambitious. An increase in funding for palliative care should have been proposed, i.e. for palliative care, which is intended to alleviate the pain and suffering of people who are ill or at the end of their lives. Doctors are insufficiently trained in such care; the means are reduced and access to palliative care units, the USP, is very difficult. According to a report published by the National Ethics Advisory Committee in 2014, there is even a "non-respect of the right of access to palliative care for the vast majority of people at the end of their lives" in France. Indeed, almost 80% of people who would like to benefit from it would not have a place in USP. Not only are the structures inadequate, but they are also unevenly distributed throughout the territory, with 70 per cent of beds concentrated in five regions. In terms of health, the territorial divide is terrible. It is also necessary to hear some experts explain that, if someone is properly cared for at the end of their life, they no longer automatically ask for euthanasia. Let us remember Andromaque and his "laughter in tears": the strength of life is often so strong. As for the polls you refer to, I do not consider them sincere, since the alternative they propose is the choice between atrocious suffering and euthanasia. But other solutions exist, even if they are, it is true, more expensive. Beyond that, we must better recognize the distress of all people suffering from psychological or psychological disorders. Above all, we must be able to train more psychiatrists – we are facing a shortage today. But the general practitioners are of good will, but they are not trained to take care of these sufferings. We still need to increase the means of housing for dependent elderly people, which are completely inadequate. I tell you frankly: two days after the EHPAD staff strike denouncing a lack of resources, proposing such a text seems to me to be of a perfect taste. Even the more liberal member on the right of this House would not have dared! Today there are solutions to accompany people to death at the end of their lives. Today we know how to technically relieve pain, but it is especially important to change mentalities, to change our eyes on our elders or patients. Not only is life hard, but it is short. It is urgent – and, to return to my remarks at the beginning, I am surprised that it is our colleagues in La France who propose this text – to abandon this utilitarian vision of man. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote on this motion of rejection because this text is not only inappropriate but probably dangerous for our society, for the vision of the man it defends. We must not save on all the accompanying solutions I have mentioned. Yes, there are things to do to help the most fragile of us to go through the stage of death as peacefully as possible. Euthanasia and assisted suicide are not solutions, unless your vision of society boils down to economic contingencies. "Each generation, no doubt, believes it is dedicated to re-establishing the world. Mine knows that it won't do it again. But maybe his job is bigger. It consists of preventing the world from falling apart," said Albert Camus. In order for the world of men not to be defeated for the benefit of the world of money, I propose that you vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u213	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u214	I will be brief because Mr Chenu obviously did not read my report. I deplore, like Professor Didier Sicard, a "evolution of social representations leading to a life being considered valid only when it is "useful", when the person does, acts, produces, or even is profitable". On page 19, it says: "The rapporteur wants us to focus more on the end of life so that the growing lack of interest in the people who are returning to the final stage of their lives can cease. It wants their choices to be heard and taken into account. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For the rest, I have no lesson in humanism to receive, especially from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u216	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on this motion, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor, in the case of the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u217	I thank all the colleagues who have accepted fairly good thanks – I believe – for the idea that in this debate the dividing lines do not correspond to the political groups. I congratulate my colleague Caroline Fiat for allowing the debate to take place in these terms in a realistic and measured manner. We can only oppose our poor reasonings to the absolute and constant enigma of human identity, which wants one day life to stop. In response to this determination, there are all the philosophical principles that we demand from each other. I regret the fact that the author of the motion for prior rejection felt compelled to make such a caricature. Those who speak of euthanasia or assisted suicide naturally never wanted to impose such an option on anyone. Moreover, individual freedom has always been presented as a refusal of nature. In order to deny women the right to dispose of their bodies, it was argued either of the nature or that their children also belonged to their husbands or families, until the idea that they belonged to themselves was necessary. In order to belong, the principle of individuation must be valid until the end. We pretend not to impose our principles but to open freedom to those who claim the principle of free self-determination in front of what the Stoics called events against which nothing can be done. Human dignity means, when you can no longer fight anything, that you remain free because you can put an end to it by your death. Yes, we demand the right to assisted suicide and euthanasia. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I will conclude by referring to Spinoza. Thought will always be more than the thinking body, but it will never be without the thinking body. When the body can no longer think otherwise than in pain, it is it that dominates you and not you that dominates it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u218	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u219	Unfortunately, the exercise that we have just attended was very confusing and confusing, sometimes surprising and not always intelligible to me. Of course, we will not join the motion to reject because we believe that the debate we have started this evening is necessary. This debate is taking place in society. We must give it an extension here and make the best decisions, informed, educated and argued to face the questioning that is going through our people. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I welcome the holding of this discussion, which, in my view, calls for developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u220	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u221	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] We are not in favour of this motion to reject. It is indeed desirable for this question to be taken up and analysed in this Chamber after the consultation which is being organised. We therefore propose a referral back to committee and not a prior rejection of this text. Referral to committee would allow us in the future, once enriched by citizen reflection, to analyse the views and various bills that have been tabled on the same topic in order to determine where to place the cursor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u222	The next speaker is Mr Brahim Hammouche, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u223	The MODEM Group will vote against this motion of rejection. Indeed, it is a matter of trying to answer – and the debates have been up to date – the so intimate and personal question of death. The extraordinary complexity of the end of life requires a deeply humble attitude and caution. To legislate on this subject, one must have in mind this maxim of Montaigne: "If we need a wise woman to be born, we need an even wiser man to get out of it. The Leonetti Act of 22 April 2005 and, more recently, the Claeys-Leonetti Act of 2 February 2016 attempted to answer the essential questions posed by the end of life. They were adopted in a consensual manner. However, 89% of the French today aspire to the completion of the current legislative framework. The MODEM Group is convinced that this important debate must take place. We'll take our share. We are also convinced that we must take the time to listen not only to caregivers but also to our fellow citizens, all our fellow citizens, regardless of their religious or philosophical beliefs. The debate must not be confiscated. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] That is why we hope that genuine consultation will take place. It is not a question of asking for the definitive withdrawal of the draft law of the group La France insubmissive but of agreeing on its postponement in order to debate on this major subject within the framework of the general statements of bioethics. The MODEM Group will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u224	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u225	I shall vote against this motion of rejection in principle because Parliament is and must remain the privileged place for democratic debate. On the substance, while I disagree with some of the provisions of this text, I welcome the approach: it has the merit of raising key issues that we still need to discuss, in a climate as calm and calm as this evening's.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u226	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u227	The New Left Group will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u228	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u229	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u230	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the findings, arguments and various proposals have been set out. Indeed, one cannot be satisfied with the "bad death" in France. Indeed, palliative care and other accompaniment to death must be developed. Should this be the end of it? No. In fact, only 11% of French people are satisfied with the current legislation, according to the FIFG survey published in La Croix. It is 2000 to 4000 French who each year receive active help to die in our hospitals, in total illegality, without any transparency and without knowing how many of them have given their consent. It is still a large number of our fellow citizens who will seek the ultimate relief, the deliverance, in one of the countries neighbouring France, which preceded us in this legislative advance. People and doctors are still reluctant to euthanasia and assisted suicide today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u231	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u232	Their conviction must be respected. None of them will be associated with these new practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u233	For now!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u234	The conscience clause frees them from any obligation. Can they, however, permanently prohibit the majority of French people from having access to free choice? Do they not have the same ethical obligation to respect the free choice of others? On the subject of access to euthanasia, ladies and gentlemen, we are not completely unanimous. Therefore, propose to coexist the main possibilities in a rigorous framework and let each Frenchman choose his own destiny. What brutality, what humiliation is imposed upon a sick person when he is refused to hear his pleas, when he is made to understand that his freedom was withdrawn from him at the entrance to the hospital! The 1975 French society finally heard the need to allow women the free disposition of their bodies. The voluntary termination of pregnancy has been legalized and we have come out of the hypocrisy characterized by widespread practice but a prohibited display. Not all agreed with this development, but mutual respect between supporters and opponents was established. For the end of life, the exit of hypocrisy is even more expected, the confrontation between supporters and opponents is less violent, the inevitable nature of the right to choice is perceived even by those who do not want to resort to it. We can therefore be confident in a forthcoming breakthrough, which will pay tribute to all the activists of this humanist cause, known or anonymous, isolated or gathered in association – such as ADMD – religious or atheists, seeking an outcome in France or abroad – Vincent Humbert, Chantal Sébire, Marie Deroubaix, Anne Bert and many others. Should we legislate tonight? Many of you have answered no to this question. Whether or not you are in favour of active help to die, you have noticed the immense momentum, the strong mobilization, the appetite of our fellow citizens to debate these issues. At a time when our fellow citizens are rushing into regional ethical reflection spaces to participate in an unrivalled dialogue at the invitation of the National Ethics Advisory Committee; at a time when multiple and in-depth hearings are being held by the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the Social Affairs Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices and various bodies; At a time when a precise assessment is being conducted by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, and when citizens' petitions and consultations are being organised, could it be that we have an insulting slap on everyone, scorning their work and arrogantly claiming that, on a question of society, we would weigh more than millions of French? No, we have a duty to listen to the reflections, questions, and aspirations of the French. We know that our fellow citizens want a peaceful end to life, without pain, if possible at home and especially surrounded by their loved ones. Many also want to decide, when the time comes, the modalities of their death, but where should the cursor be placed? When one is at the end of a real life, in a total therapeutic impasse, as I believe? Or, potentially, in an earlier phase, as soon as a serious illness has occurred, as you suggest, Madam rapporteur? Cancers, as I said earlier, are serious diseases, but half of them are susceptible to cure. I would add that, if your proposal had been applied, for example, to AIDS patients who had been diagnosed in 1994 or 1995, some of them would have put an end to their lives, while many are now alive, thanks to the appearance of triple therapy from the beginning of 1996. Like you, the rapporteur, I look forward to legislating on these issues, but their importance does not allow any mistakes, no amateurism: lives or modalities of pacified death are involved. We can't improvise. Let us take the time – a few months at most – to hear from all our fellow citizens. I would add that there is an additional reason to argue for a small delay: today, some reluctance or inertia still exists among healthcare professionals. But their role in the system is important, even if the decision must be made by the patient. A little time of psychological preparation, through the debates of these months, will allow a better appropriation of the measures we choose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u235	It's rehab!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u236	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The referral of your text to the committee, the rapporteur, is in no way a disavowal: it is an incentive for joint reflection with the various French groups, for the search for a peaceful solution, without polemic confrontation, for an improvement of the measures offered at choice. It is not a refusal, but a small delay, the time to gather the expression of the French. The law that will result will be better and better understood as it will proceed from such a collective effort. Our country will then be able to propose a text taking into account the various foreign experiences and the rich and diverse opinions of the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u237	[[Exclaims on FI and NG benches]] In accordance with Rule 50(4) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall be adjourned at one o'clock in the morning, I shall adjourn the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u238	We had to stop the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u239	It will be up to the Conference of Presidents to set the conditions for further discussion of this bill. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the quality of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1133.u240	Next sitting, Tuesday, 6 February, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law ratifying various ordinances taken on the basis of Act No. 2017-1340 of 15 September 2017 authorizing the measures to be taken by order for the strengthening of social dialogue; Discussion of the draft law on the protection of personal data. The meeting is adjourned.
