ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u1	The next item is the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019 (No. 1408, 1440). At the request of the Government, pursuant to article 95, paragraph 4, of the regulation, the discussion of article 8 of the draft law, on the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – and the wage tax credit – CITS – is reserved. This discussion will take place tomorrow after questions to the Government. The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u2	If we meet today to review the 2019 Social Security Funding Bill again, it is because of the differences in the Senate between the majority and the main parliamentary opposition. So allow me, ladies and gentlemen, not to repeat what was said during the first reading debates with the Minister of Solidarity and Health – who will join us – to give me a succinct analysis of the text that the Senate has just transmitted to the Assembly. A first major divergence emerges regarding financial balances. Whether it is 2018 or 2019, the Senate recognizes that the improvement of social security accounts has been confirmed and that it is expected to continue for the long term. Indeed, for the first time since 2001, the PLFSS deposited by the Government presents social security accounts in excess of 700 million euros. As I had the opportunity to highlight in front of you at first reading, social security is fully involved in controlling our public spending, in line with our goal of reducing public spending by 3 points throughout the quinquennium: the ONDAM of 2018 will be held, as social security spending will increase by 2 % in 2019 against an expected rate of 2.3%. Exceptionally, as you voted, ONDAM will be increased to 2.5 per cent in 2019, on the Government's proposal, to invest in the hospital and to transform our health care system in depth to ensure its sustainability and to ensure the quality of care. I would like to make it clear that this is in line with the announcements made by the President of the Republic. I would add that the state is responsible for 30 per cent of public expenditure, local authorities are responsible for just under 20 per cent and the social sphere is responsible for about 50 per cent. Members of Parliament are therefore working here on a matter that directly affects our citizens, since it affects family affairs, retirement, social security and unemployment insurance, which, I repeat, represents 50% of public expenditure. It must therefore be noted that, on this first point, the Senate majority did not choose responsibility, but to considerably degrade the copy given by your assembly at the end of its first reading examination, and it did so for essentially political reasons. Another divergence concerns the political balance of the text. I will take several examples. On the one hand, the Senate blames us for the "virtual" nature of the surpluses of social security and, on the other, it wished to reconsider the mechanism for indexing benefits on forecast inflation, which Alain Milon, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and member of the Senate majority, nevertheless acknowledged the effectiveness. I would add that, in order to compensate for the loss of revenue, the Senate majority chose to increase taxation. The Senate has thus increased taxes on complementary bodies, which, you will agree, given the scale of the levy, will not fail to be passed on to the French. Indeed, at a time when our compatriots are demonstrating a tax burden, this tax on complementary bodies is, to say the least, wrong. On the one hand, the Senate understands that the preparation of the pension reform, led by Mr.Delevoye, is subject to special precautions – and the Government intends to take the time of the consultation – and, on the other hand, the Senate majority, unfortunately, proposes to raise sharply, without any debate, as of May 1, 2019, the legal retirement age to sixty-three years – an amendment that has not been adopted by all senators in the majority group. This is not the choice made by the Government and the majority, who prefer consultation and the length of time for structural reform. In the same way, the Senate has decided to reinstate the unemployment insurance contributions by having them paid by employers, a measure which has the dual disadvantage of not being favourable to employees or employers. More broadly, on the one hand, Members of the Republican Group claim to subscribe to the objective of reorganising our public accounts; On the other hand, the same group has tabled, at first reading, several amendments whose overall cost exceeds understanding and aggravates – excuse my bad word – debt. Among these amendments, I will mention the re-establishment of the exemption and defiance scheme for overtime – EUR 4.1 billion –; the entry into force on 1 January of the exemption from overtime and overtime contributions – EUR 1.3 billion –; the reduction of sickness contributions by 6 points up to SMIC 3 – EUR 7 billion; the abolition of the carry-over of general relief to 1 October – EUR 2.3 billion –; the restoration of the old CSG rates on replacement income – EUR 4.5 billion –; abrogation of the social contribution of solidarity of societies, the C3S – 3.8 billion euros. It must be noted that the majority of Members of the LR Group, while wishing to reduce public expenditure, would here aggravate the balance of more than EUR 15 billion and therefore do not show responsibility. We therefore wish to return to the balances reached during the first reading. Indeed, the text advocated by the parliamentary majority was intended to be more balanced while at the same time allowing the financing of the Government's priorities. First of all, we really want to improve the purchasing power of our citizens by, in particular, exempting social contributions from overtime and supplementary work from 1 September, thanks also to the encouragement of wage savings schemes, mentioned in particular during the discussion of the draft law on business growth and transformation, says PACTE. Secondly, we want to make significant progress in favour of families, whether it is to strengthen the support available to families with children with disabilities or to harmonise the arrangements for the compensation of self-employed women and self-employed women for maternity leave with those applicable to women employees – this is a major social measure. We want to combat social inequalities in order to improve the access of the French to care by implementing the first measures of the anti-poverty plan presented by the President of the Republic, by introducing the remainder to zero charge in the optical, dental and audiology sectors, by strengthening the support mechanisms for complementary health care in order to ensure equal access to care for the most vulnerable people. As you wish, rapporteur-general, we must invest in the transformation of our health system in order to promote access to therapeutic innovation and to meet the major challenges facing the welfare state of tomorrow. I would also like to take this opportunity to tell you how usefully the majority worked in close cooperation with the Government, as evidenced by the many advances made in the preparation of the text, in its consideration at first reading, in committee and in public meetings. Among these, I will mention the mitigation of the effects of the abolition of the "occasional workers-job seekers" – TODE scheme; an amendment by the Government, pursuant to the PACTE Act, which encourages the dissemination of wage savings schemes in enterprises with fewer than 50 employees and develops the conclusion of interest agreements for enterprises with 50 to 250 employees; an amendment raising the remuneration threshold from which the exemption from employer contributions is degressive for companies employing home helpers – a proposal which has been the subject of broad consensus –; Finally, an amendment by Mr Mesnier exempting from the CSG and the CRDS the income from capital of persons affiliated with a social security scheme of another Member State of the European Union, following on from Mrs Genetet's report on taxation of non-residents. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You will have understood that, from the point of view of budgetary and political balances, it is up to us, and it is up to you, to restore, for the most part, the text which the Assembly adopted at first reading – the French will thank you – because it combines the consolidation of our social finances and the fulfilment of our commitments, because it allows us to preserve our social security system to which our citizens are legitimately attached, and finally because it allows it to be modernised by giving it the means to face the great challenges of the welfare state of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u3	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u4	So we're here to discuss the new reading of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. I will not be long since I will have the opportunity to speak in the coming hours and days and to the extent that much has already been said in the first reading. However, I will return to the points on which we were unable to reach agreement with our fellow senators at the conclusion of the Joint Joint Committee. In addition to these disagreements, I would like first of all to commend the work done by the Senate, noting that fifty articles have been adopted in conformity, in particular those relating to the financial balance sheet, as well as essential articles such as those relating to the desocialization of overtime, the increase of the supplement to the mode of care for families with a child with disabilities, among other measures favourable to purchasing power. However, three points made an agreement with senators impossible. The first is the decline in the retirement age to sixty-three years, voted by the senatorial majority, which does not correspond to the President's plan, nor to the wishes of the parliamentary majority, nor to the work carried out by Jean-Paul Delevoye, just a few months before the launch of a structural reform of pensions. We therefore want the retirement age to be again set at sixty-two years. The second point concerns the restoration of wage contributions of almost 2.5% – that is, the restoration of unemployment and health insurance contributions – even though we abolished them last year. Increasing or restoring wage contributions is reducing purchasing power and it is increasing the payroll of millions of employees, especially since no compensation has been foreseen, in this case compensation from CSG. This would result in a dry loss of purchasing power. One can be surprised by listening to the speech of some leaders of the parliamentary right, but that is a fact. The majority do not approve of the plan to increase wage contributions by 2.5%. The third point of disagreement is the creation of a super-tax on complementary health insurance and mutual insurance. I say "super-tax", because it is still almost 1.5 billion euros that the Senate right wishes to levy every year more on complementary health care. We dare not imagine the impact of this measure on the purchasing power of the French. Again, it is surprising when one hears on the benches of the right the expression of fears – and the word is weak – about the possible impact of the remaining zero charge on the cost of the complements. However, from this point of view, we have been reassuring and Minister Agnès Buzyn has made it clear that such a measure would cost 250 million euros – which is also fully compensated. For these three major reasons – there were others – we did not agree, which does not prevent me from stressing, once again, the quality of the work of our fellow senators to the point that we will not have to go back to half of the text because it was voted in conformity. We will have the opportunity to discuss the transformation of the CICE. Many of the amendments tabled by the opposition concern both the overseas and the agricultural issues, on which Minister Darmanin has just recalled the position of the Government and the majority – I am thinking of the balance found at first reading on the TODE scheme. On health, we'll talk about emergencies, we'll talk about generics. I regret that honourable senators have come back to legislation to generalize the use of generics and to develop what is known as hybrid drugs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I told you that I would not be very long, so as not to unnecessarily prolong the debate. In my personal capacity, I am pleased to meet with you to continue the debate that began at first reading and to incorporate the progress of senators. There are some in the text that we will be proposing to adopt, as the Committee on Social Affairs has already chosen some of them. This is the sign that we are able to work in concert, in coherence, with the oppositions, when this is done in good conditions and that it is in the general interest, in any case, of the idea that we are making of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u5	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u6	[["We don't either! »on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Government proposes a new reading of the Social Security Financing Bill. First of all, know that I'm not an intellectual, like many of you, that I didn't do Sciences Po or ENA. I don't have +10, like many of you. But I have a heart full of fraternity and love for mine. It is with my heart that I express myself before you. I do not intend to deal with your bill to finance social security, because for me it is primarily a bill of social insecurity. So I'm going to talk to you about La Réunion, my island, which is in arrears, and which is a sub-France for many of you; Reunion, where the notions of freedom, equality and fraternity are totally flouted by the arrogance of power, flouted by the corruption of elected officials from here and there, flouted by your lack of humanity, you deputies of the majority. There is no respect for the dignity of others and beings; There is no social justice. Zordi loptit helps big, fat, but no one helps big: this is, in short, your policy and that of your friends based in La Réunion. But today, the people of Réunion are standing, demonstrating a desire for social justice. Please, it would be nice to listen to me because I am talking about La Réunion, where there is an intense social crisis: it would be interesting and supportive of the Réunions to listen to me. The rights are being violated at home. The fundamental rights enshrined in the French Constitution do not apply to citizens. It is your responsibility to put an end to this, in the name of respect for human beings. Yes, rights are violated in La Réunion and, to begin with, the right to health. Reunion is the second territory where glyphosate is used, whereas it is recognized as a carcinogen. Fifty per cent of households drink water that is unfit for consumption, leading to extremely serious diseases. Poverty is also a health problem. It causes damage in the society of Réunion, with 343,000 people involved and an early entry into dependence: fifty to fifty-nine years in La Réunion equivalent to sixty to seventy-nine years here in Hexagon, that is a 20-year lag. With this comes a time bomb: the crisis of the papy boom, the ageing of the population. Thus, 115000 people are over sixty years of age today; In ten years, this number will double to 225,000 to 230,000 people. Few answers to this: already 600 places are missing in our EHPADs. There are 45 places for 1000 in Réunion, compared to 160 places for 1000 here. What a shame, my dear friends! What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! I see that I am talking to you about the sufferings of La Réunion and that many of you are not listening! But I want to continue my remarks, because I love my country, I love La Réunion, I love the people who live in La Réunion. The right to work is violated in our country: 180,000 people are registered in the Employment Department, or 45 per cent of the working population; 60% of young people are unemployed, while 88.2% have passed the baccalaureate. To try to remedy this problem, instead of providing solutions, you continue to destroy employment with your policy, with the removal of the LPA from ownership, with the elimination of assisted jobs. The companies themselves say that the minister, Mrs Girardin, having failed to speak, La Réunion is condemned to underdevelopment and mass unemployment. While work is normally a priority for every citizen to gain dignity in society, that is what is happening in my department. And what about the priority of employment for Réunions, which we refuse when there is an unjust and discriminatory metropolitan priority in our country, suffered by the young graduates of Réunion! The right to live well with the family is also a problem for us because of the attacks on purchasing power. Revenues in Réunion are much lower than in Hexagon, but prices are much higher: double penalty! Forty per cent of the poor, 118,000 children in poverty: this is unacceptable! This is unacceptable – we must repeat it! This is the decline in the housing allowance, it is the increase in the CSG for pensioners, it is the end of the increase in the social minimums and the indexation of the SMIC to the cost of living. Yet life is expensive, prices explode every month, the tax reduction of 30% is called into question. Faced with the cost of life, it is absolutely necessary to end the granting of sea. This tax has been diverted from its objective. Formerly called the "weight duty", this tax was created to protect local production and affected products that are not manufactured in Réunion; Today, it is also applied to local products. Seafaring revenues are primarily used to operate communities, while at the grass-roots level, seafaring should protect and generate employment. And, in my view, in the name of economic equality, freight has to be reviewed. It is up to the state to compensate for the loss of profits from the communities and it is up to the communities of La Réunion to discuss with the state, the French government. The right to housing, let's talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the Hexagon! According to the DEAL – Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing – and the INSEE, we would have to build between 8000 and 9000 housing units each year in Réunion: we produce just 4000 of them! This means overcrowding in housing, around 35% of the stock; 81,000 poorly housed persons; 500 homeless; 6000 dwellings with no bath or shower; 36,000 people don't have hot water. That's what's happening in La Réunion! And your finance law removes the APL from the property! With regard to the right to justice, when a Reunion man committed a fault, he went before the courts in the following days. Many go to court immediately and are heavily punished. But white-collar offenders, with the complicity of Paris, continue to live as if nothing were, rarely worried and often acquitted. The right to education raises the problem of poverty, which is one of the factors contributing to school failure. Overcrowding in housing is a problem for our children. It's a mess for young people who go to Hexagon: little or no accompaniment, to the point that many drop out of their schooling, their education. With regard to the right to free movement, there is little public transport policy; all-automobiles are expensive, much more expensive in Réunion than in Hexagone, while we are being forced into the whole-automobile policy, in particular by the abolition of the tram-train. Fuel is expensive, vehicles are very expensive and vehicle maintenance parts are 200 to 300 per cent more. You see the situation of Reunions and Reunions, while income is much lower! The law is violated in La Réunion. Moreover, due to low purchasing power, the right to culture, leisure and well-being does not exist in most families. Faced with the discovery of the policy that you have been leading since the beginning of the legislature and because of your financial laws for 2019, the people are reacting. The complicity of La Réunion's elected officials has boosted this feeling of injustice. Today, and after ten days of mobilization, the university and all schools are blocked, the training centres are blocked, the administration is paralyzed, the large areas are closed, 95% of the vehicles are stationary; Soon, 70-80% of households will be gas-free and 50% of companies are in great difficulty – never seen in the history of Réunion! They are women, entrepreneurs, men, civil servants, job seekers, couples, pensioners, young people: it is the people gathered, it is the people on the street! The current policy has created this situation. So they meet without a trade union organization, without a political organization. The people are free in Reunion, free in the street. They demonstrate that they are capable of taking charge of their future. They are not there for pleasure, they are not there to make pretty: the yellow vests carry the voice of the people of Réunion. In the face of this, your answer is repression, sending reinforcements, soldiers, curfews without distinction between breakers and honest people. It's absurd and unhealthy! I denounce this colonial behaviour of the French government. Those who govern us carry this in them and it's serious, very serious! It is for this reason that a decision to dismiss the President of the Republic must be taken by referendum as soon as possible. Ms. Girardin had to come to La Réunion to provide concrete answers, which restored fundamental rights. Yellow vests will make proposals. Listen azot otherwise ti hash will cut big wood. To finish nou lé pa plis nou lé pa moin respect anou. I ask you to vote on this motion to reject. Your gesture will mean the beginning of the end of your inhuman policy. This evening is your responsibility as MPs. [[Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon branded a yellow vest. – Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the same Chamber, Mr Jean Lassalle expressed the suffering of the people. Let me put forward the 974 flag of the resistance! Here's the symbol...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u7	The meeting is suspended!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u8	The meeting was resumed. In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u9	[[Smile]] Minister, in your defence of the PLFSS, you have chosen to target the parliamentary right. All in all, it's quite tedious! As for you, Mr rapporteur, you have pointed out a contrario the broad adherence of the Senate right to the main corpus of this PLFSS. When only one hair separates the political orientations of En March from those of the Republicans, the debate remains on the ridge. For the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, your social policy is equivalent to that of the poverty line, the income line around which you strive to concentrate an ever larger majority of French, not only in Réunion under very serious conditions, and in the overseas, but also in metropolitan France. Today, a majority of our people express their demand for a social policy that our country's history and wealth should be able to give it, and that you refuse to commit. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u10	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u11	The Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group have listened carefully to our colleague from La Réunion and are not insensitive to the reference he made to the situation faced by Réunions, as many other ultramarine populations who face daily difficulties, whether in terms of housing or access to employment. These are also difficulties that our fellow citizens face in metropolitan France. Nevertheless, this text deserves to be examined and we expect this new reading to continue to exercise our right of amendment, as we did at first reading, so that this text is fairer and more concerned about the people most in difficulty. That is why, although we regret the situation mentioned by Mr Ratenon, we will not vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u12	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u13	The Government and the majority wanted a PLFSS that supports both the investment and the transformation of our health care system while protecting our weakest citizens everywhere in France, in metropolitan France and overseas. As early as 2019, the French will benefit from the desocialisation of overtime, which is a 200 euro gain per year for an employee at the SMIC. The upgrading of the child-care supplement for children with disabilities will result in a monthly gain of EUR 140 for the families concerned. The remaining zero charge on glasses, hearing aids and dental prostheses, in addition to restoring sight, hearing and smile, will allow all French people to enjoy quality equipment without increasing the cost of their mutuals. The shift from support to complementary health care to complementary universal health care – CMU-C – contribution will give people who need it most the opportunity to benefit from a supplementary health care for 1 euro per day while at the same time helping to combat the massive non-use of rights and care. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] Basically this PLFSS is a social justice budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u14	The bigger it is, the more it goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u15	It re-aligns the work; It initiates the transformation of our health system, provides more protection to all, especially the most fragile. It was built in consultation with public and private actors and civil society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As usual, unsuspecting France offers us a lesson of demagogy, a pure and simple rejection rather than an argumented and constructive proposal. It does not offer any alternative solutions for our fellow citizens except, as often, words that do not improve the daily lives of the French. The La République group will therefore vote against this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u16	And we wonder why people are on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u17	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u18	The construction of the welfare state of the twenty-first century follows the path of unbridled and uncomplicated liberalism that accentuates inequalities and reduces the protection of the most vulnerable. The freezing of social benefits is the original sin of the pseudo-social policy of this quinquennium. Thus, as early as 2019, the cost of the state-agreed exemption from overtime contributions – i.e. €2 billion in full year – will be borne by social security without compensation from the state budget. We denounce the evolution of our social security towards an Anglo-Saxon model that reduces it to being a safety net for the most deprived. This orientation, which impoverishes families and pensioners on the pretext of a new welfare state, is not ours. In a recent report, the United Nations confirms that the already significant inequalities are worsening in the United Kingdom. In its alternative budget for 2019, the Socialist and Related Group proposes not to transform the CICE into a general reduction of contributions, in order to avoid the cases mentioned above. This would also allow the Government to retain a margin of 20 billion euros in compliance with the Maastrichtian criteria. It is incomprehensible that, in the context of shortening economic growth, the Government is reducing France's budget by such a margin of manoeuvre. That is why we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u19	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u20	The MODEM Group will of course vote against this motion to reject it beforehand. It is not a question of opposing each other, but the arguments that have just been put before us do not convince us. This new reading is precisely an opportunity to look at this text, taking into account the contributions of the Senate, while re-establishing the Assembly's drafting when it seems appropriate to us. The text which emerged from this House a few weeks ago was the subject of intense debates which allowed everyone to express their point of view. Let us beware that the same will apply to this new reading. This PLFSS is coherent and ambitious. It presents the accounts of the general scheme to balance for the first time in almost twenty years. This is fully in line with the Government's strategy for the restoration of public accounts and supported by the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It also implements concrete measures to support activity and major investments in the transformation of the health system. Finally, it establishes mechanisms to better protect our most vulnerable citizens. These advances are decisive, they are essential. That is why the members of the MODEM Group support this PLFSS and will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u21	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u22	[[Smile]] Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I would have been pleased to welcome the Minister for Solidarity and Health if she had given us the honour of being on the bench of the Government, but perhaps she did not want to hear what I am going to say now about the PLFSS. That being said, Mr. President, I am making a commitment in front of you not to brandish yellow vests and not to finish my speech by singing! Why, in hearing your presentation of this budget for 2019, did I feel, minister, to hear, as in echo, the voice of André Laignel...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u23	[[Smile]] No insults!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u24	... when, with the same assurance as you, he exclaimed in this House in 1981: "You are legally wrong because you are a political minority. » Finally, indeed, at the moment when your text comes to new reading, what did you hear and hold back from what all the oppositions on these benches have told you? What did you hear and hear from what the Senate majority said to you and proposed? What have you heard and held back from the anger that is expressed all over health care professionals, both in the city and in institutions? I can acknowledge with you, Minister, that we have probably been very wrong about health for 25 years. But, if perseverance in error is indeed evil, why lock oneself in a pattern of thought that it is not difficult to see that it will not bring to our health care system the solutions of the future that it needs? It must be acknowledged that dialogue does not seem to be the first virtue of this government. Next spring, we will be almost half the mandate of the President of the Republic. What assessment will you be able to present on health, apart from reports, commissions, study groups and working groups? Where are the envy, ambition and spirit of a real reform of our health system? What is your vision for health, beyond repainting and repainting? I have to tell you again that your PLFSS for 2019 is only the pale copy of all those who preceded it. You haven't changed any paradigm or reading grid. Your certainty of being right alone and against everyone is so disproportionate that you are considering not submitting your entire project "my health 2022" to parliamentary debate. Last Wednesday, the very morning of the review of the PLFSS in the Committee on Social Affairs, I was afraid to hear from Mrs Courrèges, Director-General of Care Services, that a significant part of the plan "my health 2022" would be adopted by ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u25	She didn't say "important."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u26	Is there an emergency? But then, where was the urgency when the President of the Republic delayed the announcement of your health plan three times? Where was the urgency when, last year, in this same forum, I was already alerting you to the need not to repair or repair our health system, but to rebuild it on a solid and sustainable basis? You see, Minister, you have this paradoxical situation, which consists in drawing up every day the observation of the shortcomings and drifts of our health system and, yet, through this PLFSS as the previous one – as no doubt next year and years after – you will propose to continue as before. Of course, you will object that "my health 2022" will respond to all situations. I wonder, however, about the temporality of your measures: 2022, it is very far when, at Ferté-Bernard, in the Sarthe, one no longer has access to a treating doctor and retired doctors are forced to get back to work; 2022, it is very far away when you are a nurse in a hospital service, you are under pressure every day a little more and you are not offered any career prospects, the IPAs – nurses of advanced practice – being confined to very rare disciplines. "At the same time," to take up an expression that is dear to you, 2022 is far too close to us when one wants to affirm for the health of each and every Frenchman a true vision for the future, a true ambition for the future. Locking up health in a small electoral calendar is definitely not up to the stakes! If you had proposed to us, with a real long-term vision, reforms that engage all the health actors for 2030, 2040 or 2050, if you had put forward a project and an ambition that met the legitimate expectations of our compatriots, we could have said that the account was there. But "my health 2022" will only be the business of a warrant, and come what can! And don't think that the territorial health professional communities – the CPTS – whose deployment you are going to entrust to the regional health agencies – ARS – will be a quick and effective response: first of all, because it is a mistake not to involve local elected officials who have raised medical demography issues for the last ten years; Then because, since Paris, believe that the RHAs will be better able to define the boundaries and conditions of governance and animation of these networks than the health professionals themselves are part of a reading by too jacobine of the subject, which carries within it the germs of failure. I already hear your answer, minister: you will no doubt shout at demagogy, since it is now your creed – Mr Mesnier recited it for you just now – as if the world were now divided in two, with, on the one hand, your government, exclusive holder of an absolute truth, and, on the other, the cohort of your opponents necessarily demagogues, necessarily in excess, necessarily unable to carry on an alternative project, necessarily incapable of thinking. Health needs a real project, a real political incarnation, it needs decisions and courage. The health of the French requires actions, strong acts. But you answer this only by contempt, the contempt that seems to be the most shared thing by this government: contempt for Parliament and parliamentarians, who, at random from the statements of a senior official, discover your wish to resort to the ordinances for the plan "my health 2022"; The Minister of Health received the very day before Ms. Courrèges' announcement, and she did not inform them of it. However, this PLFSS offered you the opportunity to reshape our social model to make it more horizontal, closer to the territories, more participatory – it seemed to me that the yellow vest movement expresses this imperative with even more vigour. I could have stuck to these comments, which alone summarize what the world of health thinks, but I will still take a few moments to talk to you concretely about this PLFSS for 2019 which is finally only the one of the previous year, at worst. It is worse, indeed, for the hospital, which has an urgent need to regain investment capacities, to provide room for manoeuvre to support professionals who can no longer do so, to relieve divisions buried under the directives issued by the Ministry of Health and its substitutes, which the RHAs have become. It is worse for the hospital, whose debt continues to explode but which, fortunately, does not fall within the criteria of the 3% of Maastricht. It is worse for prevention, which remains the standard word of your mandate, but for which nothing is done, or so little. Raising the price of tobacco may be a good thing, but it cannot alone be a policy of prevention that is still ungoverned and unevaluated. It is worse for city medicine, which you will reduce the share of remuneration to the activity to instill mixed financing made up of an increasingly large lump sum share. What will remain of the liberal medicine, which is already under the supervision of the health insurance and will perhaps tomorrow be under that of the GHT, the hospital groups of territory? It is worse for patients, who, after arriving in the emergency room, can be redirected to city medicine without having been treated or treated and without having the certainty of being treated within a reasonable time. It is worse for the French, who no longer know what saint to dedicate to, who are worried for their parents, their children and for themselves. Minister, trust is now broken. The cut-off of all sectors of health, including hospitals, the liberal sector and the medical and social sectors, has lasted too long. It's time to radically change your model, your vision. It is time to trust public and private hospitals, the excellence of our practitioners, the dedication of our professionals. There is an urgent need to free the initiatives of the professionals who are on the ground, to trust the elected representatives of the territories, to accompany the ideas that are unfolding here and there, hundreds of kilometres away from the ARS, which nevertheless continue to make and undo the projects. It is time to put an end to this doctrine where everything is designed by and for the public hospital. This PLFSS, which is just a copy of the report Charges et produits de la caisse nationale d'assurance maladie, leads us to question ourselves: who, in France today, actually governs health? All recommendations and recommendations of the CNAM are contained in one form or another. It is therefore time, more than time, for health to become a political subject, inspired by a real ambition, that one be able to imagine the health of tomorrow, able to decide and put an end to the administrative carcan. It is time for the Franc to become a society of trust, to do less but better, to become a strategist, to regulate and to protect! Let the State stop ensnaring individuals in a narrow setting from which it is no longer possible to leave! May the state cease to reproduce everywhere the technocratic caesarism that makes the administration all-powerful! With no confidence in the pharmaceutical industry, you place a major risk on France's health independence and its regular supply of essential molecules. You keep patients away from therapeutic innovations a little further. How can you accept, as well as the Minister of Health, that researchers working in prestigious French institutions admit to reorienting patients to other countries, such as Switzerland, so that they can access innovative treatment more quickly than in France? With no confidence in patients, health democracy remains a sweet dream. By defiance of local initiatives, you lock the projects authorized by Article 51 in illegible specifications of several dozen pages. It is time, Minister, to restore confidence. The world of health demands it. Can you hear him? Do you hear him, when he shouts his suffering in the pages of the books, in the reports you order, on the television sets or on the radio? Do you hear him when he screams his pain and manifests it in the streets? Do you hear us as parliamentarians when we try to move the debate forward constructively and you reject everything as a whole, when, for example, the committee votes unanimously on the amendments, with the consent of the rapporteur-general, but you sweep them away with a hand? Do I have to remind you, as one of my colleagues in the Senate has done, that the Government is proposing legislation, but that it is Parliament that has jurisdiction and that this is both the letter and the spirit of our Constitution? To restore the bond of trust, hand over your reading strictly budget and accounting! Stop demanding from the world of health, pensioners, families, students, that they tighten their belts, because, obviously, she has no more guts! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all the reasons set out in this motion for reference, which of course applies to the original version of the text which will not fail to reappear at the discretion of the amendments to delete the contributions of the Senate, the Republicans Group would like this PLFSS to be re-examined in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u27	In explanation of vote on the motion for referral to committee, the floor is Mr Pierre Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u28	Our colleague Thomas Mesnier referred earlier to a budget for social justice, a statement which I would like to challenge. I also share in part the views of Jean-Carles Grelier, in particular on the "austerity" character of this PLFSS for the hospital, but also for pensioners. I do not see where social justice is in the tax proposals that are made to us. In addition, the "My Health 2022" plan raises several questions. After the recent announcements, I ask the Government to explain the reality of its intentions: how will we legislate on these important measures aimed at reshaping our health system? We have not had the opportunity to discuss this in the context of the initial examination of this text, and it seems to us that some of the decisions should be made, which we find quite unacceptable. Finally, all this shows the importance of strengthening health democracy. For the rest, the Senate has not been able to correct this bill on the financing of social security as it would have been necessary. It has done so all the less because 57 per cent of the articles have been voted in conformity and so we are already partly corsisted by the decisions taken by the upper chamber. Of course, an amendment tabled by our colleagues in the Communist, Republican, Citizen and Ecologist Group has been adopted to obtain a government report on fraud against employers' contributions, but it is very meagre. In our view, putting this social security budget back on track would require a review in committee. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote on this motion for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u30	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u31	Mr Grelier has been eloquent in this motion for referral to committee tabled by the Republican Group, but I have noted a contradiction: his counter-argument is aimed at the plan "my health 2022" while we are at the heart of a budgetary debate, while we are discussing the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019. I wonder if this rostrum was not used primarily to repeat the argument of a bill on health that the Republicans group defended a few weeks ago as part of its parliamentary niche. The PLFSS was re-examined in committee in a rather serene climate. Only 107 amendments were discussed. The quality of the debates that we have had only demonstrates the need to come now to the study of the text in open session and to discuss this night and, perhaps, tomorrow, the 252 amendments that have been tabled. The La République en marche group will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u32	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u33	It was true that the Senate had adopted a large part of the Government's text, as the rapporteur-general had recalled, but it had also returned to important articles on the major financial balances. Senators also added provisions that we, members of the Republican Group, had defended at first reading. It is a shame, minister, that you would caricature the Senate right, and the parliamentary right in general, as you did before. The opposition is in its role when it makes alternative proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u35	This was explained by Jean-Carles Grelier. If we defend the text of the Senate, it is because it has gone back to choices that are harmful to the purchasing power of the French, as we proposed to do with our amendments at first reading. The Group of the European People's Party did not vote earlier on the motion for a preliminary rejection, but, by the voice of Jean-Carles Grelier, proposes that the text be referred back to committee, because we still have the hope that you will be heard correctly. It is not by taxing more and more that we need to find more revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u36	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u37	You're the one who's taxing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u38	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] What needs to be done is to undertake the structural reforms described earlier in the area of health. But your PLFSS is a copy-paste of last year's. The Republican Group will therefore vote on this motion for referral back to committee, which has been perfectly well defended by our colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u39	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u40	This motion for referral to committee is of interest to the Libertés et territoires Group. It is true that a number of articles have been voted in accordance with the Senate, but the material situation of hospitals, such as the situation of their staff, deserves a review of this budget. Indeed, even if the health insurance budget increases by 2.5% compared to 2018, at the same time, the natural increase in health expenditure, linked in particular to the ageing of the population, will be 4.5%. Despite this, an effort of €800 million is still required from health institutions. It's incomprehensible! Some colleagues have mentioned the plan "my health 2022", but if there is a budget vehicle that should reflect this desire to improve the situation of the public hospital, it was the PLFSS for 2019. In March, hospital rates will be revised: they cannot continue to fall indefinitely. Higher rates are a necessary condition for the proper functioning of the establishments. Finally, the inter-hospital transport reform, which has been implemented without consultation, also deserves to be reviewed. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u41	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u42	As you can imagine, the MODEM Group will oppose this motion for referral to committee. In fact, we do not understand very well the approach of our colleagues in the Republicans Group, who seemed very satisfied with the Senate version of the PLFSS. This new reading is intended to summarize the proposals and draftings of the two Assemblies. While some of our honourable senators' proposals are interesting, others are clearly not part of the path we want to follow in health and social policy. We are given an opportunity to discuss it and to express our convergences and differences. We did a thorough and intensive work at first reading. It is now a matter of continuing to do so by re-establishing a number of measures that we believe are essential, while continuing to enrich the text. We have no doubt that it will come out further strengthened from this review in a new reading. This motion for referral to committee does not seem appropriate. That is why we will vote against it, in order to debate this bill in a spirit that we hope will be calm and constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u44	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u45	The Socialist and Related Group will abstain on this motion. We believe that referral to committee is unnecessary for several reasons, but above all because our amendments are systematically rejected. We prefer to hear in the House the majority's arguments on 100% health and the rest on zero. We also want to hear his arguments on purchasing power and on this backward social justice which, with the abolition of unemployment contributions, benefits the highest wages. We will be curious to hear your arguments on the freezing of social benefits, and I think they will also interest the French. Finally, we want to hear from you about the question of medical desertification, for which you do not propose anything, and about social anger, to which you do not give any concrete answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u46	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u47	The IDU, Action and Independents group has some difficulty in understanding the meaning of the measures taken by the Government in this PLFSS. With regard to solidarity, first of all, the principle of distribution was known, where the assets paid for pensioners. Today, however, it is pensioners who pay the abolition of unemployment contributions. We're wondering where the government is going! Secondly, with regard to the financing of social protection, the Government tells us that it wants to give priority to work, but it no longer compensates for the measures of exemption contained in the PLFSS: this means that these measures of exemption are paid by contributions on labour, since the State no longer takes responsibility for this solidarity. Thirdly, what solidarity exists between the territories? What measures does the Government intend to take to address the deplorable health situation in several territories? Some are rising in terms of life expectancy, mortality rates, morbidity rates. However, this PLFSS does not respond to these territorial differences and to the health degradation that can be seen here or there. And what about medical deserts, for which the Government does nothing? I must also say that some of the measures contained in this PLFSS satisfy us, but they are too disparate and therefore lack a clear political sense. I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the CICE, which we have been demanding for years; I am also thinking of the exemption from social security contributions, which we were also asking for; Finally, we believe that a number of experiments are interesting. The IUD, Action and Independent Group will therefore abstain on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u48	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u49	Is it possible you didn't hear that anger? Is it possible that you thought you could go over it? Is it possible that you decide to impose at any cost on the country choices that do not have a popular majority? Is it possible that you still believe in the illusion of your hat tricks? Is it possible that you would reserve your sophistry to us on purchasing power? The rose pot is now in public place. And all this escapes you, not without tragic events. You seek, which is not simple, to disqualify the movement that is developing, but it is the testimony of a deep popular anger. More than just a tax break, it is an expression of the rejection of fiscal and social injustice. For the past ten days, initiatives have been increasing in my constituency: women and men in yellow vests on roundabouts, hundreds of people in a union meeting against the cost of living and for the increase of wages, petrochemical workers on strike, and a large demonstration is being prepared for December 1. Everywhere in the country there's a major social anger. This anger, of which I have been a spokesman for months in this House and which motivates many of the proposals we have made on other political issues, is not a fashion effect. This anger is not a spoiled child's whim. This anger points to social regression and social suffering. And it's your political choices that ended up being the triggers, it's your budgets of injustice, scam, public impotence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u51	[[Boris Vallaud applauds]] These choices endanger the Republic, because they depart from its promise. The new momentum for our country is only for a few. If this may sometimes appear in confusion, what is denounced are class choices in favour of the dominant forces, the first of the ropes, the most fortunate, the great owners. You are in the process of encountering, in your "new world" operation, something that deeply unites our people and that always ends up resurrected in history: I want to talk about this passion for equality, this irreducible refusal of injustice. This passion may seem very "ancient world" but it must be remembered that it felled down the Old Regime. While some apply themselves to orienting it towards dark stalemates at the heart of the melee, this passion is fundamentally revolutionary, progressive, emancipatory. It calls for profound system changes, which you do not put on the agenda. You're making the revolution in the opposite direction. Your responsibility is to hear all this, because v2ous have not been elected with full powers. And you have an opportunity today, with the re-reading of this bill to finance social security. This budget is indeed the den of proven "anti-buying power" measures. The quasi-freeze of pensions, which you have decided to deindex from the increase in the cost of living, is the key measure. You have to give up this unfair measure, which is in addition to the increase in the CSG, to compensate for the disintegration of social contributions for ideological reasons. You need to go back completely to this increase in the CSG, and your marginal corrections are just the admission of the overall inequity of this decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u53	It's more serious than making a mistake: sticking around. Disindexation also applies to personalized housing subsidies, while housing prices are blazing. It also affects family allowances and thus reduces the income of many families. In total, you save €3.2 billion in budget on rights, on purchasing power, on the power to live. To give an order of ideas, it is the equivalent of what the State budget represents every year, the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth. Your "100% health" reform, conceived as a separate capsule, may have a negative effect on other essential benefits. You have the necessary solidarity measures financed by mutual contributions, but which will lead to mechanical increases. The allowance for adults with disabilities is the subject of a trompe l'oeil measure, which will leave the situation of its beneficiaries as it is. Last year, you increased the hospital fee. You rely on overtime to guarantee purchasing power, instead of driving another wage policy. This logic is clear: you will have to work more to earn your living properly, provided you can work overtime. And, in the meantime, the second flagship measure of your budget is the doubling of the CICE, which is 22 billion extra gifts to businesses. If you have so much money to spend, make it useful! Guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners as I suggest in my bill, increase the share of social security in the reimbursements of care, organize the care and accommodation of elderly people in loss of autonomy. Don't decide to blindly put that money back into the stock market and high-income channels. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] The second issue I would like to raise is the untenable situation in which you plan to maintain the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u54	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u55	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While it is already in general burn-out, you still impose 910 million savings on it for 2019. This is not serious. And the health plan you're announcing will not be on this path. I would also like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to tell you that we cannot accept that this plan is partly by order and that we are once again short-circuiting Parliament. Your Government is not in a position to afford this facility and, let us say, this abuse. You drain the resources of social security, and the arrangements you make, with the end of the compulsory compensation of the exemptions, which proliferate like wild boars in the Armenian forest, consist of making the social security budget an annex to the state budget, an adjustment variable, an easily mobilizable reserve. However, the social security budget must be sanctified in order to defend social rights throughout life. We oppose this serious drift, liberal and austere, and the denaturation of social security. Equal pay for women and men, wage increases, are the first levers on which to act to achieve positive effects on social accounts. They will mechanically give the additional margins that are now lacking. Right now, in my constituency, I'm organizing the "Purchasing Power Tour", a series of citizen meetings around fiscal orientations. During these meetings there was a call, "We want to live 100%". He says: "We want social progress, we want ecological transition, we want an economy that serves people. We don't need to be taught a lesson or punished. We need strong collective choices: better production, better sharing and better use of the wealth created by labour. We are prepared to contribute, through social contributions or taxes, to our fair measure. We want a budget that strengthens purchasing power, or rather the power to live, that attacks poverty, for the purposes of difficult months and inequalities. There's an emergency. It is possible to do otherwise. We call for State and social security budgets marked by social justice and public audacity. » [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] You'd be inspired to hear that call. Together, let us make a profound change in these choices. Let's change the budget. We are here by the will of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u56	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u57	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u58	Today opens the new reading in sitting of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. We let you know at first reading, this PLFSS was particularly expected by health professionals, health and medical-social institutions and their staff, health associations and our fellow citizens. It contains provisions on the original text that we approve, as well as some of the Senate's additions. As we all know, this 2019 PLFSS is organized in four main parts: to continue the path of social account recovery, to support economic activity and to strengthen the competitiveness of companies, to protect the most vulnerable, to invest in the transformation of our health system. If we can agree on a return to the balance of social accounts, we find that it is at the cost of considerable efforts imposed on health actors because of drastic measures, which are often detrimental to the quality of care and which do not meet the objective of greater social justice. Once again, it is the middle classes and pensioners who will pay for it and more broadly the families. Family policy is not intended to alleviate the difficulties. It must support families by introducing equity measures. Under no circumstances should it become the adjustment variable, making it possible to compensate for the increase in expenditure on health insurance or on old-age insurance. As I said earlier, it is unacceptable that the disengagement on family policy will result in a transfer of the income from the wage tax to the sickness and old age branches as early as 2019. We therefore regret that, as other European countries develop their public policies in favour of the family, we are abandoning this trend as our fertility rate moves away from the threshold of population renewal. On the other hand, we remain opposed to the planned abolition, by 2021, of the TODE scheme, which is widely used for the employment of seasonal workers in the agricultural sector. The degressivity of 1.15 SMIC, which will apply in 2019, will cause a loss of 39 million euros for the whole of France – 6.3 million in Occitanie, 3.8 million in the Great East and 1.7 million in the Centre-Val de Loire. We regret that the Senate's proposals to improve the degressivity of the system and to ensure its sustainability over time have not been taken into account. The PLFSS is making some progress that was expected to protect the most vulnerable. This text has advantages, in particular the extension of maternity leave for self-employed women and women farmers – even though the relaxation measure, voted in the Senate, has not been adopted by the Assembly's Social Affairs Committee – or the simplification and strengthening of access to care for the most modest, through the merger of support for the payment of supplementary health care with complementary universal health insurance. We remain in favour of 100% health, as we have already informed you, as far as optics, audio-prosthetics and dentistry are concerned, but we would like to express our opposition, as we have already informed you, to the method of financing adopted. This measure should have been part of a national solidarity framework and 100 per cent financed by social security. That's not what you chose. You are raising part of the funding on health supplements, which will lead to an average increase in contributions estimated at 7% over a minimum of three years, thereby altering once again the purchasing power of the French and, more particularly, of pensioners whom you have not spared since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u60	With regard to the remainder of the zero charge, we also regret that, a priori, a specific assessment of the implementation of the offer of enhanced care for optics, dental prostheses and hearing aids was refused, which was proposed and voted by the Senate. Similarly, we are concerned about the evolution of the widespread social contribution. The 1.7-point increase in retirement pensions above EUR 1200 resulted in a significant decrease in pensions for more than 60 per cent of pensioners. Admittedly, some of them benefit from favourable measures, such as the exemption from the housing tax and the upgrading of the ASPA, which covers 300,000 people. However, the majority of them, 7.5 million, are seeing a decline in their purchasing power, which will further increase in view of the low pension revalorisation in 2019 and 2020, offset by inflation despite the Senate's proposal to reverse this indexation. Having already stressed that we welcome the 2.5% increase in the ONDAM rate, the highest in five years, we reiterate our concern at the worrying financial situation of public hospitals, whose debt is close to €30 billion, with a record operating deficit of almost 1.4 billion. However, they are still asked to save more than 800,000 euros, which undermines any investment capacity to make them more efficient and improve the working conditions of hospital staff. We support the development of lump-sum funding for the management of certain chronic diseases, but we regret that this package should only apply in hospitals, excluding city medicine, even though 90% of patients with diabetes are treated at home. In order to combat medical desertification, we are again representing the amendment of our President Philippe Vigier, which aims to exempt doctors who are working in areas where there is tension and no income ceiling from pension contributions, contrary to what the Senate has proposed. Our concern remains that rural and mountain areas, which are already largely affected by medical desertification, are being closed down by pharmacies linked to the reduction of deliveries by wholesalers of medicines, who, without a change in their remuneration, may no longer be able to provide the service. By rejecting in committee the additional article adopted in the Senate, the majority took the risk of adding pharmaceutical desertification to medical desertification. This PLFSS also does not respond to the problem of taking care of the transport of carers of Corsican patients when, in the absence of CHU in particular, a specialty does not exist on the island. We remain firmly opposed, as has been expressed by the Senate, to the reorientation package on an experimental basis, since the organization of a true management by city medicine is far from being effective, not to mention the possible problems of medical responsibility in case of ill-appreciated symptoms. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The group I represent, Libertés et Territoires, believes that the PLFSS, despite these few advances, is not up to our expectations. It is far from responding effectively to the improvement of our health care system. Our group will remain attentive to the development of this text in the discussions of our amendments. As it stands, it still does not receive our consent. We would have liked it to be fairer and more balanced in the field of social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u61	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u62	The budget is above all the tool for the implementation of a political project which, for several months in 2017, we defended before the French and for which they democratically chose – and some people do not mind – to bring Emmanuel Macron to the Presidency of the Republic and a large majority in this Chamber: our political project, of emancipation through school and work, of dignity and social justice, to the implementation of which the Government and the majority have been working since the first day. The first effects are realized in the daily life of the French: increase of the net wage last month for all the employees of the country, increase of the minimum old age, of the supplement mode of care for single-parent families, and we will, we must continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u63	Why are they going down the street if everything's okay?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u64	So it's the PLFSS season 2, episode 2, that is coming to our examination today. Previously, we had voted for a text that marked major advances. In order for work to pay better, we wanted to go further and faster with regard to the desocialisation of overtime as early as 2019, which in practice amounts to 200 euros more per year for an employee at the SMIC. To support our businesses, we are changing the CIC and CIT to reduce long-term burdens. For the agricultural world, in addition to a reduction in burdens as early as January, we wanted to compensate for the abolition of the TODE system for casual workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u65	You'll explain it to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u66	A few weeks after the announcement of the poverty plan and the health plan by the President of the Republic, this budget makes it possible to include several concrete measures in the daily life of the French. The merger of the complementary CMU and support for complementary health care for a contributing CMU, i.e. a mutual benefit of 1 euro per day, will help to cover more of our most modest citizens by avoiding the use of rights and care. New resources are allocated to the transformation of our health care system with an additional €400 million, the strongest health insurance expenditure target in six years. It will improve the structure of community-based care, including the creation of the new medical assistant trade and the rapid funding of 4000 posts. It will structure and modernize community hospitals, those closest to you in the territory, or create care packages for chronic pathologies, investment in digital health care. All these measures will enter the daily life of the French in the weeks and months to come. This is the case for the remaining zero charge to equip themselves with glasses, dental prostheses and hearing aids, the gradual implementation of which will save money as early as 2019 and will facilitate access to these essential aids on a daily basis. We are transforming our health care system and laying the first stones of the 21st century welfare state. It is in this sense that this budget also marks major advances in the management of autism, the acceleration of investments for EHPADs. We wanted to create a new right by introducing paternity leave for fathers of children in need of intensive care at birth, which is particularly the case when they are premature. We have also followed the work of our colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain to improve the conditions of maternity leave for self-employed farmers. This budget truly marks major social advances and, as we hear and listen to our angry fellow citizens, I am sure they will have noted that our opposition to the Republicans in the Senate proposes another model, a model where the retirement age is pushed back to sixty-three years, where wage contributions are increased and, as a result, wages are reduced, and where the prices of mutuals are increased by the creation of a super tax of more than EUR 1 billion. That's how the PLFSS comes back from the Senate. We want something else. The French want something else,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u67	Why are they on the street?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... they want more solidarity, more responsibility, more courage and more social justice. They expressed it in the polls in 2017, they express it on a daily basis in our permanences, on the ground, even yesterday in the markets. We listen to them and put in place not new taxes, but more support, more protection, more purchasing power and more rights. We bring innovative solutions, keep a balanced and forward-looking budget, move towards more freedoms and equality, put forward work and emancipation, without ever, ever, ever, leave no one on the edge of the road, because this is our project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u69	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u70	The Joint Joint Committee, meeting on 20 November, took note of its disagreement on a major point, that of Article 44 of the Government's text, which provides for the undervaluation of social benefits in 2019 and 2020. The Senate had amended the article to restore the inflation indexation mechanism. At first reading, I myself had criticized the question of this principle, the aim of which is to ensure that the benefits paid by compulsory social security schemes are revalued so that pensioners can retain their purchasing power over the years. The Senate had also intended to favour the reduction of the minimum legal age for retirement rather than the imposition of an undervaluation of pensions, as decided by the Government. The Senate adopted fifty-one compliant articles, amended twenty-nine, deleted seven and added twenty-two. He managed to correct the proposed text more successfully than the opposition deputies in the National Assembly, whose amendments were systematically rejected. Unfortunately, most of the improvements introduced by the Senate are about to be eliminated by the Members of the Republic on the move, as we have already seen in committee. Among other things, the Senate has made improvements to exemptions for the home help and personal services sector for the maintenance of fragile or disabled persons at home. The same applies to the retired physician, who is encouraged to engage in alternative activity in an under-dense area. The arrangements for extending the payment scheme to the quality of health facilities have also been improved. Under the "remains at zero charge" scheme, the Senate introduced a cap on the amount of penalties for non-compliance by manufacturers or distributors with the obligations imposed by the legislation, and removed the penalty based on non-compliance with the assessment scheme. The Senate has changed the text in favour of casual workers seeking employment or the specificities of overseas workers. It has abolished government measures to under-recovery social benefits. If the provisions adopted by the Senate were followed, all benefits would be re-indexed, as early as 2019, to the non-tobacco price index provided for in the finance bill of the year, in order to protect the purchasing power of the persons concerned for the coming year. The Senate also drew our attention to the need to eliminate the financial trajectory of social security providing for VAT cuts of 3.5 billion euros in 2021 and 5 billion euros from 2022. They are likely to result in the continuation of a debt of some EUR 14.5 billion from the sickness and old-age solidarity sectors by the end of 2022, which contradicts the objective of amortising social debt. Indeed, the debt of social security is far from being eliminated, since more than 120 billion debts remain by 2024. The announcement of a €700 million surplus in 2019 should not hide the reality of a large structural component of the social security deficit, independent of the effects of economic conditions on revenues. Everything will depend on this future economic situation. Your purely accounting objective, Minister for Solidarity and Health, leads you to focus on raising revenues rather than reducing well-targeted spending. The improvement of the accounts of recent years has therefore been achieved at the price of an unprecedented tax baton, suffered by households and businesses for more than 50 billion euros in taxes and contributions combined. You place on the insured, the beneficiaries, the contributors and the health industries, and obviously on pensioners, most of the effort to adjust the accounts. At no time did you want to answer my question about the element of additional injustice that affects pensioners in the private sector receiving a supplementary pension: they pay twice a compulsory levy, for the same purpose, the financing of health insurance. While they are subject to the CRDS and to the solidarity contribution for autonomy, they are subject to a rate of 9.3% of their income for their entitlement to sickness insurance in respect of benefits in kind, which is 1% higher than that to which the assets are subject, to which the full rate of 8.3% applies. The figures presented to us from a favourable perspective are to be put into perspective. With regard to the disease branch, on which deficits are concentrated, and given the hospital deficit – more than EUR 1 billion for the year, with debts of 27 billion – how will you finance the health plan? Measures of savings of 3.8 billion are particularly obscure. Indeed, the debate has yet to explain what you have not dared to present at a press conference, Minister. In reading this document, one can understand the concern of professionals: the drug is being used for more than 1 billion, at the risk of asphyxiating the innovation capabilities of the pharmaceutical industry, the performance of health facilities for nearly 1 billion, while without structural reform hospitals are exsanguated, as well as medical devices in the city for 150 million, which goes completely down the road from the ambulatory turn. The old age branch is slightly in excess in 2018, thanks to successive pension reforms, notably the structural reform carried out by Éric Woerth in 2010, which increased the statutory retirement age to sixty-two years. However, the Court of Auditors warns against the risk of a relapse of the old-age branch's accounts within ten years: if growth at 1.3% and an unemployment rate at 7% were to occur, the deficit would resume as early as 2025. Finally, the FSV remained in deficit last year for more than 2 billion euros, even though its financing structure is fragile: its resources are indeed very sensitive to the economic situation, since almost entirely based on capital income. In addition, by sub-indexing the pension recovery this year, you will keep the old age branch artificially in surplus by saving 8 billion over the period 2019-2020. I will not insist on the family branch slightly surplus in 2018, because this surplus was achieved by significant savings, made on the backs of the average families, throughout the previous quinquennium, that of Mr Hollande, in particular by the conditional investment of resources of almost all benefits. French family policy, as it emerged from the post-war period, and which was the subject of a social consensus, is based on a horizontal redistribution, with families without children supporting families with children. It is the counterpart of solidarity between generations. This financing bill therefore shows that, in 2019, social security revenues will be insured at 52 % by contributions and 45 % by tax revenues, in particular the CSG. Alain Milon, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, observed at first reading before the Senate in a penetrating way: "The system of insurance, whose principle is to contribute according to its means and to receive according to its needs, is totally challenged in order to be replaced by a universal system, in which the revenues of social security will be insured by tax measures. This sentence did not please you, minister. Thus, you distort the social model conceived by the founding fathers of social security. You claim, according to your language, to repair society. Now it is the very essence of social security that you are destroying. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of La République en marche, you say you understand, or even share, like Thomas Mesnier at the moment, the anger of pensioners: then, remove the disindexation of pensions, stop the batoning of CSG increases, renounce your amendments to restore the text, leave the text of the Senate as it stands and listen carefully to requests from the depths of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u71	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u72	We are starting a new reading of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill, the content of which has been substantially amended by the Senate. While some additions seem relevant to us, we disagree with the general philosophy of the upper house version of the text. In this way, our group will focus on supporting the text presented by the Government and re-establishing the articles adopted at first reading in our Assembly. Indeed, a month ago, after long hours of debate, we reached a balanced and coherent text, in line with the trajectory that has been ours since the beginning of the legislature, which is to control expenditure, in order to maintain a lasting balance of public accounts, while ensuring the continuity of the social transformation of the country. This budget marks the return to balance of the accounts of the general social security system for the first time in 18 years: it is not pointless to recall this once again. This is a real satisfaction for the MODEM Group, which has always attached the utmost importance to serious budgetary matters. It is now up to us to consolidate these good results through ambitious structural reforms, which will ultimately strengthen our health and social protection system. That is the whole point of this text. With respect to the amendments made by senators, we object to raising the statutory minimum retirement age from sixty-two to sixty-three years. This question was decided by the President of the Republic from the beginning of the quinquennium: he undertook to reform in depth our pension system, to make it more readable and fairer. In this context, the MODEM Group will be defending strong proposals, so that our citizens can regain confidence in our pension system, but there is no question of reaching the minimum retirement age. Moreover, the Senate has reintroduced the indexation of pensions and other social benefits on inflation, by financing it with an increase of 1 billion euros in the additional solidarity tax paid by mutuals for 2019. Such a provision would be tantamount to taking back from one hand what is given from the other, since it would immediately weigh on the insured, through the impact of this increase on their contributions. However, we reiterate our solemn appeal to the Government to protect pensioners, especially the most modest ones. Clause 8, which has concentrated and will focus much of our discussions, has also been reshaped by honourable senators. The latter went back to the compromise text on TODE, proposed by the Government and by the majority at first reading in this House. We are extremely attentive to the demands of the agricultural professions. The compensation mechanism adopted seemed to us to be an acceptable and viable compromise. That said, as we mentioned earlier, it is essential to continue the work on the issue of seasonal jobs that support our agriculture. National representation will necessarily have to be associated with it. Several amendments adopted in the Senate, however, go in the right direction and are true reasons for satisfaction. First of all, I am thinking of the deletion of Article 7a, which provided for the payment of benefits and gifts to employees by works councils to be subject to social contributions from a certain threshold, starting next January. If our group is in favour of securing this mechanism, it does not support the introduction of such a ceiling. Indeed, this measure would have resulted in a decrease of up to several hundred euros for employees with children and working in companies providing targeted support for holidays, sports and culture. Such a topic requires in-depth work and consultation between the social partners, businesses, the Government and national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u74	We also welcome the measure to extend the premium tax to flavoured wines and ciders. The prevention of alcohol addiction for younger people goes first through this. During this new reading, our group will make proposals aimed at strengthening the financing of prevention, improving the support of hospitals in their quality approach and optimising the legal framework for authorisations to place medicines on the market. In addition, we will address the issue of intermediate associations in the CICE transformation mechanism. Indeed, there are many concerns about the financial impact of removing the specific exemption from which they were granted. We want to ensure that these structures of integration through economic activity will not lose in this new system of exemption. Finally, Minister, Minister, our group is, as you know, viscerally committed to a strong and ambitious family policy. It is the key to the sustainability of our society. However, the latest statistical data on the number of births are worrying, and the trend does not seem to improve. Since 2013, the number of children per woman has become less than two, which is insufficient to allow generational renewal. There are many challenges ahead: we will have to deal with the ageing of the population and the replacement of retirements. Family policy is a major issue: it will allow the French society of tomorrow to remain dynamic, at the forefront of the nations involved in the evolution of the world. The few measures proposed in this PLFSS satisfy us, whether it concerns the alignment of maternity leave for self-employed women and women farmers, the specific boost on the free choice of mode of care supplement or the new method of allocating and calculating personal assistance for housing: these are targeted and necessary provisions. Nevertheless, after the commitments made last year, we regret that this second five-year budget does not go further on this issue; Similarly, we regret that our proposals made at first reading have not received the approval of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u75	Neither are ours! They're the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u76	Minister, we have heard of your willingness to re-launch work to develop birth-promoting measures as early as 2019 and your desire to involve parliamentarians. Be assured that the members of the MODEM Group will work with you to find solutions tailored to this important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u77	We have to keep the Senate text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u78	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM Group will support the restoration of a sincere and balanced budget, with the ambition of continuing the work undertaken over the past year and a half.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u79	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u80	We are starting a new reading of the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. I would like to associate my colleagues in the Socialist and related group, in particular Joël Aviragnet, our leader on this text, with whom we have put forward several proposals inspired by our alternative budget. Before I elaborate on my point, I would like to go back to the changes suggested by our colleagues in this chamber. Among them, the initiatives of socialist senators have had the merit of improving some of the points in this bill. Linked to strong expectations, they enrich our debates. This is the case, for example, of taking responsibility for the full reparation of the damage suffered by persons suffering from diseases related to the use of plant protection products. It involves the creation of an indemnification fund abounded by the manufacturers of these products. I very much regret that our committee has removed this provision, which will come back in our debates in the form of a full bill. I am also thinking of maintaining the TODE exemption thresholds and of compensating the abolition of the CICE in the agricultural sector, whose representatives are not convinced by your position. In this particular case, we contest your choice to reconsider the provision adopted by the Senate. We believe that many farmers, including marketers and wine growers, need this exemption to employ seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u82	The compensation you're planning will not be full. It will weaken our agriculture in the short term, despite our warnings and proposals. I will take one last example: the removal of the lump sum for the reorientation of false emergencies into city medicine. Again, senators have been discerning the scope of this measure – a lie, in fact – that will not prove effective without the mobilization of city doctors. The Joint Joint Committee has not reached an agreement. And because the points of disagreement did not allow us to move forward on a compromise text. We cannot prejudge a different outcome in the light of our debates last week in committee. This new reading takes place in a context of social rumbling, in which you prefer to persist in choices that remove the principles of social security from an increase in social justice. The media movement of mistrust of the "yellow vests" must not hide the mobilization of nurses last week, the various mobilizations in public hospitals such as the maternity of the White and in the EHPADs, nor the dissatisfaction expressed by pensioners – I am thinking in particular of agricultural pensioners who despair of the lack of consideration. The debates at first reading did not resolve doubts about the misleading appearances of your ambitions. Nor did they convince us that the French would be the winners of your choice. Unfortunately, this will be the opposite for a majority of them, especially the most modest and middle-class. In general, the broad guidelines contained in this PLFSS are not satisfactory. In line with your fiscal and economic orientations, they make our social security evolve towards an Anglo-Saxon model that is totally distorted from its founding values. This PLFSS persists in contradicting the vision of a welfare state that is supposed to ensure the protection of the most modest and, more broadly, of our weak citizens. This is proof of the change in the model of financial relations between social security and the state. The potential future surpluses of social accounts will now have to abound the state budget to reduce the deficit rather than serve the improvement of our health care system. In this way, you plan to siphon the social security receipts by the State. That is why our group has decided to table an amendment to abolish this transfer and another amendment to preserve the financial autonomy of social security. I would also like to thank you for your obstinacy on the quasi-freezing of family benefits and retirement and disability pensions for the next two years. This will affect thousands of our compatriots. In a context of return to balance, increasing our room for manoeuvre, this stubborn choice will result in a loss of purchasing power, since inflation of 1.7% in 2019 will be higher than the 0.3% retained rate. I would like to point out, again, that there is a lack of additional resources or initiatives to respond to the social emergency and the difficulties faced by staff in public hospitals, EHPADs and psychiatric services. Finally, I want to point out that there is no response to the danger of medical desertification. The creation of 4000 positions of medical assistants, whose contours remain to be defined, risks turning into perlimpin powder. Among the undesirable effects of your policy, I want to draw your attention to the impact of your choices on the generosity of the French in favor of humanitarian and charitable associations. For the first time in fifteen years, donations are declining due to the transformation of the solidarity tax on wealth and the increase in the CSG. Pensioners give an average of €90 per year; However, for many, this amount corresponds to the amount of the CSG's current increase. More than 82 per cent of the donors of the Secours populaire français are pensioners. The shortfall of EUR 150 million puts at risk the programmes of several associations, which are permanently weakened. It condemns part of your strategy to combat poverty and exclusion. Your CSG increase correction measure will not be able to make up for this vital shortfall.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u84	We agree with your commitment to give all French people access to 100% care in the optics, audiology and dental sectors. However, it appears that "100% health" will be financed jointly by social security and health-care supplements: social security will not cover 100%. It should be recalled, on the one hand, that not all French people have complementary health care and that not all of them will be able to benefit from this measure, and, on the other hand, that the cost of complementary health care is proportionally more burdensome on the budgets of modest households than on those of affluent households. I would also point out that certain provisions of Article 49 introducing a principle of fungibility between all social security benefits could increase the financial difficulties of certain beneficiaries in precarious situations. This is a premature measure before the start of the dialogue on the universal income of activity. In conclusion, the ambitions of the PLFSS for 2019 differ inexorably from the values of solidarity and social justice. Despite the return to balance, economies weigh on the most vulnerable, families, persons with disabilities and pensioners. This is all the more unbearable in the face of the favours granted to an extreme minority of the most affluent. Finally, this second PLFSS of the quinquennium amplifies your desire to establish social justice backwards, reserving the last privileges to the first few of the ropes. More seriously, the intentions of the text demonstrate the inadequacies of the commitments made in the various strategies of the field of social action, such as the road map "age and autonomy", the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty and the plan "my health 2022". You damage the machine of the redistribution of purchasing power and prevent the success of the fight against inequalities. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Members of the Socialist and Related Group will again make a number of proposals to correct your intentions in order to support purchasing power, to preserve the resources of our social protection system and to quickly assess the impact of your measures on contribution exemptions or "100% health".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u85	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u86	It is therefore in its version, as amended by the Senate, that we are about to consider, in new reading, the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill. This project has been supplemented and enriched significantly in relation to the text that emerged from our discussions in this House. But it must be noted that the examination of this PLFSS, like the way in which our debates took place last year, reveals first of all a problem of method. In these times of constitutional reform, what sense do we want to give to bicameralism and the parliamentary shuttle? Should the latter inevitably be reduced to a sterile game between the National Assembly and the Senate, through the adoption of irreconcilable versions of the same text? Or can we imagine that between the PLFSS adopted by the National Assembly and the one adopted by the Senate, we can reach a common ground sufficiently united to undertake the in-depth reforms that our social security system needs? It is a real question that we are asked collectively: our group is convinced that no majority of any kind will ever be right on its own when it comes to changing our social protection and bringing together the largest majority of our compatriots on the objectives and means of achieving this. To be shared, a reform must be understood – the news of the last week still shows it with seriousness. However, it must be noted that on this PLFSS, like last year, the majority wants to be right on their own. The abolition in committee last week of a large number of amendments made by the Senate augur well for a similar attitude in the House. We can only regret this, even though we should be able to elaborate this bill further upstream, through more regular exchanges between the Government and the parliamentary groups of the two assemblies, in order not only to set out the priorities and expectations of each, but also to co-build the text. But there must still be political will to do so. In examining this PLFSS, the Senate has endeavoured to provide answers to two imperatives for the sustainability of our social protection: to modernize the solidarity mechanisms that provide our citizens with an indispensable safety net in order to cope with the different stages of life and to ensure more justice in the effort we collectively have to ensure that our social security and its financing adapt to the changes that are going through our society and have an impact on the balance of social accounts. We had already described, at first reading, the elements of this PLFSS that we believe are going in the right direction. The IDU, Action and Independent Group can therefore only welcome the prospect of a return to balance of social accounts in the run-up to next year. As far as revenue is concerned, we approve of the conversion of the CICE and the CITS into reductions in long-term social security contributions, as well as of the exemption from wage social contributions applicable to overtime. These are two measures that we have been proposing for several years. However, this PLFSS does not yet seem to us to reflect the implementation of the structural reforms which we believe are necessary to ensure a lasting return to the budgetary balance of social security. The improvement of the accounts still seems to be based too much on the revenue generated by the dynamism of the wage bill, on tax increases and on measures of savings which are part of the plan, whether for the hospital or the medicine, in line with what has unfortunately been practiced in previous years. While economic growth is on the move, there is still a high risk of returning to deficits at the slightest turnaround in economic conditions. The Court of Auditors points out that the deteriorating health insurance situation is one of the main areas of fragility of our social protection. Moreover, the financial situation of hospitals, whose 2017 deficit reached a record 835 million euros, remains critical, even though the debt of public hospitals remains at around 28.8 billion euros. The increase of ONDAM to 2.5% planned in 2019 does not meet the financing needs of public hospitals, whose investments are delayed. Thus, we believe that this bill falls short of the expectations raised by health care professionals by the stated goals of the "My Health 2022" plan – which, for some of them at least, we support. No doubt this PLFSS suffers from being examined while the law concerning our health system will only be examined at the end of the first half of next year: the readability of the public health objectives set out in this draft budget is only more difficult. It is all the more regrettable that this PLFSS confirms the choice made last year by the Government to solicit more retirees through the 1.7-point increase in the CSG for the financing of our social security. It is a choice to which we have opposed and with which our group remains in disagreement. We approved the measures presented to mitigate the effects of this CSG increase for retirees with modest incomes. However, they are still insufficient and we have proposed to further protect pensioners from this increase by increasing the number of consecutive years of reference income taken into account in applying the normal CSG rate from two to three years. The freezing of retirement pensions is also a provision which gives the impression that the effort to finance social security is decidedly made on the same category of persons. As a result, we can only approve the measures adopted in the Senate to preserve the purchasing power of retirees by re-establishing pension valuations based on the evolution of the price index. Finally, some amendments tabled at first reading by our group and rejected by the Government and the majority were adopted in the Senate. In particular, this is the case with the re-establishment of the tax exemption scheme for seasonal agricultural employers. Our discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs last week demonstrated your willingness to once again abolish this scheme in favour of casual workers seeking employment and replace it with an exemption measure which is actually less attractive to agricultural employers. We regret this choice, while our farmers need more than ever a competitive workforce to compete with other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u87	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u89	That's why we will under-amend your device, in order to increase the total charge exemption from 1.15 to 1.25 SMIC from 2019. In order to combat medical deserts more effectively, Senators have also raised the income limit for the exemption from pension contributions for retired doctors working in subdenses to 90,000 euros per year. This measure is useful to facilitate access to the care of our citizens in territories where it is increasingly difficult to consult a health professional. Rather than simply abolishing it, we will propose to include it in the law, leaving it to the regulatory power, however, to determine the appropriate level of exemption, without weakening the financial balance of the Caisse autonome de retraite des médecins de France. Finally, you know that our group is attentive to the territorial approach to health issues. We believe it is necessary to take better account of the differences in the health situation between the territories. If we are to better meet the needs of the population in terms of access to care, we need to be able, upstream, to further modulate the effort to modernise infrastructure, supplement hospital facilities and invest where the gaps are most acute. It is with this will that we have once again proposed that a regional approach be taken to the objectives of health insurance expenditure, in order to regulate expenditure which takes more account of regional disparities. In the same spirit, we will also propose a national assessment of the impact of regional investment fund credits on regional situations. You have refused to take these two proposals into account, considering that the current mechanisms of ONDAM and the Regional Intervention Fund – FIR – were sufficient, but it must be noted that this is not the case and that we need to innovate in our methods in order to draft a social security financing bill that will make it possible to fill the delays in health in certain regions. Our group really wants to be able to engage with you in a reflection on this subject outside of the review periods of the PLFSS, in order to provide us with new tools to regulate health insurance expenditure that are both fairer, closer to the reality of the territories and more effective. In keeping with its attitude as a constructive opponent, the IUD, Action and Independent Group is approaching the second reading of this PLFSS with a constant desire to bring solutions that will sustain our social security. We also want to ensure that the balance of funding for the latter, which is based less on work and more on national solidarity, is also fairer, particularly as regards the effort required of our citizens in retirement. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Without a more meaningful orientation of this PLFSS in this direction, unfortunately we will not be able to approve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u90	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u91	"So where are we going? At the Champ de Mars? In Republic? At the Bastille? It was Alain who, in the bus for Paris this Saturday morning, was sounding the "yellow vests" of the Somme. A chorus of "At the Bastille! To the Bastille! In response, he said. And voices added: "We need a revolution! Yes, a new May 68! » Ten days ago, it's been a wake-up call. The awakening of the Johanna, auxiliary of social life to Albert, of the Arnauds, artisan-terrassier at Rosières-en-Santerre, of the Jeanines, retired from the garbage trucks in Flixecourt, which I have seen, for twenty years, in my corner, give up and sink into indifference, despair, impotence – what can we, who are so small, against Paris, against the fat, against France from above? In the minds, the resignation began as a poison, by means of serial closures – the Whirlpool washing machines left Picardie for Slovakia and the Goodyear tyres for Poland, while Continental preferred Romania, like the sofas of the Parisot family. To the Flodor chips, to the potatoes, which are gone! In the face of this shipwreck, the elite never struggled. She let it happen, she consented, applauded free trade. She added the closures of posts, classes, stations, hospitals and maternity wards. In the countryside, in the "periphery", as they say, there has been a feeling of what-good, of abandonment. An abandoned France, invisible, has crouched. A France in pain, but in silence. A France humiliated, but silent. And for the last two weeks, this invisible France has been wearing yellow vests – fluorescent, even – and is visible until the night. Now she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's up, she's Now, on the roundabouts, she's talking, she's talking and she's rumbling around a bramero. "We can't let them eat the wool on our backs anymore. "We, down below, we're making a mess, and they're making fun of themselves. "When I get grilled by a radar, I pay my 90 euros, but they escape tax. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u92	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u93	It is said without chichis, but what is felt is a vast feeling of injustice. What is demanded is justice, just justice. Do we do this evening, ladies and gentlemen, work of justice? What are we going to vote in a few hours? The flagship measure, the most expensive measure of this budget, will be the doubling of the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, which – boom! – from EUR 20 billion to EUR 40 billion. And who are those 40 billions going to go to? Half to the multinationals. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The first beneficiary, in the private sector, will be Carrefour, which dismisses 4,500 cashiers, which closes 273 stores in France and which nevertheless receives 137 million from the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – I said well: "employment". And at the head of Carrefour, who's the first shareholder? Bernard Arnault, with his yacht under the Cayman Islands flag and 202 offshore subsidiaries in tax havens. Bernard Arnault, supporter of President Macron, Bernard Arnault, who dresses Brigitte in Vuitton. Bernard Arnault, not hunted by the tax authorities or searched, but invited to dinners at the President's table. And after Carrefour, who is the second beneficiary of the CICE? Auchan, the Mulliez family, who resided in Malta in his insurance activities and exiled his fortune in Belgium. That's what good citizens, by your votes tonight, you're going to reward!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u94	What a prosecutor!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u95	How would the others, the 60 million others who pay VAT, the CSG, the TV charge, the housing tax and property taxes, not be disgusted? How, in fact, do you intend to finance this doubling of the CICE? It is written here, in all letters, black and white, in the draft budget plan which you have sent to Brussels: an increase in environmental taxation and the tobacco tax. It is very clear: smokers will not finance a health plan, but they will pay Bernard Arnault's CICE.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u96	Your words are outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u97	Motorists will not invest in the energy transition, but they will contribute to the Mulliez.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u98	It's no longer love, it's rage!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u99	And where have the yellow vests been protesting for two weeks? At highway entrances, which protesters make free. It's a symptom, I think. A symbol. Re-appropriation. Because they could be free, those highways that the French paid and repaid at least three times. Ten years ago, the state, the technocrats of Bercy, the Ministry of Economy, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, all the brave gentlemen who play the good managers and the saving fathers of families, sold our highways to the lowest bidders. I say well to the lowest bidders – with 10 billion euros in rebates, as the Court of Auditors has proven. Since then, Eiffage, Vinci and Abertis have been drinking. The Autorité de la concurrence denounced it without a doubt: "Motorway companies all have an exceptional net profitability, comprised of 20% and 24%, fed by the continuous increase in toll rates. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u100	Shouldn't we be talking about the PLFSS?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u101	We have returned to feudality, with tolls to pay, which give dividends to the shareholders of Vinci, Eiffage and Abertis: 4.5 billion euros each year – enough to make public transport free in all the cities of the country. But that lesson wasn't enough. These are now the airports that you deliver to the voraces and the French games that you leave to the vultures. But on the dams, who are the protesters attacking, and with virulence? It must be admitted that it is not to Vinci, to Eiffage, to the Mulliez family or to Bernard Arnault, but to us – to the politicians, to the President, to the deputies. To you, to us – to you, above all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u102	And also to the merchants!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u103	And they're right. Indeed, who will be surprised that firms aim for profit, all profit and nothing but profit? Who will it shock that they resort to social, fiscal and environmental dumping? Not me, because that's their law. But what is expected of politics – of you, of us – is precisely that it protects citizens from this greed, that it interposes between the fort and the weak, that it regulates, that it rebalances, that it defends the general interest against multinationals. The opposite is the case: the betrayal of the state, of its leaders, of an elite that has turned against its people. I hear about "lobby," but this word is optimistic, because it involves pressure from the outside. From within, however, the state is colonized by private interests and rots today. And, like fish, it rots through the head.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u104	Like La France insoumée!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u105	centrist François Bayrou asked himself, out loud, on September 7, 2016, about Emmanuel Macron: "Ask yourself a question, why these hours and hours of live television, why these magazine covers, why these pages and pages of colour photographs around subjects, stories that are, you will admit, empty enough? » The moderate leader of MODEM replied: "There is behind all this an attempt, already made several times, of very great financial and other interests that no longer merely have economic power. They want to have political power. I do not want the state to be caught in such an operation," he added.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u106	[[Smile]] Then, of course, he said the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u107	For eighteen months now, but for a long time now, the state has been caught up in this operation. The state is in the hands of a class. The state is in the hands of a caste. The Macron tree must not hide the forest of financial inspectors, senior officials, civil administrators, former Treasury officers, who slip and slip, who organize looting, the looting of social security, the looting of public services, the looting of national goods, which deliver the best pieces to the financiers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] The philosopher Paul Ricoeur, the master of Emmanuel Macron, wrote that the danger today is that the management of business is taken over by oligarchies of skills, associated with the powers of money. Here we go. We have both. We have the oligarchies of competence; We have the powers of money. So yes, with or without yellow vests, with Johanna, auxiliary of social life, with Arnaud, artisan-terrassier, with Jeanine, retired from the garbage trucks, in front of the lords of the ENA, facing the marquis of Polytechnique, there are still a thousand Bastilles to take!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u108	Without your colleagues who are obviously not here! You're all alone tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u109	It doesn't scare me! If we are alone here, we are many outside!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u110	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u111	I think it is useful to recall that we are considering the Social Security Financing Bill this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u112	It's good to hear it say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u113	With the 40 billion CICE doubled!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u114	Only Mrs Lazaar has the floor, Mr Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u115	For the first time in 18 years, we are presenting a balanced social security budget. With this bill on the financing of social security, on the one hand, we keep our commitment to desist from social security, on the other, we set the framework for ambitious public policies on health, the fight against exclusion and poverty, or the accompaniment of dependency. Let us not let ourselves be trapped in a false debate today that would set the budget at stake against the social issue! On this text as on so many others, we must be wary of the simplifying answers that more often reflect a short-term political issue than a coherent vision of the issues that our country must address. That is why, if they can give rise to beautiful statements about the stage, the policy of the plank or the policy of the billboard will never constitute a real answer to the stakes of our country, which are no longer the same as yesterday. The population is ageing, making it more urgent than ever to deal with the subject of addiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u116	I didn't see anything about that in your text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u117	Life paths are more fractured and uncertain. The labour market is more competitive. Today, our responsibility is to respond to these concrete challenges for our fellow citizens by building the foundations of a new welfare state that must necessarily go towards more prevention, be fairer, and better accompany the French. This triple ambition is the backbone of the strategies for combating poverty and transforming the health system presented by the President of the Republic. These two initiatives, which meet our campaign commitments, find in this text first concrete translations that millions of French will be able to see on a daily basis. This budget is concrete in terms of access to care. Nearly 1.5 million French people will benefit from a health supplement of less than 1 euro per day, following the merger of the complementary universal health insurance – CMU-C – and the health supplement – ACS. The French will also be able to see the first zero-charge effects of the remainder in optics, audiology and dentistry. Glasses, hearing aids, dental prostheses must be accessible to all. This budget is concrete for the payroll and for employees. We will continue to reward work better by exempting overtime from pay contributions. After the increase observed by all employees in October, this is a new measure which will be seen on the payroll. For an employee at SMIC, it will result in an average gain of 200 euros per year. This budget is also concrete for families. We will extend the maternity leave of self-employed workers from 74 to 112 days to make it equivalent to that of employees. How could we accept that an independent worker will only receive six weeks of maternity leave until now? We create a specific paternity leave for parents of premature children, in order to allow the father to be present for his child and for the mother in a time that can be difficult. For families of children with disabilities, we will increase childcare support by 30 per cent and extend it to kindergarten. Finally, this budget provides concrete protections for those who need it. It makes it possible to increase the minimum old age by 35 euros and the allowance for adults with disabilities by 40 euros. It strengthens healthcare staff within the EHPADs, whose difficulties are known, with an emergency envelope of 125 million euros released for 2019. At Argenteuil, I saw the reality of this profession, of its difficulties, as well as the commitment of the staff. This is an essential step. While strengthening mechanisms and rights is important, it is only half the way. They still need to be made effective. Today, for example, 30 per cent of those who would be entitled to the AHR do not ask for it. Combating this so-called "non-recourse" phenomenon will be one of the objectives of the universal income of activity, the text of which lays the foundations. This is also the objective of the work we have been doing for months with members of the majority to enable foreign pensioners who have contributed in France to assert their rights. This is in particular the case of the "Chibanis", these workers who came from the Maghreb from the 1950s. Today, when they want to settle for retirement in their country of origin, they lose their access to social security, although they have often contributed throughout their lives in France. We are confident that, after a thorough work with the associations and the Government, we will be able to make concrete progress in this text so that the 300,000 Chibanis and foreign pensioners will benefit, like all pensioners, from social security coverage in France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond all the concrete measures that I have been able to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate to you how much the issue in my view deserves to go beyond the debates of circumstances in order to bring a true vision, which will bring concrete answers to the French, for the workers, for the most fragile, for the families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u118	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u119	They're retired, they're nurses, they're caregivers, they're paramedics, they're students, and they've been living less well for a year and a half. You have the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to live less well together. You methodically deconstruct the building patiently built by France, by modest French who made France, workers, employees, civil servants, healthcare and educational personnel who have built a social model all over the world envied. Your 2019 Social Security Financing Bill violates this model. Its Article 80 provides that health institutions now have responsibility for the financing of inter-hospital transport previously taken over by the National Health Insurance Fund – I mean ambulances. Thus, the competition between healthcare companies and their obligation to respond to invitations to tender will, of course, lead to largely undesirable effects by weakening TPEs and SMEs in this sector. This is an umpteenth profession threatened with uberization. In fact, in order to respond to calls for tenders, these health transport companies will often have to regroup or agree to work below their cost. In this situation, large groups will obviously be tempted to invest in the market in order to kill traditional French competition. And we know this: the weakening of SMEs means the weakening of territories. It's up to you, Stéphane, ambulance attendant in Lourches, in charge of a small structure, that I think tonight. This PLFSS does not take into account nurses or, more specifically, Liberal nurses. This profession, which is so important in the fight against medical deserts, feels legitimately forgotten by the Government. It is to you, Manuel, Marie-Laure, Corinne, Beatrice, who have come to my permanence, that I think tonight. The classification of acts has not changed since 2002. It should be updated urgently to allow Liberal nurses to live in dignity from their work. They practice one of the last health professions that quadrifies our territories every day by going to the patient's home. As part of their activity, they travel on average several thousand kilometres a year, and they also suffer from the rise of fuel. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Instead of supporting this fragile profession, the Government decided, in the PLFSS for 2019, to put it in competition with other professions whose prerogatives are extended, and even to create an ex nihilo profession, medical assistants, kind of hybrid between secretaries and nurses. Once again, you deconstruct, you damage, you weaken professionals and territories, all this, I was going to say, without the minister even looking up – but she probably prefers to text rather than listen to me and look at me when I talk to her about the suffering of a number of caregivers in our territory. This contempt, ma'am, you embody it through your behaviour in the Chamber! Intergenerational solidarity is one of the main principles that should guide social policy. However, because of you, the CSG weighs more and more on pensioners, and the total lack of revalorisation of their pensions resonates like the desire for a proper de-icing. I am thinking in particular this evening of pensioners in the commune of Artres, who asked me yesterday to pass on their message. Moreover, the ever-increasing reception of immigrants in our country will mobilise €1.5 billion of the nation's budget in 2019, an increase of 14%. What is the state budget that has increased in these proportions? "Squeeze the belt, and make room for those who arrive! » As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, of course we cannot accept this PLFSS. Although we are turning it back in every direction, we see only injustices and inequalities. The news keeps reminding us, the inequalities that divide our territory are numerous. With you today, it is not the runoff that is in progress, it is the great downgrading, the downgrading of a people, the downgrading of a nation that is already asking for your resignation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u120	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u121	Our project has major commitments, in particular increasing purchasing power, improving access to care and improving the quality of public services. We have listened carefully to the expectations of our fellow citizens, which we have translated into the project that we have been implementing for 18 months. These same expectations resonate vigorously in yellow today. The 2019 Social Security Financing Bill is a continuation of these commitments. He is the marker of the promises he has kept: we are giving ourselves the means to realize, as of 2019, our ambition in the field of social policy and health. In the field of health, the PLFSS will enable us to translate into action, as of 2019, the priorities chosen as part of the strategy of transformation of the health system. This ambitious plan, "my health 2022", will, I am sure, bring solutions worked by the players of the system and expected by our citizens. This PLFSS reorganizes the care system with a price that is more adapted to patient care pathways. It encourages the new professional organizations of tomorrow, which will relegate to oblivion the partitioning of our health professionals. This text thus marks the beginning of this great change in health. We have before us objectives, a strategy, and above all very concrete answers which, I am convinced, will fully correspond to the expectations of our citizens. Like all of us, ladies and gentlemen, they are very attached to our health care system. They expect us to be able to make it ever more efficient, more efficient, and better suited to their needs. The measures we propose, the ones we are going to discuss again, meet three essential objectives: expanded and strengthened prevention, faster and easier access to care, and a more efficient and effective care system. First, with regard to prevention, which is the cornerstone of health improvements for all, PLFSS is innovating. In concrete terms, this involves the generalisation of influenza vaccination by pharmacists, but also the redeployment of the 20 compulsory medical examinations to allow for better care for young people, especially adolescents, and the transformation of the tobacco fund into a fund to combat addictions related to psychoactive substances. Second, this PLFSS carries out very strong measures to improve access to care for all by placing a zero-load leftover in the areas of optics, hearing and dentistry, but also by strengthening the extended supplementary health care schemes, which will allow 1.4 million insured people to be better reimbursed. Finally, this PLFSS puts in place route pricing instead of fee-for-service for chronic diseases such as diabetes and kidney failure, thus promoting prevention and quality of care for patients. This evolution of the funding method, much expected of professionals, will also restore meaning to their mission by putting the patient and medicine at the centre of the funding rules. Article 27 will also make it possible to improve the quality of care by the institution, as early as 2019, of a system of bonus-malus to quality in health facilities. You will grant me that this is a genuine political commitment to improving the quality of care. Finally, this PLFSS will allow the experiment of a reorientation package for patients arriving in emergencies, in order to reduce their waiting time, and will allow 60000 fathers of children hospitalized at birth to benefit from extended paternity leave. There are many numbers in this PLFSS; I'll keep two of them. First, ONDAM's growth rate is higher than 2.5% this year, the highest rate in six years: this reflects the priority we place on our commitments. Secondly, the projected balance for 2019 is over 700 million euros: we are all the more pleased that social security has been in deficit for 18 years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These figures make sense, as they aim to strengthen prevention, especially among young people, to improve access to care and the quality of care. In short, these amounts will gradually change the face of health so that it contributes to the well-being of our fellow citizens, first and foremost the most fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u122	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u123	I now call the clauses of the bill. I remind you that the Senate voted in accordance with the first and second parts of the bill. As a result, we are now addressing the third part of the bill, concerning the revenue and general balance provisions for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u124	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 180, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u125	The purpose of this amendment is to delete an article added to the Senate. I have heard what Mr.Vercamer has said, but it is not a matter of us systematically opposing what the High Assembly has done – you will see that we will take back certain provisions introduced in the Senate. This article, resulting from an amendment adopted by the Senate majority, aims to exempt employers of volunteer firefighters from employer contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u126	It's a great thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u127	We understand the intention of the authors of this provision: it is a matter of remedying the crisis of volunteerism of firefighters in the territories. But we do not think it appropriate to introduce an exemption from employers' contributions. I want to elaborate on the reasons for our disagreement with the High Assembly on this point. The Senate intends to exempt any employer who hires a volunteer firefighter from employer contributions. This would still represent a public expenditure of EUR 114 million. Moreover, the benefit of this expenditure would go to the employer and not to the volunteer firefighter – knowing that they are already exempt from salary contributions – in order to encourage him to hire volunteer firefighters. This poses an obvious problem of equality between employers, as well as between employees – why would firefighters qualify for a contribution exemption and not the others? This would also constitute discrimination in hiring to the detriment of those who are not volunteer firefighters. In addition, if a person who was a volunteer firefighter at the time of hiring ceases to be a volunteer firefighter, the administration would not be able to apply employer contributions again. Finally, if we ever wanted to devote public resources to volunteerism among firefighters, we might as well do so directly for the benefit of firefighters and not their employers. With this system, the volunteer firefighters, motivated, courageous, aware of the general interest, would go to the fire, and the reward would go to their bosses, who they do not go! We have already expressed our deep disagreement on this point, with the Minister of Solidarity and Health and with the Minister of the Interior. A report has been commissioned and measures will be taken for firefighters; the Assembly will be associated with this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u128	It is not the firefighters who are the problem: it is the lack of volunteers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u129	We do not think it would be a good thing to exempt employers who would hire volunteer firefighters from employer contributions, which is why the Government has tabled this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u131	The committee gave an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u132	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u133	Firstly, Mr Minister, on the substance, you have recognised the need to support the volunteer firefighters: the House is therefore unanimous on this point. On the other hand, I find it difficult to understand your interpretation of the provision passed by the Senate. You say that volunteer firefighters would not benefit from this employer contribution exemption, but the problem is not to improve their income level! In our country, the system of relief to goods and people sits mainly – not only but mainly – on volunteerism, thanks to the 197000 volunteer firefighters. Volunteering is declining, as it is increasingly demanding, and requires more and more training. But another reason for these difficulties lies in the fact that it is increasingly difficult to find entrepreneurs who accept that one of their employees can, from one minute to the next, abandon their jobs in order to help the goods and the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u135	[[Gilles Lurton and Virginie Duby-Muller applaud]] If we do not encourage employers to hire volunteer firefighters, then they will have to be replaced by professional firefighters. We must ask ourselves the question of the cost of this replacement for the nation: it will be much more than 600 million euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u136	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u137	Yes, I do! That's exactly what's going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u138	Yes, Mr. Minister! Even if you have less time than us, you are certainly attending the festivities of the Holy Barbe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u139	Yes, don't worry about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u140	[["Very good! » on several benches of the LR group]] In any case, we parliamentarians do not miss it. And when we take part in these parties, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, in our constituencies, these are the concerns we hear. That is why your argument is not valid: I think, on the contrary, that we should encourage employers to recruit volunteer firefighters, or to accept that one of their employees is committed as a volunteer firefighter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u141	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u142	Minister, our fire and rescue safety system is based on two pillars: on the one hand, about 40,000 professional firefighters, notably in Paris and Marseilles, who supervise the SIDS – the departmental fire and rescue services – and on the other hand, 200,000 volunteer firefighters, present whenever they are needed. Across France, firefighters are released every seven seconds. However, the employers of volunteer firefighters must allow them, especially during the day, to leave. There are not only farmers and artisans among them, there are also employees. Sometimes, companies enter into agreements with SIDS, but whether or not there is an agreement, employers often do not reduce the remuneration of volunteer firefighters who have had to leave their jobs to go into intervention – especially when it comes to small rescue centres. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all employers find an interest in having volunteer firefighters among their collaborators. We have long sought solutions with insurance, with the possibility for firefighters to provide training within companies. With this article, the Senate proposes a tangible measure: to exempt employers of volunteer firefighters from certain employer charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u143	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u144	MM. Sermier and Saddier explained very well what I would have wanted to say. So I will not add anything about them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u145	This is a very useful intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u146	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u147	As our colleague Martial Saddier said, we are indeed starting our tour of the ceremonies of the Holy Barbe in the relief centres of our constituencies. In this context, the Federation of Volunteer Firefighters systematically reminds us how difficult it is for small rescue centres to find volunteer firefighters. One reason for this disaffection is that employers are increasingly reluctant to count volunteer firefighters in their workforce. This presupposes that in case of an alert – accident, fire – they must let the employee in question go: it is a strong constraint which thus weighs on the company. Exempting employers from the employer's burden would encourage volunteerism. This would make it easier for employers to accept the fact that some of their employees have to leave their workplace in the event of an alert. This is a real problem, especially in rural and mountain areas, Minister. It does not arise in urban areas, in Lille or in Paris, where firefighters are mainly professionals, but in rural and mountain areas, where they are only volunteers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u148	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u149	Today, some rescue centres are no longer in a position to respond to alerts, as they no longer have enough staff to rescue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u150	Yes! That's the reality in these territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u151	This measure is useful: it therefore deserves support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u152	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u153	I would like to move a little in the direction of the minister: it is not through a Senate amendment that this problem can be dealt with globally. There is today a debate on the application of the European Working Time Directive; There are real threats to the French voluntary system. This system is practiced by six or seven countries of the European Union, but it does not correspond to the canons of the European Commission – which is not the most serious – nor to those of the majority of the countries of the Union. We therefore need a comprehensive reflection on volunteering in order to reaffirm our commitment to this mechanism: this seems essential to me. As part of this reflection, Minister, emphasis should be placed on the mechanisms to assist volunteers in carrying out their duties in relief centres at the same time as their professional responsibilities. I therefore agree with my colleagues in the LR Group on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u155	You cannot, Minister, blame this article for not directly benefiting the volunteer firefighters. They don't ask for money: what they want is an accompanying process, a process to encourage employers to sacrifice part of their employees' working time in order to help the community. The best thing would be for you to engage, with the Minister of the Interior – since you are not the only competent in this area, although you aspired to be – to engage in a reflection on this point. But this reflection must take place soon, and not be delayed until the end of the quinquennium: it must be carried out by the next bill on the financing of social security, i.e. within a year. That is what we are asking you to do. It is true that we are currently participating in the feasts of the Holy Barbe, in all our constituencies, and that in all the rescue centres, the firefighters are asking the State to demonstrate its commitment to the voluntary system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u156	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u157	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u158	Like many parliamentarians, I took part last Saturday in a feast of the Holy Barbe in my department, more precisely in Pierrefitte-sur-Aire. It was in this important cantonal capital that Raymond Poincaré began his political career at the age of twenty-six. I close this parenthesis: if I took the floor, it's not to tell you about Raymond Poincaré, it's about firefighters. At this ceremony, I was strongly questioned by the colonel who leads the SDIS about the decline in the number of volunteers, both in this department and throughout France. Companies, as well as communities, need to be more committed to volunteering. I also had to think about incentives to increase the number of volunteers. As was very well said a few moments ago, if there are fewer volunteers, there will necessarily be more professionals, which will cost the community a lot more.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u159	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u160	It would cost billions of euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u161	I do not know, minister, whether this article added by the Senate should be repeated as it stands; In any case, it is very useful to consider ways of encouraging volunteerism within firefighters, either directly, through exemptions in companies or through other incentives. We have a real interest in imagining new solutions. I hope that we can move forward in this useful debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u162	The Minister has the floor. You know that it's a subject that's always passionate about my colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u163	And the firemen deserve it, Mr. President, it is not you who are going to tell me the opposite! First of all, I would like to reassure Mr Saddier: between two parliamentary debates, the minister that I have remained a local elected official, you know that; He himself took part in the Sainte-Barbe in his former constituency, particularly in his commune, since he had the chance to have a large volunteer fire rescue centre, and he sometimes met with the colonel from time to time who – although he was not himself a volunteer, Mr Saddier – could speak to the volunteer firefighters. What do they say in general? that this function obviously takes time, encroaches on their family life, and that the conditions for the exercise of their volunteerism can cause discouragement whose causes are external to what is the responsibility of the public authorities – I am thinking in particular of the interventions that are going badly and of the fact that they are the first to face the social difficulties of our society, as are also the law enforcement agencies or the SAMU, during their interventions. The volunteer firefighters can thus be injured as they go to the fire, as a result of completely scandalous actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u164	They're pebbled! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u165	What they're looking for is security. Secondly, and this is the most important point, you asked me about the reflection we have to take on labour and labour law. I am not in favour of the Senate amendment, because it will not solve anything: its only effect will be to create additional spending. Is it for social security to pay for entrepreneurs who will hire volunteer firefighters? What if tomorrow, untel isn't? Should the contributions be reinstated? If this provision were adopted, it would certainly be censored by the Constitutional Council, because it would create a clear breach of equality between the employee whose employment would result in an exemption from employer contributions and his colleagues who are not volunteer firefighters. You can see which gas plant, or rather which contribution plant, would have been set up in this way, regardless of the income less for social security. On the other hand, what is unanimous, including clearly among volunteer firefighters, is the fact that the labour law does not grant them the protection available to local elected officials. I would point out that the provisions of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities allow them to assert a certain number of rights before their employer – the possibility of absenting themselves to attend the meetings of the deliberative assembly of the community, of taking training, of not being discriminated against in their professional life because of their elected office. This is what protects their lives as a volunteer elected candidate – rural elected officials are very often quasi-volunteers of public affairs. We need to find a plan for firefighters that allows them to be hired without prejudice to their career or that of their employer. Apart from the fact that it would not be legal, not fair and effective to remove the employer's contribution when he hires a volunteer firefighter, it would be forgetting that this function is mostly occupied during the young years – you know as I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u166	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u167	There are 60-year-old volunteers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u168	Yes, to support firefighters. Yes to the reflection on the subject, and this year, Mr. Habib. You are quite right to say that the issue is urgent, because we all know in our territories how strong the volunteer crisis can be. It is well known that replacing them with professional firefighters would cost public finances – even if the management of volunteer firefighters by SIDS also entails a significant cost, those who have managed departments know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u169	Let's not compare what's not comparable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u170	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, once again, it is not through exemptions from employer contributions that the problem will be solved: on the contrary, it would be at the expense of controlling public expenditure and the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u171	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 29, which deletes Rule 7a B.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u172	The Senate has given the USSRAF a mission that is far removed from their core business, as it would be to have them monitor the compliance of the "responsible contract" with the branch agreement. Verification of compliance with the guarantees laid down in collective agreements is the daily task of the actors in the social dialogue and, where appropriate, of the inspection services attached to the DIRECCTE – Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u173	The Senate has deleted rule 7 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u174	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u175	The Senate has adopted an amendment to exempt from pension contributions the income received by retired doctors who have a replacement activity in medical deserts, up to a maximum of 90000 euros per year and for a maximum of 24 months, thus raising the ceiling of 40000 euros set by decree in 2017. The Government opposes this measure, but health needs a real project and medical deserts require concrete responses. I had proposed at first reading that the creation of health homes in medical deserts should be rewarded with three white tax years for all practitioners who would settle there, followed by a degressive tax exemption. Of course, my amendment was rejected. In order to combat medical deserts effectively, however, there is an urgent need for tax incentives. As in the centres of medium-sized cities, for which I am also proposing attractive tax measures, it is essential to encourage the creation of health homes, just as it is necessary to encourage young retired doctors to continue their activities. Until the end of the numerus clausus finally produces its effects, it is the sine qua non for combating medical desertification. The health of the French is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u176	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u177	In its great wisdom, the Senate introduced this article, which is intended to allow the use of living forces, in this case retired doctors, to try to compensate for the shortage of doctors in the territories called "medical deserts". The proposed measure seems extremely interesting to me, because it would encourage retired doctors to return to work in areas where they are in great need. I am told that the sums involved are too large and are likely to unbalance the doctors' pension fund, or that this is not the time to do so, but the measures proposed by the Government, including the removal of the numerus clausus, will not produce any effects for a good ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u178	More like ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u179	But the problem of medical deserts is now. This article must therefore be maintained. In fact, I have tabled two back-up amendments to keep the substance of it. However, they may fall, as the committee will support an amendment to delete them; That's why I preferred to speak now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u180	On Amendment No 46, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u181	It is the Arlésienne: it has been eight or nine years that we have fought against successive governments to ensure that retired doctors who want to resume an activity are satisfied. The senator from the Loiret has tabled an amendment to that effect, he has obtained unanimity and it has become Article 8 bis A. Here he will be rejected. These ping-pong games are truly regrettable and difficult to live with. In addition to what Mr Vercamer said, I would point out that the independent pension fund for liberal doctors is in favour of this article, as well as the Association of Retired Physicians. This is a simple measure to apply. I would remind you that it would potentially affect 12,000 retired doctors. It is known that many of them need to rework, for many reasons – family reasons, difficulty living in retirement, etc. And then when you're a doctor, you're still a doctor for the rest of your life. There are opportunities for them to rework, either as replacements in health homes or in subdenses. The problem is that they have reached the maximum number of retirement points, and they will not get more, regardless of their additional contributions. It would therefore be easy to exempt them from pension contributions. That's all they're asking for. We would then have an important potential of doctors ready to return to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u182	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u183	Your amendments, Mr Vercamer, and mine, may indeed fall because of the tabling of Amendment No 46 by the Committee on Social Affairs. But I would like to point out that we have already adopted a similar measure in the context of the mountain law, and I would remind our colleague Joël Giraud that we were at the origin of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u184	He's changed his mind since then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u185	In areas of tension, this is a good measure to solve part of the problem of medical desertification. This does not solve everything, it is true that it is better to have young doctors who settle, but it is a way to meet the demand of the population. This measure is useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u187	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 46, which deletes Rule 8a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u188	This amendment was adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs. It is a debate, Mr Door pointed out, that we have had at every PLFSS for years, and still at first reading, but we should not believe that nothing has been done. As proof of this, we voted very massively last year, which exempts doctors in a situation of combined retirement employment up to 40000 euros of income from supplementary pension contributions. At first reading, I think we have found a consensus on this issue as well as on that of ski instructors, namely that the Government will submit to Parliament a report allowing it to have an extremely precise view of all the conditions of employability and of contributions by professional sector and category so that it can make an informed decision, impact studies in support, why not next year. I recall that we do not have any impact studies on this article, that we have no idea of the resulting revenue losses or the real impact it would have on the crucial issue of medical demography, an issue for which the Minister of Health has already presented several avenues on which we will have to work under the "My Health 2022" plan. No bandage on a wooden leg: the committee proposes to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u190	Why am I in favour of deleting this article? I didn't wait seven or eight years to take action on medical deserts, Mr. Door. I took some as soon as I arrived, first as part of a plan to access care presented in October 2017, and then in last year's PLFSS, since your assembly voted for a triple of the annual income ceiling for cumulative retirement employment, which now stands at 40000 euros. Delegates visiting the territories to see how the access to care plan is being implemented are parliamentarians, as it is MP Thomas Mesnier and Senator Elizabeth Doineau. They are accompanied by Sophie Augros, a general practitioner. Last month, they submitted a report to the Monitoring Committee calling for an increase in the ceiling. I consider that all the recommendations of the report must be assessed by the services and assessed with regard to their applicability; They will, of course, be the subject of proposals at the meeting of the monitoring committee in January with a view to their adoption with all partners, namely medical unions, hospital federations, all professional bodies, the Association of Mayors of France, the Assemblée des départements de France et Régions de France. We take decisions on the basis of consultation, after instructions from the services. However, senators have adopted an increase in the ceiling for cumulative employment-retirement to 90,000 euros, i.e. 7,500 euros of net income per month, not to mention the retirement of these doctors... This is not turnover, it is net revenue. These are still large sums, and would be exempt from social contributions. I would also like to point out that the balance of the Caisse autonome de retraite des médecins de France, CARMF, is fragile and that we must be vigilant about its continuation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u191	7.5 billion euros in cash anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u192	For all these reasons, it does not seem to me legitimate to retain this article from a Senate amendment that undermines the entire methodology for the consultation and exploitation of the land proposals that I have defined around the plan for access to care. The Access to Care Plan delegates did not propose to increase this ceiling to that level; they recommended that it be increased in an intermediate manner. We will therefore discuss this in the follow-up committee. I therefore call for the deletion of Article 8 bis A, which in my view is disproportionately in favour of the doctors concerned. There are few general practitioners today who receive 7,500 euros of net income per month in sector 1 when they work in rural areas. In this case, the retired doctors in question would receive not only their retirement pension, but also 7,500 euros net of income on which they would be completely exempt from contributions. If we have to make an effort, it may be more about young doctors who want to settle in. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore propose that you adopt this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u193	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u194	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u195	Madam Minister, this is a good thing because I have tabled Amendment No 299, which is exactly in line with what you have just said: it proposes that paragraph 2 should be supplemented by the words: "within the limits of a ceiling determined by order-in-council".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u196	That's already the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u197	No: Paragraph 2 provides for a ceiling of 40000 euros. This would allow you to easily change that ceiling, and already have the provision in the Social Security Financing Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u198	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u199	Just a clarification of what the minister has just said: the provision in question is not intended to exempt all expenses, but only contributions relating to old-age insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u200	No, she's good at all the charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u201	Reread the amendments, rapporteur-general. We are therefore not asking for an exemption from all charges: this is only for old-age insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u202	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u203	I understand that everyone has an idea of what to do. Simply put, we have now put in place a methodology around the plan for access to care: all stakeholders are discussing in this framework with a view to improving this plan. That is why I propose not to include in the law "hard copy" provisions. Today, the increase in employment-retirement cumulation for the exemption from supplementary pension contributions is done by decree. So I don't need a piece of legislation. Therefore, we can allow the consultation to proceed as planned. I hear this need to increase the cumulative employment-retirement limit: I made a commitment to honourable senators to proceed with this increase at the January 2019 Access to Care Committee meeting. Until then, we will have had time to educate the different scenarii. If proposals will be made on this occasion, which will certainly be followed by actions, I do not need a section of legislation to change this cumulative employment-retirement by order today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u204	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u205	Mrs Dubié, to be perfectly factual, the second sentence of paragraph 2 of the amendment adopted by the Senate, now Article 8a A, provides that: "The income received by the retired physician in respect of his replacement activity shall be exempt from all social and pension contributions provided that it does not exceed 90000 euros per year. » The exemption therefore covers all social contributions, but also pension contributions, which are in principle part of them: they have provided for belts and straps.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u206	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u207	I would not want to deny my agreement with the Government: it is clear that there are a number of provisions in this area to make things a little easier, especially in under-density areas, in particular to allow retired doctors to continue to practice. My question, of which I have already had the opportunity to share in a public session, is as follows: I am absolutely not sure that an additional financial promise will mean that more retired doctors will be committed to performing duties in their territory. It seems to me that this question should be considered; In any case, this is not the mechanism on which we must play.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u208	I put to the vote Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 40 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u210	The Senate has deleted rule 8 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u211	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u212	The Senate passed a 5% revenue tax on the sale of alcoholic food products, i.e. on all products whose composition does not indicate a product mentioned in section 401 of the General Tax Code, but whose labelling of packaging units or outer packaging includes elements or devices that contribute to the promotion of a product mentioned in the same article. You now wish to delete Article 9b, which contains this provision. Yes, alcohol is a scourge, since it causes 50,000 deaths a year, 12 times more than on the road, even if it must be the same people. If the high taxation of these products seems to be a good way to remove them, care must be taken not to be wrong again. Why indeed tax products that do not contain a drop of alcohol? Article 9b refers in particular to non-alcoholic wines or beverages, which are precisely designed and proposed to consumers to enable them to find an alternative without alcohol when sharing, in particular, festive moments. This approach to taxing alcohol-based products could therefore ultimately be counterproductive and also represent a real risk for the aperitif wine sector. Let us be careful not to penalise, with good intentions, the whole sector which is far from the image – the wrong image, I should say – of the rosé Sucette which serves as the basis for these same products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u213	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 316, 2, 25 and 279. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u214	By this amendment, the Government intends to make the observation that going through the tax system to limit the banality of alcohol references is not necessarily feasible. He wished to draw the consequences by proposing the deletion of Article 9 ter adopted by senators. The provision in question corresponds in fact to a question of public health raised at the first reading in this House by the Member of Parliament Audrey Dufeu Schubert. In particular, she had cited the alcohol references, applied in particular to products intended for the youngest – I am thinking of sweets – which help to maintain the banality of the use of certain alcohols. The use of these names must therefore be able to be framed as is the advertising for alcohol. We discussed it at first reading, and it was clear from these discussions that the solution was through regulation, or even ban, and not through taxation. The Senate, for its part, has tried to propose a new drafting of a specific tax system. The analysis carried out since then confirms, however, that the tax route is not applicable, as it would be subject to censorship by the Constitutional Council, whose jurisprudence on behavioural taxation is very strict. The way in which the tax is applied would in fact create risks of unequal treatment which would weaken it in legal terms; taxation of food products alone would, for example, exempt certain products or events which are equally likely to promote alcoholic products from the tax. On the other hand, the tax would only apply to strong alcohols, but not to other alcohols such as wine or beer. More broadly, this article would, paradoxically, lead to taxation only on products which do not contain alcohol, whereas those which contain a dose of alcohol, even if reduced, would be exempted. Thus, a rum flavour or Cointreau flavor ice could be taxed, while an ice actually containing one of these alcohols would not be taxed. Furthermore, given the level of the proposed tax, certain non-alcoholic products could be subject to higher taxation than those applicable to alcoholic beverages, which would not be consistent with the objective of combating excessive alcohol consumption. For all these reasons, the Government considers that it is not possible to ensure the legal conformity and technical feasibility of this tax. I consider, as I said at first reading, that the prohibition of the products concerned seems more relevant in the light of the legal constraints inherent in the creation of behavioural taxes: this is the way I propose to take, which could be the subject of a bill. That is why I am proposing a deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u215	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u216	I call Mr Jean-Pierre Door to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u217	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u218	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u219	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u220	I call Mr Vercamer to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u221	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u222	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u223	The committee is in favour of this. I would add a special word to the attention of our colleague from the majority Audrey Dufeu Schubert, who has led and is still leading a courageous fight on behalf, I believe, of a large part of the Members in this House. One can wonder about the consistency and even the ethics of industrialists using the image of alcohol to sell products to a public for which alcohol is not intended. This question can extend to those who prepare spirits for the future consumption of alcohol: one can sell Mojito candy, but we know very well what the concept of Mojito refers to. There are also drinks called Mojito light, which are offered in the midst of drinks intended for children, such as sodas: it is something that is difficult to conceive of, and even unsustainable, when one knows the ravages of alcohol and how difficult and essential it is to combat alcoholism, especially among the younger ones. The objective is obviously shared on all the benches of this House. The work of our colleague Audrey Dufeu Schubert has brought this problem to light. I have also heard the Minister's statement, which is committed to ensuring that legislative work that will allow the Constitutional Council to proceed is carried out, so that national representation can take a decision on this extremely serious matter. I would like once again to thank our colleague and to express a favourable opinion with regard to these identical amendments – regrettably, but for the reasons mentioned by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u224	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u225	Mr General, Madam Minister, I thank you for your interventions. This subject can only bring us together: on important public health issues, we should all agree. That is why I wanted to table this amendment at first reading in the National Assembly. As you said, it was taken over by the Senate. I agree: technically, it is legally perfectable. I also hear the risk of unconstitutionality that could affect him if he were to be adopted. It is for this reason that I have been working on another amendment, No 220, to clarify elements relating to beer and not only to products referring to spirits. I wanted to insist on the substance of the amendment, because I really think that this is a strong marketing strategy against which we have a real responsibility as political figures. We need to influence things and move this fight forward in order to protect our young people. I welcome your willingness to ban these alcohol-related products, Madam Minister, by giving us the opportunity to work with your services on a bill. I will, of course, be a part of it and will be very interested in doing this work with them. However, I ask myself: could we not extend this bill to a much greater treatment of addictions instead of limiting it to alcohol-related products, since we know that young – and less young – populations are daily assailed with alcohol-related advertising? It seems to me that, as we have said, this is a real public health issue. Madam Minister, could you please repeat the terms of this bill and give us your opinion on its expansion beyond the mere Mojito candy-type alcoholic reference? A report will be issued by the Inter-Ministerial Mission to Combat Drugs and Addictive Conduct, MILDECA; It will certainly open up other opportunities for work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u226	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u227	Member, I am measuring your investment on public health issues. I am very much in favour of working with you on this ban, that is to say, on how we can draft legislation that is technically feasible and perhaps simpler than the tax that was proposed. I am also open, of course, to a broader discussion on the issue of addictions: we will have the opportunity to discuss it in the following article, particularly through binge drinking, acute alcoholisation, among young people. We need to do better, which is the purpose of the "prevention priority" plan that I stand for. A number of measures concern this issue: I will elaborate on them by defending the Government's next amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u228	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u229	The purpose of this article is to extend the so-called "prix" tax, extending its base inappropriately. While there is no doubt that it is necessary to fight the premium, these alcoholic products which are intended for young people, the article extends the tax base far beyond this legitimate target, so that other drinks, such as still wines, sparkling wines or ciders, would be subject to it. This would undermine their economic model, which already incorporates high taxation. It is also a question of whether we still want to see something produced in this country: we will still have this debate, I imagine, on TODE, the burden-relief scheme for casual job-seekers. In any case, maintaining this article in its present form would sign the end of ancestral traditions and of terroir products of excellence, such as Die's cleavage, which everyone knows here. And, since we are talking about bubbles, it would also open a boulevard to our Italian and Spanish competitors, who, very dynamic in exporting, do not demand so much. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us stop cutting through the branch on which our local economies are based, and let us delete together Article 9 quater, the wording of which is particularly inadequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u230	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u231	We must fight alcoholism and excessive alcohol consumption among young people, we all agree. The idea of a tax on premium drinks, often for young people, composed of mixtures between strong alcohol and a sweet drink, deserves reflection. But, as it is written, the article has nothing to do with the primes, since it extends the scope of the tax to a large number of alcoholic beverages, including the macvin du Jura. These quality products, from the terroir, have been known and recognized for very long years. We must therefore ensure, by working towards the hygiene of young people, that all French agricultural and wine production is not abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u232	We come to the amendments. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 317, 92, 110, 117, 168, 169, 183, 218 and 280, to delete the article. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u233	With the alcoholization of young people, we are dealing with a public health problem on which we are all very committed. The Government, with this amendment, does indeed intend to delete the article, which, introduced by way of amendment in the Senate, extends the "premium" tax base. The aim is to extend the tax to aromatised wines, as they are likely to allow for the rapid alcoholisation of the younger ones. In fact, this is a major topic, as 44% of young people, I would remind you, have had a significant one-off alcoholisation – more than five drinks in one evening – in the last month. We must therefore mobilize. However, the article introduced by the Senate extends the current tax base far beyond aromatized wines: other alcoholic beverages, such as still wines, sparkling wines or ciders, would now be subject to it, even though these beverages would not be flavoured. They would thus be subject to a particularly dissuasive level of sampling. For example, a litre of sweet cider measuring only 3 degrees would see its price increase by about 3 euros. A litre of wine, flavoured or not, measuring 10 degrees of alcohol would bear a tax levy of 11 euros. The very design of the tax is problematic in view of its objective, since beverages measuring more than 12 degrees would not be subject to it, which would make possible circumvention strategies, in particular for aromatized wines with a degree of alcohol close to this threshold. Further reflection on the parameters, objectives and impact of this tax is therefore necessary before considering changes in its scope. However, of course, I consider the alcoholisation of young people to be a major subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u234	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u235	We need to further enforce the ban on sale to minors and develop the health service to inform health students about addictions. As part of the "prevention priority" plan, we will sign partnerships between colleges and high schools on the one hand and young consumer counselling services on the other, in order to promote collective prevention actions. Frédérique Vidal's "students" plan also places great emphasis on prevention in a student setting, with interventions by university health services, but also relay students dedicated to the prevention of addictions. Finally, the "prevention priority" plan provides specialized support, with a psychologist or psychiatrist, for all young people admitted to hospital emergencies for excessive alcoholism. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We must therefore do better in terms of prevention, as set out in the plan designed for that purpose; But the article introduced by the Senate, it seems to us, is not reaching the target it is targeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u236	I call Mrs Michel to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u237	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u238	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u239	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u240	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 117, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u241	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u242	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 168.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u243	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u244	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u245	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u246	I call Mr Vercamer to support Amendment No. 183.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u247	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u248	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 218.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u249	Mr Cattin, the first signatory of this amendment, asked me to insist on it. As it stands, in fact, Article 9c places a large number of wine products, which in no way correspond to the target, under the premium tax. Therefore, it would have a very heavy economic and commercial impact for many companies in the sector, which would see their products subject for no reason. Some of the appellation wines, such as the cleavette de Die, the coteaux-du-layon, the marrançon, the liquorous wines of Alsace or some effervescent half-secs, could thus be concerned, as well as the mellow or liquorous wines that do not benefit from a geographical indication.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u250	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u251	Without being a bad comrade, I am a little surprised that honourable senators have allowed such a measure to pass, including, moreover, the senators of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, since, for example, the jurançon and the madiran are targeted, as well as thehursan, as Boris Vallaud reminded me. On the other hand, Minister, it is important that we provide sustainable responses to wine growers who need linear taxation. I therefore hope that you will come into contact with them to remind them of the tax provisions that affect them. In fact, an increase of 11 euros per litre of jurançon, tursan or pacherenc-du-vic-bilh allegedly signed the death sentence of these vineyards.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u252	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u253	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u254	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u255	I want to reply to my colleague from the Socialist and Related Group and to defend, in advance, my amendment No 222, which will no longer have any purpose if the article is deleted. If we delete, in this article, the reference to European Regulation No 1601/31 of the Council of 10 June 1991, we would remove all liquid wines, such as jurançon, from the tax base. Because their sugar levels are very high, they would not be regarded as primes, nor sparkling wines and ciders. To answer also my colleague from the LR group, the first three quarters of them are made with imported wines. In other words, French wines are almost not affected by this type of mixture. What you propose would not necessarily protect our wine sector, since the richness of our heritage lies in the quality of its wines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u256	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u257	I would also like to comment on my amendment No 277, which will no longer have any purpose, either, in the event of the deletion of the article. This amendment tends to reduce the scope of this article introduced by the Senate, so as to target only aromatized wines. As our colleague has just said, the wines used for the production of these rosé drinks, flavoured with grapefruit or other perfumes, are not, for the most part, produced in France. I therefore do not believe that these deletion amendments are likely to support our wine sector. However, the subject is complex and I understand the possible consequences of the adoption of the article. The Minister also stated that she was prepared to hand over the work on the trade. We must, I believe, protect our young people from the consumption of products that are above all very sweet...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u258	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u259	...to mask the degree of alcohol they contain...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u261	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 47, which deletes Rule 10a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u262	This amendment reflects a concern for consistency with the discussions we had at first reading on ski instructors. We found a balanced solution, which was massively supported in the House, to ask the Government to submit a detailed report to Parliament on all these professions. We referred to the particular problems faced by ski instructors, whether they are micro-social or some contributions that are disproportionate to the low level of activity. Three weeks ago, we agreed to propose sustainable solutions next year, if not before, based on sound impact studies. That is why the committee adopted this amendment, which tends to delete the article introduced in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u264	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u265	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u266	Perhaps this amendment will permanently resolve the current situation, but not the situation that will be created in a few days: we will have the opportunity to return to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u267	Further discussion was postponed to the second sitting on Tuesday, 27 November.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1082.u268	Next sitting, today, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
