ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools (No 1176).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u2	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u3	Madam President, the Minister for National Education, the Chairman of the Joint Joint Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today the text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools. Meeting in the Assembly on 18 July, the CMP reached agreement on the text we are proposing to you today. This agreement is the result of a substantive work done with the Senate rapporteur, Mr. Stéphane Piednoir, to whom I wish to pay tribute: together, we have managed to improve and clarify the original text, while enriching it on several points.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u5	Contrary to what some might have suggested, the text is necessary and useful in several respects: it secures schools, by laying down a general principle of prohibition, to which the rules of procedure may derogate, whereas today it is the opposite logic that prevails; It also allows establishments which wish to do so to completely prohibit the use of the mobile phone, which currently raises legal difficulties; Finally, it allows the use of the mobile phone for educational purposes, whereas, until now, such use has been prohibited. We thus arrive at a text based on two pillars: on the one hand, the principle of a ban on mobile phones and other connected objects in schools and colleges, and where appropriate in high schools, to give children a form of "right to disconnection"; on the other hand, strengthening the education of pupils in the use of digital tools and resources, which has become indispensable. We discussed this text extensively at first reading, in committee and in session. The debates have been very lively and have had a certain media impact, which clearly demonstrates the importance of the debate on the use of mobile phones in our society: if the text concerns our children, it prompts each of us to question the omnipresence of mobile phones in our professional and personal spheres, and the daily use we have of them. I will not repeat in detail the provisions of the text. I would simply like to recall that the findings of the people we interviewed were unanimous: teachers and heads of schools, as well as parents of students, stressed the negative consequences of the use of mobile phones in schools on the students' attention abilities, on the school climate, on physical activity in playgrounds, on cyber-harassment practices, or on exposure to violent or pornographic content. The principle of prohibiting and legally securing the mobile phone, while allowing for exceptions under the rules of procedure, is supported by the educational community. We have clarified and completed the original text on several points. We have extended the scope of the text to all connected objects – tablets, connected watches – beyond the mobile phone, to avoid any risk of substitution between devices. We pointed out that teaching practices were one of the exceptions to the principle of prohibition which could be laid down by the rules of procedure of the institutions. It's a subject that I care about, because mobile phones and other tablets can be valuable educational tools, especially in the context of so-called BYOD projects – ring your own device – or, in good French, WITH – bring your personal communication equipment – as long as their use is framed and explained. We have legally secured the possibility of confiscating the mobile phone for teachers, education and management staff: this was a real concern of staff in schools, because the legal regime of confiscation was uncertain and conducive to disputes by students or parents. However, confiscation seems to us to be the most appropriate sanction in this case, in particular because it allows parents to be involved, if necessary, in the return of the mobile phone. The Senate has made improvements to the text that we voted on. It first clarified and simplified the provisions on confiscation. Secondly, it extended its application to secondary schools, opening up the possibility – and not the obligation, I insist on this point – of providing in the rules of procedure for a total or partial ban on the mobile phone. We had debated in the Assembly the question of high schools: it did not seem appropriate to us to put the principle of a ban, as in schools and colleges, but the provision introduced by the Senate seemed relevant to me, because it gives a legal basis to high schools which would like to provide such a ban, while leaving them the choice. Finally, we have introduced three new articles in the text, which aim to strengthen education in the use of digital tools and resources, by encouraging experiments in this field. It seems to me essential to strengthen the role of schools in the education of our children for responsible and informed use of digital technology, so that they develop their critical mind and learn to live in the world as it is, and which has been profoundly transformed since the time when we were on school benches. We must enable children to understand their digital environment and teach them how to use the Internet and social networks responsibly. If the school is to provide students with an environment conducive to learning by promoting all the conditions of their attention and building protection dams against malicious or risky practices that can be generated by digital technology, the school must also – and above all – allow our children to seize all the opportunities. "Progress has only the soul of the one who uses it," said François Mitterrand. While the Senate has expressed some reluctance on some of the digital education provisions, we have wished to retain them, hoping that they will be extended in future work. We will also be able to draw on the report of the fact-finding mission on schools in the digital society, chaired by Mr Studer, which will present its conclusions in the autumn. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The text that I propose to adopt is a concrete step forward for schools, providing appropriate solutions to the difficulties posed by the presence of mobile phones in schools. The work we have done with our colleagues in the Senate should be such as to promote a more serene and soothing 2018 school year for our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u6	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u8	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u9	Madam President, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to coming back to the National Assembly on the occasion of the discussion of this bill, following the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentarians, particularly the rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Senate, Mr.Piednoir: together, they have done a balanced, constructive and useful work that will allow us to move forward on a topic that is not minor. It is a balanced agreement, because it is first and foremost the result of a compromise between the proposals of the National Assembly and those of the Senate. This text has proved all the virtues of bicameralism: the discussions have enriched it. It is also balanced because it poses the prohibition as a principle, but refers the practical modalities of its application to the local actors, who will be able to rely on the clarifications provided by the vade mecum that my administration is developing. Finally, it is balanced because it both shows that the telephone can be a risk or even a danger in the lives of the young children and adolescents for whom we have responsibility, and that the digital civilization must be understood in all the opportunities it opens for our children. The ban on the use of mobile phones will be effective from the start of the 2018 school year in all schools and colleges. This ban addresses both educational issues and school life issues. During teaching activities, prohibiting the use of mobile phones will ensure that students have an environment conducive to the attention, concentration and reflection necessary for activity, understanding and memorization. During recreational times, mobile phone use can be harmful, reducing physical activity and limiting social interactions among students. Its use can prevent the construction of harmonious socialization, essential to the development of children. The heads of institutions tell us all: a court without a cell phone is a court where children play, discuss and live their lives as children. On the other hand, the use of mobile phones is responsible for a large part of the incivilities and disruptions within institutions – breakage, racket and theft. They also often support the phenomenon of cyber-harassment, which also exports violence outside institutions. Institutions that have banned mobile phones are seeing a significant decrease in cyber-harassment, although, of course, this measure cannot completely end it. Finally, mobile phones can facilitate access to violent images, including pornographic images, and banning the use of mobile phones is one of the tools – and of course not the only one – to limit the exposure of younger people to shocking images. If the prohibition on the use of the mobile phone becomes the principle, the text also guarantees flexibility. First of all, of course, we trust the actors – principals of schools, teachers, educational advisers, principals of colleges – to clarify together the modalities of this ban. Each institution, according to its own organization, may define the way in which the law is applied. As I was telling you, the ministry will publish at the end of August a vade mecum, drawn up by my services, in order to accompany the establishments in the practical implementation of this ban. The document will also provide a list of good practices. This text, which is important, must have been of a legislative nature: our debates seem to have shown this not only in terms of its legal nature, but also in terms of its content, as it may have evolved. As the rapporteur has said, he also sends a message to French society, to our society. In fact, the use of mobile phones becomes a social problem, not only for the lives of children and adolescents, but also for the lives of adults. He also sent an international message since, since France had embarked on this path, other countries had shown interest. It is therefore a text of great modernity, a text allowing us to enter the twenty-first century. There is an easy way to think about the entry of technologies into society: it is to believe that all technologies must be adopted blindly. This would be absurd and even, we know, dangerous. The truly modern way of appreciating the arrival of these technologies is to exercise discernment. This requires a defensive approach – because the dangers are real – but also offensive, because if we remain passive to the technologies, they are useless. There is, however, a need for digital education; This is why we will be very attentive to the work of the information mission on school in the digital society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will therefore make progress on this issue in the coming months. The aim is that school really enters the digital age, that our children be protected in this field, but also better prepared for the positive uses that can be made of it in the next century.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u10	In the general debate, Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u11	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 July the Joint Committee responsible for proposing a text on the remaining provisions of the proposal for a law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools has reached an agreement. Unfortunately, this bill is more a matter of political publicity than of serious legislative work. "We will ban the use of mobile phones in primary schools and colleges": this is the campaign promise that can be read on page 17 of candidate Macron's program. Even before our colleague Richard Ferrand tabled the bill we are discussing today, many members of the educational community had expressed doubts about the relevance of such a measure. These doubts are first based on the fact that the law is not silent on the subject. Article L. 511-5 of the Education Code states: "In kindergartens, elementary schools and colleges, the use of a mobile phone is prohibited during any educational activity and in places provided for by the rules of procedure, by a student. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u13	The law therefore already provides for the prohibition of the use of mobile phones in classrooms and in places defined by the rules of procedure. About half of the colleges have already included in their rules of procedure the prohibition of mobile phones in classrooms, or even in all or part of the playground. The second reason for the doubts is that a total ban is not a guarantee of confidence in educational teams. For a majority who continue to advocate decentralization of decision-making, this is a perfectly vertical measure which constitutes an act of distrust towards staff on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u14	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u15	In addition, how can a young person be prohibited from having his or her cell phone in the institution when he or she has been in his or her pocket permanently for several years? Finally, doubts arise from the fact that such a measure poses real logistical and cost problems. Because who will pay, minister, the lockers in which the phones can be placed at the beginning of the course? The departments? Let's imagine, in a college of 1,000 students, all put their phones in a box. How do we store these devices, secure them, differentiate them and return them to their owners at the end of the course? You will answer me that all these questions require answers, not legislative but merely regulatory ones. Maybe. But as we legislate on a text that already has no reason to be legislative, I am sure that you will take the time to answer my specific questions, minister. The doubts I have just expressed, the oppositions and part of the majority in the House have shared them with us. The discussion of this bill was indeed the occasion of a Lepine contest of bad ideas. In this respect, I would mention only the proposal to prohibit teachers from using mobile phones in schools and schools. The parliamentary debate, however, will have moved from the ban to the supervision of the use of mobile phones. For, even if Article 1 shows a ban at school and college, it does not forget to remind that the rules of procedure may decide otherwise. This discussion also demonstrated that the simplistic measure of the ban did not respond seriously to the problem. It is indeed a more comprehensive debate about the rational use of communication tools that we need. We thought that you shared this concern, Mr. Chairman of the Commission, when you decided to create, in January 2018, an information mission on the school in the digital society, the work of which is under way. It seems that your concern for long time has not been shared by the chairman of your group since, four months later, he tabled the text we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u16	Yes! That's completely incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u17	We regret that reversed timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that, for our group, this bill is not up to the stakes, although we shared with you several observations. Your explanatory statement refers to the fact that "the use of mobile phones during teaching activities and in schools causes numerous dysfunctions incompatible with the improvement of the school climate". We cannot, however, follow you on the simplistic solution that you are proposing, as it pursues only a political display objective. That is why the New Left Group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u18	Courageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u19	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u20	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for the usefulness and fertility of our debates, I shall return here to discussions that we have already had. If the subject matter is of importance, the bill before us is of particular importance. The real question is, in fact, how to combat the intrusive nature of mobile phones in the lives of all of us, especially among the younger ones. This, I said, is a substantive subject, which, of course, concerns the educational community in the first place. You will, however, allow me a moment of irony. We have just met with the Mondial de Soccer, a very strong media event, at which a player of the French team, Mr Griezmann, was the support of an advertisement, broadcast continuously, for a mobile phone. And what did the President of the Republic do when he received the French football team at the Elysée? He pulled out his cell phone and made a selfie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u21	It's human!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u22	[[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This image has gone around the country, if not more. Was there any pedagogy in this attitude, any restraint on the use of this object? Was there a message addressed, especially to younger generations, to warn them about the permanent use of the mobile phone? Should it be shown that when you receive a sports team, what you have to do absolutely is a selfie?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u24	You see, there's nothing serious about this. You transfer to the educational community the responsibility of taking on the behaviors of some students, which indeed raise real difficulties – and this is the parliamentarian, but also the teacher who speaks to you. The problem is real with students who, in class, no longer accept the authority of the teacher who asks them to store their cell phone, even wear a hat or disturb the course. These behaviours require a pedagogical response, which goes hand in hand with the possibility for the teacher to make use at any time of monitoring facilities or the CPEs – principal education advisors. There is a need for real pedagogical support for the teacher, who is often in difficulty to enforce the discipline. This, I repeat, is a real subject on which we should have taken the time to legislate better. How can we check, for example, that each school has enough supervisors throughout the week so that the teacher can at any time ask them to take a student out of the class? You obviously don't answer that. [[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is a text of circumstance, I said, because it allows you to occupy the antenna of I do not know which news channel or one of I do not know what daily, which I will not quote, with the question of whether one is for or against the mobile phone at school. But no one's for it! I don't know a single person in our society who's in favor of a cell phone in class.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u25	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u26	This has been said: almost all the internal regulations of schools prohibit mobile phones in classrooms, and no teacher tolerates them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u27	Except for educational purposes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u28	If any would tolerate it, they would be punished, including by yourself, minister – and with my congratulations. The question is, therefore, how to ensure that our students are more focused and no longer obey consumer dictates, especially through increasing exposure to advertising. It is, I would remind you, more than 3,000 commercials a day that hit younger people. Do you have any plans to legislate in this area, particularly in order to combat the organized machining of mobile telephone companies to the younger ones? No. On the contrary, departmental councils are asked to build lockers dedicated to mobile phones. As I recall, many schools do not even have storage lockers for students' bags. Before considering lockers for mobile phones, start by giving the students a small space where they could leave their bags. This would prevent them from having to wear heavy manuals, with the physical consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u29	Yeah, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u30	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] [[Smile]] [[Laugh. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Smile]] That is where all the difficulty that has already been reported of the exercise is, Minister. The parliamentary agenda is already very well provided. To the criticisms that we address to you, you object to arguments that are often relevant – because I acknowledge you to be percussive. Mr Blanquer knows that, ladies and gentlemen: I have always considered him a serious man. Beware of applause: this implies that, if he is serious, other ministers are less serious! But for crossing the iron with him, I recognize that he is an adversary of choice. What I mean... You're making me lose the thread, ladies and gentlemen. If you deconcentrate even the MPs, you may be very poor to prevent the deconcentration of the students! In short, we often blame you for the lack of teaching resources. We will abstain, you will understand, because we are against the use of mobile phones in schools, but we condemn the text for its inability to achieve the desired goals. In addition, it does not sufficiently address the problem. I will conclude by referring to a very concrete case. If a student persists, as teenagers know how to keep his cell phone, what will it take? Do you want to punish him for teaching or go get the police? This is a real difficulty in this bill. Eyes in the eye, who is able here to say that in such cases, you will have to drag a 13-year-old to court or call the police station? You know very well that this is not what will happen. The student will be punished, as I wish, but within the institution itself, as it should be: an insolence with regard to the pedagogical rules requires a pedagogical response. I guess we're not going to get the police involved, which has more to do than convince a ten- to fourteen-year-old to put his cell phone away. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is therefore human and educational means, a teacher's answer in a word, that must be brought. Do not make it appear that a law will solve a problem against which the rules of procedure have remained ineffective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u31	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u32	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a crisis, and shortly after the adoption of a bill which considerably restricts the rights of foreigners and confirms the confinement of children in detention centres, it appears to me, if you allow me to comment, that it is a floor on a text which, in reality, will not change anything to a fundamental problem. First of all, one can only underline the paradox that affects the majority: as an ultra-liberal, you advocate less interventionism by the state in all fields of society, but this seems to be more important for businesses than for schools. Indeed, you are legislating – others have said so – on a measure that falls within the internal regulations of schools and colleges. Moreover, many have pointed out that this measure already exists in the law, but also in the laws governing institutions. What, then, is the usefulness of a law that merely recalls what the regulations of schools already provide? The text merely reverses the wording of the ban: previously, the rules of procedure said where the mobile phone was prohibited; From now on, he must provide where he is authorized. It doesn't change anything. The text therefore has little scope. It does not offer new tools to school principals and directors and reflects practices that are already common in institutions. The choice to intervene at the legislative level suggests that there would be gaps in the regulations of the institutions; However, we should not give the impression that we do not trust the teaching teams, even though the law does not give them any additional means to work on the development of useful teaching tools. The text simply corresponds to a campaign promise. This is a shame, because the teaching world expects tools, means and training. Above all, the proper use of the mobile phone is a subject that deserves our full attention. But including its prohibition in the law without any additional measures is not the solution and it is a bit – as the FCPE, the Federation of Parents' Councils of Pupils points out – to leave the care of families alone to accompany children and, above all, adolescents in the use of digital tools. However, even if generational breakdowns are less than before, it must be admitted that some parents are, to say the least, disadvantaged in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u34	[[Several Members of the LaREM Group raise their hands to show that they are empty]] We therefore consider it inappropriate to reserve a whole part of the training of future adults to families, especially since it is not only a problem of adolescents, but a subject of society. Let us look at ourselves right now in the Chamber! Moreover, I will not blame you, ladies and gentlemen: I am doing the same. Thus, many topics could have been addressed by the bill: classification of video games, restriction of access to pornographic content – another real subject of society –, cyber-harassment, drifts from the use of social networks. However, we had worked on the text by tabling an amendment to replace what was then the single article of the bill with annual training in the proper use of digital tools and the prevention of cyber-harassment in schools, colleges and high schools. This proposal had an educational purpose: it was not just a matter of repressive measures. It was a call for discussion. If the issues of exposure to screens and the protection of children and adolescents in this regard are – for us as for you – central, they require a broader and more comprehensive reflection. The text proposed to us does not have this ambition and ultimately refers to the private sphere of care for victims or potential victims, when there is a need for a full investment by the public authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am not going to tell you that we are neither for nor against, quite the contrary, but we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u35	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u36	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, Mrs Cathy, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, tabled by our group, The Republic on the move, aims to frame the use of mobile phones in schools, colleges and high schools, with an exception for teaching purposes. This is a campaign promise of our President of the Republic that we are proud to be able to honour and implement as soon as next year. I am pleased that our majority is behind a bill that protects our children and enables them to flourish better. We are also proud to defend the first bill from our majority that is passed by Parliament with a broad consensus. Finally, we are extremely pleased that the National Assembly and the Senate have reached an agreement on a joint joint committee. This demonstrates our common will to provide rigorous, constructive work and, I would like to stress, respectful of everyone's ideas when it comes to the general interest, particularly that of our very young citizens. This work of co-construction has enabled our assemblies to introduce a real right to disconnection during school time, in order to encourage exchanges between pupils and thus strengthen a social bond that has been left to abandonment for too long. First, the bill should not be reduced to a groundless prohibition – "unnecessary," according to some. On the contrary, it must resonate in the minds of all as an indispensable step in the construction of the school of the twenty-first century – for, as you know, our children are now confronted with important societal phenomena, with perverse effects that we must preserve. I am primarily concerned with public health problems, which we can no longer ignore, including sleep disorders and concentration in the classroom. In this respect, the policy of ostrich has lasted too long and it is our duty to put an end to it in our schools. Secondly, I am thinking of educational and school life issues. The circulation of pornographic images and cyber-harassment are scourges that we must fight without respite. Although digital has many virtues, I really want to stress that its irresponsible use can lead to irreversible trauma in some of our children. I will keep repeating this: it is our duty to prevent these actions by intelligently guiding the use of digital tools. Yes, we think that we need to frame ourselves in order to be more accountable. It was therefore necessary to propose a legislative text guaranteeing these promises. Secondly, school is the place of identity and social construction. It must also be – I insist – the institution that enables children to become responsible through the mastery of fundamentals, including respect for others. This mastery is at the centre of your concerns, Minister. Therefore, the proposed law tends to reinforce various measures that you have already used. It should thus be seen as a complement to them in order to make them as effective and effective as possible. In conclusion, we are all driven by two distinct wills: to create a calmed school climate, on the one hand; introduce a new way of understanding digital reporting, on the other hand. The majority chose a systemic approach to provide a comprehensive response to these questions. Thus, the need to make students aware of the use of digital technology and to deepen its teaching is at the centre of the information mission on school in the digital society that we are leading with the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Bruno Studer. In particular, we address the training of young people for the responsible use of digital information, reflecting, among other things, on the best solutions to fight fake news. Planned for next autumn, its conclusions aim to outline the contours of appropriate support for teaching teams, teachers, parents, but also and especially for students, who often find themselves deprived of the media and digital tools. These recommendations will have to be the subject of a new law, which is intended to complement it. I repeat once again my pride in defending this bill, my pride in building it with all of you, MPs, but also with senators. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] For all these reasons, we will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u37	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u38	Madam President, Minister, Chairman of the Joint Joint Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I was reading this morning in the Alsatian regional daily press, under the title "Education": "Members are now considering the bill that governs the use of mobile phones in schools, which are already banned in kindergarten, primary school and college. The new text confirms these points, but leaves each establishment free to lay down its own rules for the rest, through its rules of procedure. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u39	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u40	That's all for it! Why is it that the majority hastened to add this bill to an over-burdened parliamentary agenda suddenly last April? The text was not well prepared, since the "Proposal for a law, No. 941, on the prohibition of the use of mobile phones in schools and colleges" was moved to a "Proposal for a law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u41	Should we make a new law for that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u42	[[Smile]] It was "the first floor of a rocket," the rapporteur told us in committee; a rocket destined for the galaxy "National Education" – unless it comes from Jupiter by lightning or thunder. Within the Republicans Group, we have consistently stated that the law of 12 July 2010, defended by the UMP group at the time, was sufficient pending a real law on digital at school, announced by the Government. I recall that the fact-finding mission set up last January and led by President Studer is still under way; It would have been very useful to have had its conclusions and recommendations before the adoption of Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee. Article 1 rewrites article L. 511-5 of the Education Code with substantial amendments. The use of telephones for educational purposes is permitted, without the question of its relevance being asked. No response was provided to questions related to safety, health and addiction. Rather than saying that establishments will specify in their rules of procedure where the use of telephones is prohibited, it is indicated that they will now have to mention those where it is authorized; I don't think this is a revolution that will upset the lives of educational teams. Senators adopted the text after amending it, including the reference to teaching practices in the rules of procedure of the institutions. In addition, they have extended to high school the possibility of supervising the use of mobile phones – a measure probably difficult to apply. The provisions on the confiscation of mobile phones had been rewritten and unnecessary additions, such as digital citizenship, had been removed, unfortunately without success. Where the Senate had made the text a minimum of consistency, the CMP has indeed returned – alas – to the previous version by restoring a talkable and useless text. In order to give some consistency to the bill, the majority group amended Article L. 312-9 of the Education Code by adding broad principles such as "responsible use of digital tools and resources", "education of the rights and duties related to the use of the Internet" and "protection of privacy", up to "development of the critical mind and the learning of digital citizenship" – a vague notion whose legal basis remains to be clarified. The Joint Joint Committee was concluded, and the text was finally adopted without great enthusiasm, with the two Republicans abstaining in the vote. The bill says too much or not enough. It clearly encroaches on the scope of the future law on the digital school: following the amendment to Article L. 401-1 of the Education Code, the latter, which refers to school or school projects, experiments, interdisciplinarity, educational organisation and cooperation, and even twinning, now also mentions "the use of digital tools and resources". We are far from the original purpose of the bill, which was to ban mobile phones at school. And, for the digital school, we'll wait. Moreover, in many institutions, the rules of procedure already specified, long before the proposed law existed, the prohibition of mobile phones and the manner in which penalties were imposed in cases where the prohibition was not respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u43	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u44	Similarly, there are many Internet usage charters signed by parents and students. These are good practices that could be disseminated, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But it was necessary to translate into law an election promise of candidate Macron. It's done: you will be able to carry out a beautiful communication operation at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u45	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u46	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on the website of a teaching union on the mobile phone, we read the following warning about the mobile phone: "Since the beginning of the year, incidents have multiplied with mobile phones. A little further on, we read: "Confusing a mobile phone is not an annoyance. "This can have many legal consequences that a teacher cannot assume on his or her own initiative" before postponing the responsibility to the head of the institution. This could be sufficient to demonstrate that the proposal for a law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools, which we have completed, was necessary. We are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement that has been able to preserve the substance of this proposal, while at the same time providing relevant elements. I know I will repeat arguments that others have already made, but it is important that each group clearly express what it supports in this text: it is the law of the kind. The text has a specific scope: it allows for better protection of educational staff and for the inclusion in the law of practices which at the time were left to the discretion of primary and secondary schools. It has three objectives: a school education objective, a risk prevention objective related to new information and communication technologies, and a citizenship training objective. As we know, the telephone disrupts memory, thinking abilities, cognitive development and student concentration. This is why the text has an educational scope, the aim of which is to train new technologies, by educating children on the use of the Internet and online communication services. The challenge is to provide students with real learning in this field, to enable them to use these tools with discernment and to be aware of the impact they may have on their behaviour. The text goes in the direction of a more reasoned use of the mobile phone, by putting it at a distance, by its prohibition within the school, and by re-establishing order in the pedagogical learning. It is only gradually that the screen should be used, in order to avoid dropping out of school. In addition, the supervision of mobile phone use will help to foster cohesion within classes, avoiding sanctions, telephone spillovers and privacy issues. In addition, the aim of the text is to prevent medical-social and school drop-out risks. We know that a significant use of the mobile phone poses many problems. This includes public health, with an increase in overweight among young people. Myopia also affects children more. The impact is also very negative on sleep, which severely affects their physiological development. The telephone, although the communication tool par excellence, is paradoxically a vector of isolation harmful to the integration of students into their class. This is an aggravating factor leading to possible school failure. It is our responsibility as adults to remedy this. Finally, the text aims to train the citizens of tomorrow and to cultivate the critical spirit in them. While they were faced with ethical and privacy issues, as in the case of the unaccepted dissemination of information by all on the Internet, action was needed. The awakening to digital citizenship will enable students to become reasoned and reasonable citizens, instilling in them the values of respect, lucidity and vigilance. This is about forming conscious citizens who are able to understand the world around them, acting after reflection, without falling into extremes – principles that our Republic promotes. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The bill helps to build a school that responds to the problems posed by the use of information and communication technologies, both in legal terms and in the service of our Republic's values. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u47	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u48	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Joint Joint Committee, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking at the proposal for a law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools, in its version resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee. The drafting of section 1, which is the core of the bill, was substantially amended and enriched during its consideration in the Assembly and the Senate. Its scope had been usefully specified in the Committee on Cultural Affairs by the rapporteur, in order to exclude from its scope persons with a disability or a disabling health disorder for whom the use of such an object is an absolute necessity. We also proposed during the public discussion that the prohibition of the use of mobile phones and other connected objects should be linked to the possibility of their confiscation, in order to guarantee the effectiveness of this measure. While our drafting proposal has not been adopted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, we welcome the inclusion of her principle in the law. It will make it possible to secure the actions of school principals and avoid unnecessary conflicts, in a context where almost 40% of incidents are now related to the use of mobile phones in schools. We welcome the addition by the Senate of a new provision in section 1 that gives high schools the opportunity to generalize the ban on the use of mobile phones, which was impossible today. Even if the main purpose of the bill was to secure the legal regime applicable to mobile phones in primary and secondary schools, it would have been a pity not to complete the scheme to register the high school. Similarly, the reference to the rules of procedure of establishments for the confiscation and return of mobile phones is a guarantee of flexibility and confidence in the capacity of establishments to determine the most appropriate framework themselves. As it stands, we therefore find the new wording of Article 1e r to be fully satisfactory. We had expressed reservations about the opportunity to introduce digital tools too massively in schools, because we are convinced of the importance of returning to the fundamentals of reading and writing, of developing the capacity for concentration, of encouraging our children's attention and reflection. We will have the opportunity to discuss these issues again in the forthcoming debates on the use of digital in schools, after the report of the information mission on the school in the digital society will be issued next autumn. We'll take our share. However, we understand and share the objective of learning about the rational use of digital technology, in order to form a critical mindset in the face of the media and fake news, to discover digital civic education, to better deal with hate speech on the Internet or online harassment, but also to increase awareness of the harmful health effects of overconsumption of screens. It is commendable that the school is dealing with this issue, in close contact with families, as much as the dependence on screens is of interest to society as a whole and not just our children. In this sense, the new provisions laid down in Articles 2 and 3 are in the right direction. We agree with them, although their addition does not seem decisive and their normative scope is weak. We have every confidence in the faculty, whose dedication and professionalism I have already had the opportunity to praise in this House to carry out these missions of transmitting knowledge and know-how, without bias or dogmatism. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] At first reading, our group had voted in favour of this text which is modest in scope, but which has the merit of clarifying the existing legal regime concerning the prohibition of mobile phones in schools, thereby securing the action of school principals wishing to include such a measure in their rules of procedure. We will also vote in favour of the text resulting from the work of the CMP, which was enriched and clarified in the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u49	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u50	I cannot leave unanswered some of the comments I have just heard. First of all, I would like to thank the speakers who supported the bill. They said everything there was to say about it. As for the others, I would like to reaffirm several truths. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups]] I heard that the proposal would be of no use, because its subject matter would be minor. But you also say that it is extremely important. We have to choose between these arguments. Either the subject of the phone is important in our society or it isn't, but you can't say both at once. Another sin, according to you: the text comes in response to a presidential commitment. I admit it. It is very serious to fulfil an electoral promise and to do what has been said. An additional element bothers you: the law was amended during its examination by both chambers. This is very serious: bicameralism exists in France; attention is paid to the arguments; the texts are enriched. I'm sorry about that, too. Your arguments were decisively very paradoxal, since, to listen to you, the text is useless, but harms the freedom of the institutions. Are there any or no facilities that continue to authorize the mobile phone? Is the bill useful for the prohibition? The answer is: yes. Today, colleges do not prohibit mobile phones. Thanks to this law, all colleges in France, in addition to primary schools, will prohibit it. The concrete contribution is obvious. To pretend to deny it is, in a way, to deny reality. Again, choose between your arguments: either the text is against the freedom of the different actors or it is useless, but you cannot say one thing and its opposite. You also said that the text did not solve all the problems. Of course. We never claimed he was more than he is. Be aware that your desire to solve many of the problems in the school system will be met, since next year, after the conclusions of your current work on digital technology have been drawn, a bill will be presented to you, particularly as a result of compulsory schooling from the age of three. If you want me to recognize that this law does not solve all the problems of the school, I will gladly do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Last sin of the text, according to you: its symbolic scope. I also thank you for this reproach. Indeed, it has a symbolic significance for a phenomenon of society – French, of course, but also global – on which you have all agreed that we should ask ourselves questions. In addition to a concrete scope, the text has a symbolic scope, and that is so much better.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u51	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u52	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u53	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u54	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate on the harmonization of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities (No. 1083, 1187).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u55	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u56	Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after the Senate, which put it on its agenda and adopted on June 13, your Assembly has before it the proposal for a law on the harmonization of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities. The Government considered this legislative initiative particularly welcome and I am pleased that it can be discussed before the end of the special session. I will not dwell on the origin of the various legislative provisions adopted by Parliament since 2016, which have progressively extended the legal framework allowing members of different security forces to register their interventions by means of a mobile camera: first, the agents of the internal security services of SNCF and RATP, within the framework of the law of 22 March 2016 on the safety of collective passenger transport; then members of the internal security forces and municipal police officers, with the law of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime and terrorism. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how committed the Government is to the use by the security forces of such equipment, which has real operational advantages and which is a factor in appeasement of possible tensions between the representatives of the security forces and the population. Thus, as part of the daily security police launched last February, we decided to multiply by four the number of pediment cameras within the police and the national gendarmerie in order to reach 10,000 cameras by 2019. We consider that, in the long run, when this equipment is widely distributed, triggering its camera in the event of an incident or situation likely to degenerate must become a reflex for every police officer or gendarmerie on the ground. Moreover, there is no doubt that the use of this equipment seems to be more effective in appeasement of relations between law enforcement agencies and the population than the issuance of a receipt in the event of identity checks. In line with the guidelines adopted under the previous legislature, the Government therefore intends to maintain the widest possible use of mobile cameras within a public security framework, and is working to deploy them. Originally, the main purpose of the bill introduced by Senator Jean-Pierre Decool and several of his colleagues was to launch, as planned in 2016 for municipal police officers, an experiment on the use of mobile cameras by firefighters. In the Senate, the Government has indicated that it understands the intention of such a proposal, formulated after several serious attacks against firefighters in the course of their relief missions. The Ministry of the Interior strongly condemned these attacks; It is with the utmost firmness that such acts must be repressed, and it is with the same firmness that we are working to ensure that the intervention of firefighters can be carried out in optimal security conditions, in particular by providing that they are accompanied by the forces of law and order if necessary. However, is the possibility for firefighters to register their interventions a means of securing them? The Government is not convinced of this. On the other hand, the operational situations in which firefighters are engaged may raise questions about respect for privacy – to the extent that they are forced into homes without a judicial warrant – and above all about medical secrecy. However, the amendments introduced by the Senate Law Committee have answered these questions, in particular by providing that registration cannot be triggered in cases where it is likely to infringe medical confidentiality. In these circumstances, in the case of a three-year experimental scheme, the Government has relied on the wisdom of parliamentarians in this regard. As in the Senate, however, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this measure will not constitute the alpha and the omega to ensure the safety of firefighters. The Senate has also included in the text of the bill an additional section which aims to perpetuate the experimentation allowing the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers. Indeed, the registration of their interventions was made possible by Article 114 of the Act of 3 June 2016, on an experimental basis for a period of two years. This provision had been introduced on the proposal of several Members, including your colleague Florent Boudié. The experiment, which was applicable on the date of publication of the law, however, could not start immediately because its implementation was conditional on the adoption of a decree which required consultation of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – the CNIL – for obvious reasons that everyone understands. This decree was issued at the end of December 2016, but the issuing of authorisations and the acquisition of equipment by the municipalities only allowed the experimentation to start in 2017. It is therefore difficult, given the texts debated since the beginning of the new legislature in July 2017, to decide on the opportunity to persevere or abandon an experiment that had just begun. In accordance with the law, the Government provided Parliament with an assessment of the experiment. Let me remind you of the main information: authorisations have been granted to 391 municipalities, resulting in the use of 2325 mobile cameras – each municipality with such authorisation has an average of six mobile cameras. The acquisition of mobile cameras by the municipalities was the subject of financial support from the State, through the interministerial fund for the prevention of crime, amounting to 171000 euros in 2017: 116 communes benefited from it for the purchase of 893 cameras. The reports received from the municipalities involved in the experiment stress in particular the deterrent nature of the wearing of cameras by the agents. There is unanimous agreement on the recognition of the accountability of filmed persons and greater respect for municipal police officers. The reports state that the wearing of an individual camera is reassuring to the agents and helps to reduce the aggressiveness of individuals – and hence the offence of offending agents. Some municipalities point out, for example, that the wearing of cameras has allowed situations that could have degenerated and led to outrages against municipal police officers. A large number of municipalities also state that their municipal police officers have not had the opportunity to register. The mobile cameras also allowed municipal police officers to gather evidence during some of the interventions. On several occasions, extractions have been used in court proceedings; Some have identified offenders. Finally, several municipalities have stressed the educational usefulness of the system: municipal police officers can thus train themselves in gestures and techniques of intervention and improve their practices by viewing the recordings made during interventions. I therefore believe that we can widely agree that a positive assessment can be made of the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers, which explains the numerous requests for the sustainability of the device received by the Ministry of the Interior. The Government therefore very favourably welcomed this additional provision in the proposed law. Finally, the bill sets out the regime for the use of mobile cameras by prison officials. The Government is, of course, in principle in favour of such a mechanism. This regime, similar to that currently enjoyed by police and gendarmes, was initially limited to officials responsible for judicial extraction or administrative transfers; It has been expanded by the Senate to include all surveillance personnel responsible for "missions presenting, because of their nature or the level of danger of the detained persons concerned, a particular risk of incident or escape". I would point out that the mechanism decided by the Senate is experimental in nature, while the bill created a permanent regime. The Government fully supports the text of this bill. I would like to thank your Committee on the Law, and in particular your rapporteur, Mrs Thourot, for their work. In particular, I thank you for agreeing to pass the bill without amendment, which will enable a legal basis to be re-established as soon as possible so that municipal police officers will be able to register their interventions. I am well aware that the provisions of Article 2 are perfectable, but I have no doubt that, after the start of the experiments, corrective measures can be taken as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass this bill in the same language as the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u57	Mrs Alice Thourot, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering the proposal for a law on the harmonisation of mobile cameras by public security authorities. This Senate bill has three sections. Articles 1 and 2 are intended to allow, on an experimental basis, the use of mobile cameras by firefighters and prison officials. The aim of Article 2a is to perpetuate the scheme already experienced for almost two years by municipal police officers, taking into account the very positive results of this experiment, which ended in June 2018. The scheme allows targeted public officials to film their interventions in the context of their missions, in a strictly supervised manner and with due respect for public freedoms. As a reminder, the use of the mobile camera has already been authorised for the national police and for the gendarmerie by the law of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing and improving the efficiency and guarantees of the criminal procedure. The same law also authorized the testing of the device for municipal police officers. The bill incorporates and adapts the legislative framework for the use of mobile cameras for national police officers and gendarmes, as set out in article L. 241-1 of the Internal Security Code. The agents covered by this text are waiting for these changes: this is a real demand from them. On the ground, they are increasingly confronted with physical and verbal violence. These are the municipal police officers first. They are then officers of the prison administration, who are frequently victims of aggression, the prison environment being particularly violent. Finally, they are the firefighters, who unfortunately are increasingly victims of attacks and violence of all kinds during their interventions – some of them go so far as to make a look out for them as they carry out their mission of assistance to people in distress. There has been a 21% increase in the number of firefighter assaults in one year. Here I would like to pay tribute to them all and to thank them for their dedication and for their work. The use of the mobile camera has several objectives. It can be used for educational purposes, allowing feedback of experiences. It can be used to identify offences, and to provide evidence in the event of litigation or a challenge to the conditions of intervention. Above all, it has demonstrated on the ground its ability to moderate relations between the parties: it appeases exchanges, and its ostensible trigger calls for calm and self-control. In practice, several mechanisms are in place to ensure the proportionality of the scheme and respect for privacy. I would point out that CNIL has validated the framework for the use of mobile cameras as provided for in the proposed legislation. The manner of wearing the camera is precisely defined: it must be carried in an apparent manner and a specific visual signal must indicate when the camera records; In addition, filmed persons must be informed of the recording, unless the circumstances prohibit it. More specifically, in order to ensure that medical confidentiality is respected, the use of the camera by firefighters in medical procedures is explicitly excluded. The rules on access to and retention of personal data are also regulated: personnel to whom individual cameras are provided cannot have direct access to the audiovisual recordings they make. In addition, these records are deleted after six months, except in cases where they are used in judicial, administrative or disciplinary proceedings. By ensuring the proportionality of the arrangements, this balanced text will enable public security authorities to have an additional tool to carry out their tasks, while ensuring that citizens will be able to respond properly. I would add that all the actors who have been interviewed who have expressed their interest in this text, in particular municipal police officers and local elected officials, are satisfied with its current wording. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At the end of its consideration in committee, we passed this bill without amendment. Indeed, a broad consensus – which I would like to thank the members of the committee – emerged in our debates so that this necessary law can be implemented as soon as possible. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that you vote in conformity, so that the bill can be adopted definitively and implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u59	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u60	Madam President, the rapporteur, the minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have only been interested in this text late in the day, because of the topicality which has been very busy in recent times. I regret that I was unable to attend its examination in the Law Committee: at the same time I was attending a meeting of my parliamentary group. However, I looked at the text very closely, since the use of pediment cameras – or mobile cameras – is an important issue for national police officers, gendarmes and municipal police officers. To begin with, I am surprised at the somewhat enigmatic nature of the explanatory memorandum to the Senate bill. The text was indeed tabled before the Ministry of the Interior's report on the use of pedonic cameras was published. I understand that this report was subsequently published and that it presents a very favourable view of the use of these devices. Nor has it escaped me that the fact that this bill is a bill makes it possible to dispense with impact assessment: on this subject, however, it would have been useful, particularly with regard to the extension of the device to firefighters and prison staff. I have noted the reservations that you have expressed, Madam Minister, with regard to firefighters. I myself, spontaneously, wondered about the usefulness of equipping them with cameras worn on the torso, such as police officers, in order to film their interventions. It can be seen that the people who attack firefighters are not generally those for whom they intervene: these various facts occur when firefighters intervene in neighbourhoods where there is tension vis-à-vis State officials in general. In these circumstances, it may be more appropriate to place the camera on the vehicles than on the firefighters themselves. I'll come back. More and more people are shooting the interventions of police officers and state officials in general. First, this led the national police and the national gendarmerie to equip their officials with cameras: the aim was to compensate for the imbalance vis-à-vis the people who shoot them, whether during demonstrations or during an arrest in a difficult neighbourhood. They even felt somewhat disarmed, having no evidence filmed to bring before the magistrate when their intervention was contested. [[Smile]] A circular issued by the Ministry of the Interior in 2008 recalled that citizens have the right to film police officers in intervention. It doesn't seem obvious to everyone: I myself, during demonstrations, experienced a little tense moments when police officers asked citizens to stop filming, putting their hands on the lens or threatening to destroy the device. It has happened that police officers have attacked people filming an arrest: the general inspection of the national police – IGPN – is currently investigating an episode, which occurred in Lille, during which the police threw a young person's phone over the railing overlooking the device. I don't think he managed to get it back. So it's a matter of tension. One might even consider that the video is not completely foreign to the Benalla case,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u62	...who's been taking care of us in the last few days. Moreover, this case also leads to questions as long as the text provides that the agent does not have access to the recording and that it will be destroyed after six months: it seems to me that a video in this case circulated while it should not have been – but I assume that justice will light on it. In any case, setting rules for the use of videos does not prevent some from taking some freedoms with them. One might even say that if all police officers on site had been equipped with cameras, there would have been more images and perspectives of the situation, and much more reliable contextual elements. All of this leads me to the conclusion that the deployment of video surveillance cameras, initially fixed and now mobile, is part of a general movement, recalled in their explanatory statement by senators. They were initially deployed on the basis of evidence: it will be clearer if a camera is placed as it will allow people to be identified, and even caught in flagrante delicto if there is an agent permanently behind the screens, which will reduce the level of delinquency through these new means of surveillance and control. That is the objective of this security idea. A book by sociologist Laurent Mucchielli, devoted to video surveillance, has just been published; He certainly did not escape the vigilance of the law commissioners and my colleagues in general. This book provides, in support of methodology and figures, at the end of an analysis, both French and international, proof that most of the video surveillance put in place is unnecessary in view of the objectives pursued, even though there is a great deal of resources and energy devoted to it. A first thing is for sure: there is nothing crueler than forcing people to watch 24 hours a day from a command post screens retransmitting video surveillance camera images. A second thing is equally certain: there is nothing more useless since the rate of flagrant offences detected is extremely low in terms of the number of hours viewed, and even the rate of ex post-elucidation. The author concludes that video surveillance is only useful in specific cases, within a defined framework – especially not with a permanently mobilized agent, who would be much more effective on the ground than in front of the screens. In other words, it is necessary to set up cameras whose recording is consulted a posteriori, especially on the escape axes: these are the most useful cameras in case of robbery or burglary because they allow otherwise to see the registration plates, in any case to identify the type of vehicle and the direction it has taken, and thus to advance in its investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u63	It's not just that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u64	Beyond these cases, the utility is marginal in terms of the cost of the system. I am not going to teach you, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, about public spending and limited budgets, as you are doing on an ongoing basis, but you should still tell yourself, knowing that the ratio of cost to benefits is as bad: "Yes, it is true, we cannot continue to put video surveillance installations everywhere, to place cameras in every direction. It is about the good use of public money in terms of the objectives that our group shares, namely to reduce crime and the level of violence in our society. Furthermore, I have seen that the report of our committee refers to the interministerial fund for the prevention of crime, but since it became an interministerial fund for the prevention of crime and radicalisation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u66	... it is well known that a significant part of his means was tilted towards the second, to the detriment of the first. In this regard, the minister would have to question the fact that most of the CIPDR's mission officers – the interdepartmental committee on crime prevention and radicalization – focus on the prevention of radicalization, with only four still focusing on crime prevention, and while there is no new roadmap on crime prevention, the previous one having ended in 2017. I would add that, among the few remaining items devoted to crime prevention, the first item of expenditure is intended to help municipalities install video surveillance cameras. There is little left to carry out another form of prevention, such as the actions of street educators, which are less and less numerous, while their presence on the ground is a real relay for police officers, thus helping to lower the level of tension, solve investigations and reduce delinquency. All these means are constantly decreasing. I see it as an effect of communicating vases. That's why I'm alerting you about the video surveillance, in this case on the pedestrian cameras. If we believe that crime prevention is simply about putting cameras, fixed or mobile, I think we're a little below the subject, the issues and the objectives. I say it because it is important to me that the police and the police, the gendarmes, all those dealing with security issues, can do their work in the best possible conditions. We have heard of a report by the Ministry of the Interior from the uphills it has collected, of which I would like to have a copy. In any event, there are no or almost no scientific analyses on the subject that would enable a number of parameters to be objected to. All the studies reported by the Ministry of the Interior are based on a feeling. I do not say that they are to be swept with a back of hand, but it is only a feeling: "we have the feeling" that it is useful, that it lowers the level of tension, that it allows the policeman to be reassured in the performance of his duties – but we have no scientific data. I have contacted several researchers, who have referred me to the few studies they have at their disposal. A 2016 study by Barak Ariel compares the city of Denver – the United States is the country where the system has been in place for the longest time, bringing the necessary setback – between the districts that have deployed the Pedestrian cameras and the others, and notes a 35 per cent decrease in the number of complaints of police violence – this is the positive aspect – but a 14 per cent increase in the number of complaints of misconduct. Let's note that people in the districts with these cameras have 18% less chance of being arrested, but is that really a good thing? Is it self-censorship, because the police officer is afraid to arrest the person because he knows that it is filmed and that there could be unfortunate follow-ups, even if the facts are established, or is it a decrease in the level of tension and therefore the likelihood of arrest? The researcher explains that, overall, the pedestrian camera pushes the police officer to prudence. In the same year, he conducted another study, this time with several other researchers and in conjunction with the police, showing that if the use of force by the police does not decrease, there is an increase in attacks on agents carrying a telegraph. In 2017, two Francophone researchers, Meyer and Tanner, indicated that the respondents' comments tended to highlight increased mistrust between the two parties, at least in the perception of police officers. On several occasions, they evoke their discomfort in contact with the citizen when the scene takes place under the camera of a third party. In March 2018, Patrik Manzoni and Dirk Bayer conducted an analysis in Zurich and, for them, there was no clear and scientifically valid argument against the use of pediment-cameras, which could be a favourable element for the proponents of this measure, but they also specified that neither did there really be any scientific argument in favour of their introduction. No partial study provided any concrete evidence suggesting that the process could promote the escalation of violence, but neither could it have a soothing effect. You're going to tell me: "It makes us a nice leg. Not only do we have no evidence in one direction or the other, but studies are even contradictory depending on the cities studied. The most recent, complementary to the one in Zurich, this time by Ian Adams and Sharon Mastracci, is a more comprehensive study, based on much larger data and which, unlike others, has been interested in the effects that the pedestrian camera could have on the agents themselves. It shows a higher risk of burn-out for agents using one. I'll give you this information as it stands. That is what led me to defend this motion for referral to committee. In fact, why get so excited, why would you want to extend the experiments of pediment-cameras to firefighters and in the prison administration, even though we do not have enough scientific hindsight? I am sending a message, Madam Minister: I ask that the continuation of the experiments already under way – the national police and the national gendarmerie, for which no new legislation is necessary – be the subject of the establishment of a scientific collective that can objectiveise what is happening with the pediment cameras. Our country still has the right tools to do this: I am thinking of the National Institute of Higher Studies in Security and Justice, CESDIP – the Centre for Sociological Research on Law and Criminal Institutions, one of the CNRS laboratories. I think if researchers are asked to do so by giving them access to the Department of the Interior data, they will be happy to work on it so that we can be sure that the stated objectives are being achieved. You have rightly mentioned, Madam Minister, the daily security police, whose aim is to bring the police closer to the population – even if it is rarely expressed in these terms by the Minister of the Interior. However, if one realizes, when reading the studies, that the installation of cameras on the agents certainly encourages them to be cautious, but also robots them in their way of discussing with citizens and dealing with them, this means that there is a risk of the police being removed from the population – what Meyer and Tanner say in their study. In fact, one might think that, in a soothing society, there would be no need to film for the police to intervene. It is well to be on the defensive that you want to equip yourself – and at all costs – with cameras to protect yourself and the institution. The deployment of these cameras should not be counterproductive in this regard. Now that is what I fear; That is why I ask that we take a little more time to better study the consequences of the process before extending its scope and continuing the experiment for municipal police officers. I also note that such a deployment may only move the problem: a new source of litigation would be created because of the contestation of the content of the images. You yourself said that all this had been very framed with the CNIL to avoid problems. Thus, the police officer must announce when he activates his camera – a light signal indicating it to the person filmed. This seems normal to everyone. However, these cameras are equipped with a buffer memory: they actually run continuously and the recording starts 30 seconds before the video is triggered. Therefore, there is already a small paradox, even though I understand why we want to take 30 seconds back: it is a matter of avoiding the policeman only triggering the camera when it suits him. One could imagine a situation in which a malicious police officer – fortunately, this is not the norm – would want to excite an individual on the street before controlling him and would only trigger his camera once he was warmed up, so that he could say, "You see, he was the one who attacked me. » Perhaps one element was not thought: why would the camera not film all day, continuously? She would start turning when the officer took up her position and started her tour and would stop at the end of the service. It would not have access to the images, but it would be possible to consult them in the event of a complaint, litigation or any problem. Why, indeed, stop in the middle of the ford? Honestly, I don't understand it. Moreover, this would make it possible to rebalance things: if a police officer did not set off his camera during an intervention that degenerated, it would be more complicated for him to defend himself against the complainant. These are the different elements that I wanted to submit to your sagacity, knowing that, in order to clarify things, we believe that the device is not incompatible with receipts. The latter, when it comes to identity checks, would allow our citizens to have a document attesting that they were checked four, five, or even six times on the same day. The camera, on the other hand, does not prove anything: even with the NEO phones – new operational equipment – if a check is recorded, we cannot determine how many times the person in question has been checked. Even though she had already been checked, the police officer would first conduct the check before he realized, thanks to his phone, that one of his colleagues had already done so before him. Therefore, it is not in this way that we are going to solve the problem. However, I bring to the credit of the pediment cameras the feedback they make possible: for the moment, the various studies show that, when the police structure seizes it to make it a positive management tool – and not a means of breaking sugar on the backs of police officers or reprimanding them – it allows us to change the practices of each other. This may be the only positive aspect, which is clearly validated by the various studies. Under these conditions, why extend the device to firefighters? As I said at the beginning of my intervention, it would be better to equip the vehicles with cameras. If we want to see who is peddling firefighters' vehicles, we won't be able to do this by equipping firefighters with mobile cameras. The same is true of assaults by police officers, which often consist of pebbles of their vans when they move around the neighbourhoods. As far as the municipal police are concerned, I also see, in the same way as in the case of video surveillance, the temptation to continue experimenting, so that, after four or five years of using cameras for this purpose, we no longer know very well why we would stop there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u67	Why, indeed, stop there?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u68	We no longer know very well why the device was launched, but we also do not see why we would put an end to it. This is how video surveillance has been deployed in general; This is how we try to deploy the video protection. At this point in our debate, while passing on the prison administration for which the same arguments are valid, I cannot fail to talk about the lobby of the security industry, which draws its pin from the game. The increase in security spending, particularly on video surveillance in general, and on cameras in particular, has been enormous for 15 years. It's a juicy fruit. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Seeing as legislation evolves, I should hurry to end my mandate as a parliamentarian to open a shop and sell cameras.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u69	You do what you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u70	In my opinion, it would be a better investment, built on a better business plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u71	You're free to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u72	However, it is the general interest that is at my heart, not the particular interest or profitability. In any case – as I say very seriously – we must keep this in mind: some industries have, in this way, sold methods to reduce delinquency. However, in recent years, crime has not declined: it has either increased or stagnated, but totally independent of the number of cameras that have been installed here or there. At best, such facilities have moved the problem. At worst, the cameras are vandalized, and there are ludicrous situations where police patrols, mobilized to monitor them, are themselves attacked – The rapporteur recalled this earlier – in the context of genuine watch-a-pens. Perhaps, rather than believing that cameras are going to solve everything, the means we have at our disposal – at the Ministry of the Interior and within the State in general – would be better used to develop real prevention policies. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to show some wisdom in the matter by voting on this motion for referral back to committee, so that we can discuss this issue much more quietly – studies in support, perhaps by hearing some more researchers, so that our eyes are more enlightened and rational about the situation – in September.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u73	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u74	[[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Dear colleague, I will answer you very quickly. First of all, your request does not lack salt, since you were not present in committee during the examination of this bill. So I have a question for you: if the text is referred back to committee, will you be here this time to discuss it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u75	Of course! In fact, in the commission of laws, I am not the least diligent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u76	All right. On the substance, then, to ideology and theory, I will oppose you, dear colleague, the principle of reality: on the ground, the agents – firefighters, prison officers or municipal police officers – ask to be able to use mobile cameras.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u77	Those of SNCF too, but you don't do so much for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u78	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So we have to listen to them: that's the choice we made in trying to get this bill passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u79	You'll even make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u80	Don't interrupt the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u81	Dear colleague, let me finish. You mentioned the appeasement that could result, even when they are turned off, from wearing these mobile cameras, which I hear. That said, it is impossible to prove to you the non-commission of offences because of the wearing of these cameras by the agents concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u82	Yes, I do! Some scientists are working on the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u83	One last point on the bottom, about which, once again, you mix everything – I'm talking about video surveillance and mobile cameras. These are two completely different things. However, I would point out that the bill that we are studying today and the device that we are interested in is not filming all the time. On the other hand – we will, of course, be able to discuss it on many occasions when we consider the amendments that are going to be submitted to us – the principle is that the agents carrying the cameras do not have the right to watch the images, and there is no live transmission of them, neither to a vehicle nor to a processing centre. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is therefore totally different from the video surveillance and cameras that you can find, for example, in a city centre and that allow – again, we do not agree – when offences are committed, to collect evidence and find the perpetrators, especially in cases of rape. I can tell you that for having attended an arrest in a video surveillance centre. So I will not let you say, dear colleague, that video surveillance is of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u84	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mr Philippe Latomb, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u85	The rapporteur said this very well: indeed, on the form, it is quite surprising not to be present in committee and to ask for referral back to committee. If each Commissioner not present in committee tabled a motion to refer, we would not stop considering such motions. I therefore do not understand such an approach. On the bottom, dear colleague, you mixed everything for twenty-three minutes. However, you have sometimes defended motions in a much more structured way. You've spent your time mixing the video surveillance, the pedestrian cameras and the receipts. Let's say you've occupied twenty-three minutes of speaking time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u86	He has the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u87	It's democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u88	...what we cannot accept. Of course, but as far as the substance of the case is concerned, his motion did not bring anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u89	If you don't see the link between video surveillance and the pediment cameras, you have to go back to school, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u90	Of course, we are against this motion to refer it back to committee. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Furthermore, my colleague, you could very well have mentioned in committee all the studies you have mentioned. It was the place and the time to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u91	Mr President, I would remind you that you must address the whole of the national representation, and not just the author of the motion. Mr Frédéric Reiss, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u92	If we have listened well to our colleague Ugo Bernalicis defending the motion for referral to committee, we will not support it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Indeed, we do not share in substance a number of explanations he has provided and are rather in favour of a widespread deployment of mobile cameras for the benefit of certain security forces, including firefighters and other personnel mentioned earlier. We will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u93	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u94	Mr Paul Christophe, for the IDU Group, speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u95	As a matter of principle, as you know, our group does not support motions for referral to committee, especially since this is a bill that was first debated and adopted in the Senate and then debated in committee in the National Assembly: we therefore believe that it is now mature in order to be debated in the wonderful chamber of our House. Madam President, allow me, without addressing him alone, to greet our colleague who was able, for 23 minutes, to comment on a report he had not read and a proposal he had not had time to examine in committee – I therefore understand his need for the text to be referred back to committee. I would like to take this opportunity to enlighten our colleagues on our position on the bill. You will have noticed that the original text only concerned firefighters and prison guards and that the provisions relating to the municipal police were added a posteriori, when the experiment ended and when the famous report was published. I could have heard the arguments put forward if the text did not deal with an experiment which contributes precisely to the reflection and studies of sociologists and other experts interested in the subject, and which will not fail to deal with it. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, we are opposed to the notion of profitability: for my part, I prefer to say that aggression is always too much aggression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u96	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u97	Mr Alain David, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u98	I would just like to recall that the launch of this system was decided under the previous majority: it was, before its perpetration in 2016, on an experiment by the police and by the gendarmes. This included choosing between these cameras and the receipt issued, for example, after an identity check. While, as the studies show, this technique contributes to the pacification of exchanges, it has a deterrent effect. It may also, in the event of an altercation, provide relatively objective evidence, both for law enforcement or rescue personnel and for the public. I would also point out that, as soon as we open up a technical possibility, it must be framed, both in terms of its use and in terms of the exploitation of the data it produces. That is why I plead for a strict framework defining by whom and how these video images can be exploited, extracted, preserved and destroyed. We will therefore vote against the motion for referral to committee, although we understand some of the concerns that Mr Ugo Bernalicis has expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u100	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u101	As regards form, I would like to say to those who have allowed themselves to judge the quality of my colleague Ugo Bernalicis' speech that such comments do not belong here. If we were to give our opinion each time on the consistency of some of you's comments, you wouldn't be the most comfortable, nor would you be if we were to mention the presence in committee. The parliamentary work of our colleague Ugo Bernalicis is worth the work of many of you. He was unable to attend the entire committee meeting, after sitting there at 9:30 a.m., because, due to an intense week, he had to go to a group meeting. Excuse us for a little bit. It seems to me that none of you can afford to make up for what he said. We can then judge on the merits. What did our colleague Ugo Bernalicis tell us? Not, as I heard, that video surveillance is useless, because the subject is not there. On the other hand, at a time when there are often not enough police officers on the ground, there is a question as to the cost-effectiveness of such arrangements. It is useful for scientists to work on this issue and then tell us, upon arrival, whether they are really effective. In my constituency, in Seine-Saint-Denis, I do not have a full-service police station in Bagnolet, and the situation far removed from that of the Lilas creates a difficult situation: in the absence of personnel on the ground, the answers are often reduced to video surveillance devices. However, this situation is not far from our subject. What's this about? Why mobile cameras? Often because the relationship between the population and police personnel is difficult. Why do the firefighters tell us that they find it difficult to get to certain areas where they feel insecure? It is therefore all that needs to be worked on. Admittedly, ladies and gentlemen, the field work of scientists and academics, who often conclude that such devices are inefficient, given their cost, falls perfectly within the scope of our topic of the day. If some have had a good game, as is customary, of considering such work to be out of the question, it seemed to me that our colleague Ugo Bernalicis had made an interesting demonstration. You have understood well, as our vote just now will confirm, that it is not a question of opposing experimentation as far as we are concerned: we consider it to include, in relation to what has been happening for years, a side that is too repetitive, banal and not very original. Police personnel are being asked to work harder and harder – I'm not even talking about the fact that you have recently found yourself in difficulty, forced to overwhelm them by putting everything on their backs. But the only answers you bring to all these problems are fewer staff and more video surveillance. That is why we think it would be useful to take the time to reflect on what we want to do rather than to continue what is being done without trying to understand how we could achieve a peaceful relationship with the police again, by giving them the means to work, without turning the police into "robocops" that would activate their video surveillance camera.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u102	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is the subject of this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u104	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u105	I will not speak on the substance, because this is not the subject of a motion to refer it back to committee – I will do it later. Our group has a rather favourable a priori on this bill. Our point is therefore not to oppose the text. On the other hand, the motion for referral to committee raises a question which I do not think is negligible. [["Yes! » on the benches of the FI group]] I have read and worked on this text, going so far as to draft three amendments. Unfortunately, the review in committee was so quick that, when I arrived, the meeting was over. Moreover, the committee met on an unusual day and at an even more unusual hour, since it was the one which, in principle, is reserved for group meetings. I have tried to reconcile the two, but in order to go quickly, the majority has chosen to vote for the correct text, by not accepting any amendments. I find that a pity. While I am quite in favour of the text, I find that there are two or three subjects that would have deserved work in committee and an amendment to the text. That is why I believe that the quality of our work would be better if we referred the text back to committee. I will therefore vote in favour of the motion – not because of real convergence on the substance, but in principle, to say that we must not confuse speed with haste.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u106	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u107	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Michel Mis, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u108	The text we are considering today is the result of a thorough and largely consensual work carried out by our fellow senators, the rapporteur Alice Thourot, the members of the Law Committee and other parliamentarians who have been willing to work on it. During the hearings, our interlocutors had stressed the necessity of the arrangements it contains. This bill, adopted in the same terms by the Senate and the Law Committee of the National Assembly, is thus intended to meet the need both to maintain a mechanism that has proved its worth in our municipal police forces and to protect firefighters from attacks against them and prison officials, who face more than difficult working conditions. In addition, it regulates the use of these devices, which can only be deployed under strict conditions that respect public freedoms. Several provisions of the draft law are aimed in particular at ensuring the proportionality of the devices and the respect of privacy: they lay down the modalities for the wearing of the camera and its use, and also define the rules relating to access to and the retention of personal data. Far from the sterile polemics or the will to block which seems to animate some members of this assembly, our duty as legislator is to equip our public and civil security forces with the tools necessary to carry out, in good conditions, the protection, security and rescue tasks which are at the heart of their profession. These same tools will also ensure the protection of persons who may be abused. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I understand that some would have liked the debate to take place in committee; of which act, but the meeting of the committee was open to all and those who wished to participate were able to do so and to express themselves freely, just as they had been able to do at the preparatory hearings. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee and will call for a proper vote to ensure that the text is implemented as soon as possible, for the benefit of our security forces and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u109	I shall now put the motion for referral to committee to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u110	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u111	A point of order cannot be made during explanations of vote, Mr Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u112	I've been questioned four times!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u113	Mr Bernalicis, by regulation, it is not possible for you to now speak as a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u114	You're the president, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u115	The president must respect the rules, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u116	The rule is to preside!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u117	That's the example!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u118	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u120	Mr Bernalicis, in what capacity did you wish to make your point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u121	As a personal fact, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u122	Pursuant to Rule 58(4) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ugo Bernalicis asked for the floor on a personal matter. You have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u123	[[Smile]] Although I explained that I was unable to attend the committee meeting, it was not for this reason that I tabled a motion to refer the matter back to committee; I would have dropped it off even though I would have attended that meeting. It is only so that you do not use this argument against me – because I am beginning to know you – that I have made this clarification. But it was of no use to me, since you still pointed it out to me. That's too bad. However, I had worked on the subject: I read five research studies, three in English – which is not a big deal for me! So I don't feel like I'm totally beside the subject. If you could respect the point of view and the work of others, in this case mine, it would be urban on your part.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u124	We come to the general discussion. Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u125	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today to discuss the proposal for a law on the harmonisation of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities. This text, tabled by our honourable senators, has a twofold objective: to harmonize and align the legal regime applicable to the use of individual mobile cameras, while extending its scope in an experimental form. This bill responds to a request from local actors and territories. This is particularly the case of Haute-Savoie, where the commune of Gaillard, which is part of my electoral district, pursuant to the regulations of December 2016, acquired in November 2017 four individual cameras for the municipal police. After a few months of experimentation, the municipal team informed me of the positive effect of these cameras on the interventions of the municipal police, including a decrease in aggressiveness, assistance in the collection of evidence in the proceedings and a positive return of the population met. This very positive assessment is widely shared by the more than 300 other municipalities which have carried out such an experiment. The text will, therefore, make it possible to maintain this system, and also to extend the use of mobile cameras to firefighters, professionals and volunteers, as well as prison officers. This is a necessary measure, when you know the violence they are regularly subjected to. These men and women protect us every day; And yet, in recent years, attacks on them have multiplied. The figures of the National Observatoire de la délinquence et des résponses pénals show an increase of 17.6% in attacks against firefighters in 2016. Work stoppages have also increased by 36.5%, particularly in the Hauts-de-France, where firefighters face increasingly extreme situations on a daily basis. It is known that cameras are a useful tool for dealing with growing insecurity, increased malicious or aggressive acts and, more recently, the risk of terrorist attacks. What is also known is that public security authorities are often on the front lines and increasingly become the targets of these criminal acts. In Grenoble, for example, recently, three firefighters were caught by five individuals, including one armed with a knife, who wanted to steal from them de-prisonment equipment. The nature of this crime has therefore changed. Every day, twenty-one police officers and gendarmes are injured in the performance of their duties; It's an unacceptable, intolerable figure. This text is a first response to those who call for "cracking the cop" or "breaking the fireman." From now on, any words or gestures against security personnel will be filmed. If they are victims of violence, doubt will no longer be allowed. As much as the word can be called into question, the video image cannot be contested. The image has a force that the sentence does not have. The camera also acts as a deterrent. This camera contributes to the delicate balance between freedom and security. Unfortunately, however, this text will not be enough to solve all the problems. It's not a miracle solution. The reality is extremely difficult for our security forces. Today I wish to convey the warning cry of our police officers, our gendarmes, our firemen – and also of the prison staff. The internal security forces are undoubtedly going through a crisis that endangers the proper functioning of the public security service. The problem is institutional. In the face of this sad fact, several solutions can be considered. In particular, my colleague Eric Ciotti defended in committee the strengthening of sanctions against those who commit crimes or offences not only against law enforcement officials – police officers and gendarmes – but also against firefighters, professional or voluntary, and, more broadly, against all the custodians of public authority. Such a measure should be retained, for we are all witnessing a resurgence of aggressions and outrages against those who wear the uniform of the Republic. Our responsibility is to combat these drifts, which tend to become commonplace. In addition, a recent report by our colleagues, Senator François Grosdidier and Senator Michel Boutant, paints a very dark picture of the state of law enforcement. Launched after the wave of suicides that bereaved the security forces in the fall of 2017, the commission of inquiry describes known ills in the law enforcement forces, against the background of rising violence and feeling of downgrading. The malaise of our security forces is indeed real. Senators point out, in particular, the disrepair of the premises, which are unworthy of public reception, the ageing of the car fleet, the suicide rate in the police, which is 36 per cent higher than the national average, the constant operational pressure, which has resulted in a stock of 21.82 million extra hours for the time being unrecovered and unindemnified. There are also missing sirens, a shortage of ammunition preventing training shots and the fact that one in ten vehicles is more than ten years old. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This bill is therefore a first step in favour of our public security authorities – but it is only a first step. We, who are elected from the ground, know these realities. We demand a strong commitment from the Ministry of the Interior to address the great suffering of our public security authorities on a lasting basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u127	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u128	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are going to look at and, I hope, the adoption of it meets a need both for our law enforcement agencies and for our fellow citizens. Since the law strengthening the fight against organized crime, terrorism and its financing and improving the efficiency and guarantees of criminal procedure, national police officers and members of the national gendarmerie are allowed to make audiovisual recordings of their interventions, under certain conditions, by means of individual cameras. This authorization was extended to municipal police officers in the form of a two-year experiment. This experiment came to an end on June 3rd; hence the deposit of this text. Indeed, this bill by Senator Jean-Pierre Decool was originally intended to extend the scheme to firefighters and prison officers, two categories of public officials who are particularly exposed to acts of violence and incivility in the course of their duties – I want to pay them a strong tribute. However, during its examination in the Senate, the text was usefully strengthened and supplemented, in particular by the sustainability of the experiment planned for municipal police officers. Through this bill, firefighters, both professional and volunteer, will be allowed to use individual cameras as part of their interventions, experimentally and for a period of three years. A similar experiment is also planned for prison administration personnel, in missions with a particular risk of incident or escape, because of the nature of the duties performed by the supervisor or the level of danger of the detainees concerned. We welcome the work of the Senate's Law Commission, which has provided a number of particularly welcome guarantees. I am thinking, for example, of the clear ban on the use of mobile cameras by prison guards during searches. We are also pleased that the Senate has referred to a decree in the Council of State setting out the modalities for the implementation of the bill, following a reasoned and published opinion of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms. We believe this is necessary in order to provide the necessary guarantees for the processing and preservation of the images thus collected. Finally, it is also desirable that the implementation of experiments should be the subject of an evaluation report. It was precisely through the evaluation report on the testing of the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers, submitted to Parliament on 7 June, that we were able to assess the usefulness of such a device. Indeed, the use of mobile cameras has a deterrent role: they reduce tensions and reduce incivilities by empowering individuals. They also make it easier for offenders to be found and prosecuted, through the collection of evidence. According to the Government's report, authorizations were granted to 391 communes, resulting in the use of 2325 mobile cameras. The returns are very positive; the municipalities point out that the wearing of mobile cameras has made it possible to calm some difficult situations. This positive perception is shared by both police and citizens. That is why many of us have received requests from the municipalities for the sustainability of the scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In order for municipal police officers to be able to use these registration devices again and also to be accessible to firefighters and prison guards, we hope, like the rapporteur, that the bill will be adopted in accordance with the law. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote for it, having opposed all the amendments that will be tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u129	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u130	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the news is a painful reminder that our internal security forces are too often victims of violence. Whether physical or verbal, these are all simply unacceptable. This resurgence of aggression could not remain unanswered by the authorities, which must do their utmost to ease tensions and secure the intervention of our law enforcement forces. Among the solutions regularly proposed, the wearing of a mobile camera seems to make consensus among the professionals concerned. Many legislative measures, adopted since 2012 by Parliament, have gradually extended the legal framework allowing members of the security forces to use a mobile camera. This authorization was granted to members of the internal security forces, officers of the internal security services of SNCF and RATP and, finally, municipal police officers. Since the law of 3 June 2016, an experiment allowed municipal police officers to make an audio-visual recording of their interventions using individual cameras. These officers could make such a recording in all places, "when an incident occurs or is likely to occur, having regard to the circumstances of the intervention or behaviour of the persons concerned". The use of these mobile cameras meets a dual purpose. At the outset, the device has a deterrent effect: it is an effective tool for calming tensions and preventing incidents, as the person who knows himself/herself is increasingly inclined to comply with the law. Downstream, the videos are objective evidence in the event of litigation or a challenge to the conditions under which an intervention took place. The recording of the intervention by means of a mobile camera thus helps to prevent the filing of excessive complaints for police blunder or control of the fact that the representatives of the order are sometimes subjected to. It also protects the person who might have been the victim of an abuse of authority during the intervention. The offence is detected through video, and the collection of evidence allows the perpetrator – or the perpetrators – to be prosecuted. The evaluation report submitted by the Government on 7 June 2018 confirms the positive feedback. Nearly 391 municipalities have obtained authorization to carry out the experiment, resulting in the use of 2325 cameras. Each licensed municipality has an average of six mobile cameras. These municipalities welcomed the deterrent nature of the wearing of cameras, which reduces the aggression of individuals towards police officers. They also noted a decrease in contempt of agent offences. Therefore, the moderating effect of the cameras is actually observed. The experiment came to an end on June 4. The registration of interventions has therefore not been authorized by law since that date. This has put municipal police officers and municipalities in a difficult situation, since there is simply a legal vacuum. The bill proposed by our colleague Senator Jean-Pierre Decool is therefore timely, since it allows, on the one hand, to perpetuate the experiment for municipal police officers and, on the other hand, to extend the scheme to other professionals responsible for a safety or security mission. On this occasion, I would like to pay tribute to the work done by the author of the text, Jean-Pierre Decool, who is present in our forums to follow the course of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u132	He was my predecessor on these benches for fifteen years, during which he was keen to propose pragmatic texts, always based on reflections relayed by the field, several of which were adopted. His visit to the High Assembly did not begin this will, and I welcome it. I now come to the provisions contained in the text. The purpose of this bill is to ensure, by article 2 bis, the sustainability of the mobile camera system for municipal police officers. As I explained earlier, this mechanism has demonstrated its effectiveness and has achieved broad consensus in the professional sector. The adoption of this text will soon enable new municipalities to equip their municipal police with mobile cameras. We hope that the State will be able to continue to support them financially in this process through the Interministerial Fund for the Prevention of Crime, as it did in 2017 for 116 municipalities, amounting to 171000 euros. Not satisfied with the sustainability of the existing system, Senator Jean-Pierre Decool wanted to go further by extending it to other categories of professionals to whom it could be useful. But it was still necessary to know the professional applicants, which was precisely the subject of the substantive work done by the honourable senator. Each professional body that may be interested was surveyed to determine, in consultation, whether the use of a mobile camera could be relevant in the context of its interventions. This brainstorming enabled the identification of two categories of professionals, thus expanding the panel concerned. The scheme will first be extended to firefighters by Article 1 of the proposed law. Both professional and voluntary, firefighters have unfortunately become targets in their interventions. In some neighbourhoods, they are not only victims of mere incivility, but of real watch-apens, with stone throws and Molotov cocktails or stabbing attacks. The latest report of the National Observatoire de la délinquence et des résponses pénals recorded nearly 2,280 attacks during 2016, an increase of 17.6% in less than a year. On the other hand, the Hauts-de-France ranked second in the regions where firefighters were most often attacked. No one can tolerate such an attack on those who take all the risks to save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u133	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u134	This situation could not remain unanswered, and it was therefore appropriate to extend the mobile camera device to firefighters. However, the Senate Law Commission has reviewed the mechanism to adapt it to the needs of the field and to guarantee the right to privacy. This limited the use of mobile cameras only to cases where "the occurrence or potential occurrence of an incident likely to endanger the physical integrity" of firefighters. The use of cameras is also excluded during medical interventions in order to ensure, quite simply, that medical confidentiality is respected. As with police officers, the device will be tested to determine its relevance to civil security professionals. The duration of this experiment has been extended to three years, compared to two years in the original version of the text, in order to take account of the time taken to launch the operation, which requires the award of public contracts for the acquisition of the equipment. A report will also be submitted by the Government six months before the completion of the experiment. We are counting on you, Madam Minister, to ensure that this report is actually forwarded to us within the deadlines set, knowing that unfortunately this was not the case for the report on municipal police officers. Nevertheless, history serves as a lesson, and we now know that the Government will be attentive to the fulfilment of its commitments. The bill also extends mobile cameras to a second category of professionals, namely prison guards. Faced with an ever-increasing prison population, they struggle to carry out their missions and are regularly attacked. More than 4000 overseers are injured each year, not to mention the approximately 12,000 verbal assaults against them. In order to curb violence in prisons, mobile cameras may soon be used for missions with a particular risk of incident or escape due to their nature or the level of dangerousness of the detainees. As with firefighters, the experiment will cover three years and will be the subject of an evaluation report submitted by the Government to Parliament. No incivility, aggression, physical or verbal violence towards those who provide security or help is tolerable. The IUD, Act and Independent Group therefore fully supports this bill. It is necessary, as you have understood, to vote in accordance with the wording submitted to us by the Senate, in order to ensure the rapid implementation of the proposed arrangements and to secure legally the municipalities who wish to continue the equipment of their municipal police. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that the mobile camera device alone cannot be an effective response to violence against professionals. The Ministry of the Interior, the parliamentarians and the professionals concerned will have to remain the force of proposal in the years to come, in order to continue to guarantee to the stakeholders an optimal level of security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u136	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u137	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speakers have just pointed out, the text before us today is intended to extend the testing of the use of mobile cameras to firefighters and prison guards and to ensure that this device is maintained for municipal police officers. In my view, this bill must be welcomed, because it meets a real need, particularly in view of the serious difficulties faced by law enforcement officials during their interventions, including firefighters, prison services and police officers. I take the example of firefighters in my turn. Their primary mission is to rescue people in distress. They often dedicate their lives to helping their fellow citizens, sometimes by putting themselves at risk. For several years, however, we have seen that they have been the subject of numerous attacks – the figure of 2280 has been quoted for 2016. I myself have seen in my territory, during exchanges with fire and rescue officers, that certain interventions must now be carried out in the presence of the national police. This, in my opinion, is unacceptable. Even if it has not solved all the problems, the proposed mechanism can provide transparency on facts of violence that are sometimes difficult to demonstrate. Let us now take the example of prison overseers. The situation is also alarming: if we stick to the quantitative point of view, more than 4000 agents are attacked each year. These men and women are known to be engaged in a difficult job, within a binding framework, in contact with sometimes violent audiences. The strike they conducted earlier this year demonstrated the fundamental need for an improvement in working and living conditions in the various prisons. It is a matter of equipping prison guards with a mobile camera not in their daily work, of course, but at certain sensitive times, for example when they are in contact with prisoners declared to be very dangerous – I am thinking of the DPS, the prisoners particularly reported – or when a movement develops in a prison. In my view, these mobile cameras can be useful not only for preventing, but also for detecting events that could be very harmful to the prison. Firefighters and supervisors, because of the uniform they wear, have unfortunately become targets in the same way as police and gendarmes. They are also victims of assaults that undermine the morale of the services. It is time to provide more resources to firefighters, prison guards and police officers, and to support them, not only by strengthening the workforce, but also by making available these modern tools such as portable cameras. The text proposes to continue on the open track under the previous majority. We recalled this in the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. The law of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing had launched an experiment, which the minister recalled the positive results. It is now a matter of sustainability, even if the system will have to continue to be evaluated. I therefore do not go back to the report of the Ministry of the Interior. There is also a need to monitor the use of mobile cameras. To this end, the Senate has specified the cases in which firefighters, supervisors and municipal police officers may initiate registration: where "an incident likely to endanger their physical integrity, having regard to the circumstances of the intervention or the behaviour of the persons concerned", may occur. The objectives are clearly stated: the prevention of incidents during interventions, the identification of those involved and the identification of the perpetrators for prosecution. The recordings will also allow the training and strengthening of the pedagogy of the agents. I insist on how the device should be controlled. We have been attentive to CNIL's observations. Apart from cases where audiovisual recordings are used in judicial, administrative or disciplinary proceedings, they will be deleted after six months. But some questions will have to find a very precise answer: who can extract the images or store them? According to the report, this care is left only to the judicial or administrative authority, if an investigation is under way. But we need to be very vigilant, by strengthening the control of the system. The CNIL has just recalled that developments must take place in several areas. First of all, the framework within which registration can be triggered, because it is defined in a very broad way, can give rise to complex interpretations. The notion of an incident can overlap with a very large number of cases, which warrants special attention. Second, although the Senate has limited the cases where mobile cameras can be activated, there are still improvements to be made in respect of privacy. This is particularly the case when it comes to distinguishing between public and private places. The question can arise on the ground, in cities and cities. It will also be up to us to work on the quality of video recordings. Reports point to their low quality. Sometimes, because of the way the cameras are worn, it is impossible to exploit the recordings. Finally, although the returns are generally positive, studies show that the presence or activation of cameras may be an already problematic situation. We must therefore encourage the development of good practices and advocate that studies be conducted in order to train staff for optimal use, from which they will benefit as much as the public. As I have just explained, the extension of the experiment is in the right direction, given its overall positive and pacifying impact. In addition, it tends to resolve a worrying situation related to the significant increase in attacks by personnel carrying out protection and relief missions. However, we will pay particular attention to controls and frameworks aimed at ensuring respect for freedoms. In general, we need an ambitious policy, because it is true that authority – from the state, law enforcement, firefighters and municipal police – is being called into question. This is a matter of concern. While there are tools, we may need to work harder to ensure that men and women who dedicate their lives to the public good are both better protected and better supported, not only by means but also by legal instruments. This text is a stone in the building that I propose to build.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u138	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u139	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text is intended to extend the still experimental use of mobile cameras by public safety authorities. I say at the outset: we are not opposed to this extension. The arguments put forward earlier by Ugo Bernalicis do not argue for a frontal opposition to this project. They tend, if I may say, to rationalise it, to make sure that we do not use this mechanism as an easy process, which would not improve the working conditions of the personnel concerned, i.e. municipal police officers and state security forces. Let us be clear: experience deserved to be tried and the device, provided its use was clearly framed, could be useful. This has been pointed out by speakers from different groups, but I stress the difficult situation of the officials concerned, particularly firefighters. The figures are overwhelming: 1939 attacks against them were reported in 2015, an increase of 21% over the previous year, and 2,280 attacks were reported in 2016, an increase of 17.6% in one year. In that year, 414 vehicles were damaged, with an estimated injury of over €280,000. The least we can say is that this is a problem. Although we are not opposed to the scheme, we are nevertheless making criticisms, which I shall endeavour to make in a calmed tone, hoping that they will be heard. First, there is a lack of an impact assessment, which would provide us with a basis for work, in order to objectify the first experiment. We must assess the contribution of the video and measure its strengths and weaknesses. Secondly, if you have wondered about unbearable, unacceptable violence against police officers, you do not at any time wonder what benefits the system could have on the population. Let us not limit ourselves to the protection of the forces of law and order. Without systematically and foolishly questioning the work of the police, let us ask ourselves if it can't be useful when some of our fellow citizens feel that the way they are being questioned is a problem – which we cannot ignore. In particular, I remember the case of the Traoré family. Two years after the incident, Assa Traoré has still not been able to obtain from the police any clarification on the conditions under which her brother Adama died during a check. Why not imagine a mechanism that would also allow citizens who contest the conditions of an arrest to seize justice? Unfortunately, the one you are advocating is not intended for that. Of course, the registration should not be triggered on the sole initiative of the agent, and should be more systematic. Third, the video recording does not fill the gap created by the lack of receipt in the event of identity checks. It does not allow the monitor to assert his rights, given the cumbersome procedure for accessing images. Again, it would be reasonable if the device were accompanied by the receipt that we had proposed to you, as part of a parliamentary niche, to make compulsory. This solution is very simple in truth, and it takes a lot of bad faith to consider that it would complicate the work of police officers. The issuance of a receipt during a police review would provide an objective basis for citizens who feel unfairly or too often controlled to appeal. This is not the case with the device you are proposing. Fourthly, it should not compensate for the lack of human resources. As I said in the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee: the lack of resources is the first thing the police forces complain about when we, elected from the field, are discussing with those who are exercising the difficult task of guaranteeing the right of every citizen to security. Before we discuss the presence of mobile cameras, let's make sure that the basic equipment works. This may seem basic, but in Seine-Saint-Denis, it would already be considerable for officials to have two vehicles available and to have them repaired in time. Whereas a police station in Neuilly-sur-Seine, which operates 24 hours a day and seven days a week, covers only 373 hectares, is it acceptable that a police station in the Seine-Saint-Denis, a department where crime is much more numerous, covers nearly 800 hectares, more than double the number? First and foremost, equality between citizens must be ensured. All should be able to file a complaint in a police station that is not too far from home. Because this equality does not exist, those who are on the ground – both citizens and police officers – would like to be given additional resources, rather than a new mechanism. Fifthly, I echo Mr Pueyo's comments on the situation in prison. You propose that the device be used by those who have the difficult task of monitoring. But let us not forget that the first problem in prisons is overcrowding. There are about 70000 prisoners in France, which is a record, of which at least 15,000 are in excess. Some 40 detention centres have an occupancy rate of more than 150%. It is intolerable that those who provide security should be attacked, but proposing a mechanism that will at most allow them to identify the perpetrators of the attacks is a response that falls short of their needs. Besides, I'm sorry to have a thought for the inmates too. We all hope that those who have committed misconduct will be detained in dignified conditions, and we deplore the overcrowding in prisons. Attention therefore to gadgets which do not provide a real answer to the concrete problems posed by the deterioration of the public service. Earlier, in the heat of an exchange, one of you said that the text responds on the ground to a request from the officials. That remains to be proved. Mr Bernalicis reminded me that the SNCF employees did not ask for the reform you imposed on them. The argument must not be variable geometry. I would now like to recall what I could call our demands, using a somewhat martial term. We want a detailed and comprehensive review of the experiment conducted between June 2016 and June 2018. We would like the scheme to be accompanied by a potential benefit for the agents, but also for the population. We would like the video to be activated automatically during any identity checks, and that this device be doubled by the issuance of a paper receipt. In short, we want to strengthen the rights of agents and citizens, because it is – that is what we are talking about – to improve the links between the police and the population. I conclude by testifying to my participation in the event organized by the Justice for Adama Committee, which took place a few weeks ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a defender of the national police and the Republican police, but I assure you that we have a real subject to deal with: the difficult relationship, in many neighbourhoods, between citizens and the police. You can't sweep it with a back of your hand, arguing that some people want to "break cop." It's not that simple. Many cases have not been tried or have remained opaque. When police checks were too brutal, some people lost their lives without families ever being able to get even a clarification of the facts. None of you would accept that his brother or sister would lose his life during a police check and still not know, two years after the facts, under what conditions this loved one died. Too often, the response – or lack of response – depends on the social environment of the target person. If we do not solve this problem so as to restore confidence between the police and the population, the devices, whatever they may be, will only be gadgets. I urge you to take this question with your arms and not to answer us systematically that we are developing an anti-flic culture. That is absolutely not the case. There is no republican society without the right to security, without police officers who have the means to work, without all our fellow citizens, especially the weakest, being able to live quietly without being attacked. Nevertheless, the difficult conditions under which the police often induce behaviour that is not tolerable and on which we must work. Unfortunately, no thought is being given to this point. We do not oppose the extension of the experimental device. However, in view of the reservations I have expressed, we will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u140	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u141	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur – it is nice to speak to four ladies (Sourries) –, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to comment on a text on the harmonisation of the use of mobile cameras, which aims to perpetuate an experiment carried out on the municipal police of 300 communes in France. While this experiment came to an end on 3 June, the Ministry of the Interior, the Senate majority and the government majority welcomed the success of the scheme among police officers. They want, on the one hand, to perpetuate it for these personnel and, on the other hand, to extend its use. The aim of this bill is to open the use of mobile cameras to two new categories of public officials: firefighters and prison officers, who are facing increasing aggression in their missions. The objectives are to prevent incidents, detect offences and prosecute perpetrators on the basis of the evidence provided by the recording, as well as to train officers to deal with certain situations captured by the cameras. In addition, this text provides that funding for the necessary equipment will come from assistance from the Interdepartmental Fund for the Prevention of Delinquency – FIPV. This one, by the way, serves a lot of things and is quite mistreated. Thus, in my department, which is so dear to me – the Seine-Saint-Denis, not to name it – this fund is used to finance the investment related to the installation of cameras in the traffic zones, especially in the large areas of HLM. Today, in order to put in place such equipment – useful for police investigations – in major drug trafficking spots, three years of waiting are needed to obtain funding from the FIPV. If the application of the mechanism we are discussing requires the use of this fund under constant appropriations, I fear that the waiting period will increase; Maybe we'll have a chance to get back to it. Let us be clear: in our view, the objective advanced is commendable, since it is a matter of enabling this experiment to take place as quickly as possible, which we are told would be very much expected of the agents. The text has two objectives: to sustain the experiment and to extend it to other agents. As far as I am concerned, as I have had the opportunity to say on several occasions here, I have always worked, as a Member of Parliament, but above all, as a local elected representative, to improve relations between the police and the population. I have always defended the granting of better working conditions to these officials, who work under terribly difficult conditions, and I will continue to do so, both in this House and elsewhere. However, within the Communist Group, this bill inspires reservations and questions, which prevents us from fully joining them. First of all, we regret – as has already been said – that this device is aimed only at agents. They alone will indeed have the possibility to turn on or off the camera when they wish, which seems to us a limit to the device. The images will only be used to benefit from evidence, without the individual in question being able to defend himself. You must understand that this provision will limit the re-establishment of trust between law enforcement and the population, which is a major issue. I do not deny the interest of the device for firefighters, but I point out that, during the 2017 presidential campaign, the National Federation of Firefighters had made thirty-two proposals for candidates. Of these, none related to the use of mobile cameras. The main concerns expressed at the time – which remain current – referred above all to the maintenance of the territorial proximity of relief and the need to compensate for the financial disparity between the territories, all of which we should take full control of. Finally, we consider that, in this debate, one cannot completely ignore or, conversely, try to anticipate the demands that might come from other professional bodies exposed. The extension of an option – previously reserved for law enforcement – to other public officials raises questions. As you know, other officials are subjected to daily violence in their missions. Therefore, why should such a system not apply to teachers, hospital staff – we know what some of them are experiencing, especially in emergency services – or to HLM building guards – who are also regularly involved? I am not sure that this extension to infinity corresponds to the society we want. Above all, I warn against an illusion – even if I think no one is talking about it here – of thinking that the technical means could be enough to solve problems, to calm anxiety, concerns in some public officials. The demands made by these officers, be they national or municipal police forces, prison staff, firefighters, hospital staff, to name but a few, relate primarily to the personnel needed to meet their tasks. Be careful not to try to deviate from the point of view of improving technical conditions, which are supposed to be the magic answer to a problem which is above all that of the staff and the means of public services. I come to our main reservation, which has led us to table amendments: we must ensure that the use to be made of these bands, and their length of storage, is strictly regulated, and that no abuse is possible. Here again, from our point of view, there is a relationship of trust between our fellow citizens and the custodians of law enforcement. Without paralleling a case that has taken us a long time in recent days, I would like to point out that among the charges raised by the public prosecutor in the course of the judicial investigations that he has opened is the retention of a number of video recordings in an unusually long period of time, according to the law. It is clear that this is not a minor subject. However, despite the difficulties posed by such a system, we consider that it should not be swept away by a turn of hands and that it is rather a positive development. As you said, the introduction of mobile cameras could reduce tensions between law enforcement officers and the population. It could perhaps contribute to the safety of their porters and also help to combat a sense of impunity, by gathering evidence more easily. Given the situation of these public officials on a daily basis, nothing should be neglected in order to improve their working conditions, provided that this is done by maintaining the fragile link between citizens and law enforcement. As such, we will not oppose this bill. On the other hand, we will suggest an amendment, which will aim to introduce maximum storage times when bandwidths are used in judicial, administrative or disciplinary proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this bill, with all the more confidence that you will accept our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u142	Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u143	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Commission, the rapporteur – this is the first time that I address four ladies at the beginning of my speech, and I am pleased to say so – ladies and gentlemen, as our former colleagues Capdevielle and Popelin pointed out in 2016 in their report on the bill to strengthen the fight against organized crime, terrorism and their financing, the Pedestrian cameras are a guarantee "for society as a whole, for police officers and gendarmes too often threatened or outraged in the performance of their duties as well as for those in question, who will be able to act more easily in the event of wrongdoing. Article 114 of the Act allowed, on an experimental basis and for a period of two years, the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers under the same conditions as those provided for the national police and gendarmerie. Many municipalities have been allowed to implement it, and nearly 200 evaluation reports – which took stock of the experiment – have been sent to the Ministry of the Interior; So it's not a feeling, it's a reality observation. These reports draw a unanimous conclusion, like the Association of Mayors of France, which we have heard: the municipalities draw a particularly positive assessment of the use of this device by their municipal police officers. Its use, whose experiment ended on 3 June, seems now to be much expected, both by municipal police officers and by elected officials. We must therefore shoulder our responsibilities and meet their expectations by sustaining the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers. In a context of increasing violence against law enforcement, the usefulness of mobile cameras lies mainly in its deterrent nature. The returns show that municipal police officers feel more protected and receive fewer insults. The mere fact that the agent is equipped with a camera empowers the arrested persons and allows to appease situations that could have degenerated into outrage. However, it is undeniable that the pediment cameras also provide traceability and evidence in the event of a challenge to the procedure followed. It is therefore an ethical tool, in so far as it makes it possible to objectively define the behaviour of each other. The date and time, to the second, is shown on the recorded images, making it impossible to mount. This is the best system we can implement, as it guarantees the protection of the police and the citizen while promoting the fight against crime. The text also aims to extend, on an experimental basis, the use of mobile cameras for a period of three years, to firefighters and prison officials – two categories of public officials who are increasingly victims of outrage and physical violence. The annual reports of the ONDRP – the National Observatoire de la délinquent et des résponses pénals – show a worrying increase in attacks against firefighters, who are no longer just victims of mere incivilities, but also of stone throws, Molotov cocktails and parpaings. Again this weekend, in Gironde, a fireman and a gendarme were attacked. I'd like to share my feelings. In this context, the "Don't touch my firefighter" campaign is again making sense. As long as our honourable senators have taken care to strictly frame the device, limiting it to only those cases where "the risk of an incident likely to endanger their physical integrity" and explicitly excluding the possibility for firefighters to use individual cameras in medical interventions, their proposal seems to me quite appropriate. The extension, on an experimental basis, of the use of individual cameras to the officers of the prison administration is, in my view, obvious. Today, as a result of overcrowding in prisons, there have been increasing attacks on supervisors, but also among inmates themselves. Unfortunately, there are still exceptional cases of inmate assaults by overseers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u144	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u145	The pedestrian camera is what makes it possible to pacify the relations between those who carry out the security and relief missions and the citizen. It is our duty to protect public officials and enable them to carry out their missions in the best possible conditions. It is also our responsibility to prevent abusive or discriminatory behaviour that some of them may engage in, and to ensure that our citizens are treated fairly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject all the amendments proposed, in order to allow a proper vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u146	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u147	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, tabled in the Senate by our former colleague Jean-Pierre Decool, aims to expand and clarify the framework for the use of individual mobile cameras by security personnel. The use of video surveillance arrived late in France in the early 1990s. In a few years, the use of individual cameras has grown considerably, particularly in order to protect security personnel. Article 114 of the Act of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing, and improving the efficiency and guarantees of the criminal procedure, allowed the experimentation for two years of the use of individual cameras by municipal police officers as part of their interventions. These cameras are a valuable tool for municipal police officers, as they help prevent more effectively any risk of verbal or physical overflow. They also ease the relationship between users and law enforcement agencies, and provide a means of verifying, a posteriori and in a real way, the exchanges taking place during the field operations. The films of these cameras can be exploited and, if necessary, made available to judicial police officers as part of an investigation. This experiment, in which three hundred communes took part and which ended on 3 June, has a very positive record. I am thinking in particular of the city of Saint-Étienne, in the Loire, where, in parallel, significant investments have been made, under the impetus of Mayor Gaël Perdriau, to improve public tranquillity: sixty additional agents, three times more video surveillance cameras – which now number two hundred and seventy – and the opening of a new municipal police station to better accommodate the public. Since 4 June 2018, municipal police officers are no longer allowed to make audio-visual recordings of interventions using the individual cameras they are equipped with. I regret that the services of the Ministry of the Interior have not anticipated this end of experimentation any more, especially since this decision seems unjustified and contrary to the wishes expressed by the President of the Republic, particularly in his speech on the politics of the city on 22 May at the Elysée. There is now an urgent need to legislate, because the safety of our fellow citizens, like that of municipal police officers, especially in the current climate, cannot save the slightest slackening or flaws. It is inconceivable that municipal police officers, who are expected to play an increasingly important role in maintaining security in the coming months, will be deprived of mobile cameras. In addition, this bill is essential because, while the legal framework is clear for municipal police officers, it is not clear to the unregulated professions that firefighters and prison staff are. I want to take this moment to pay tribute to all the firefighters who are engaged on a daily basis, throughout the national territory, to carry out the public service missions of local relief. I am thinking more than specifically of volunteer firefighters, because without them, ladies and gentlemen, how can we ensure that the territory is gridded between urban and rural areas? With my partner, Sylvie Bonnet, we are obviously in favour of holding a three-year experiment, allowing professional or volunteer firefighters, as well as prison officials, to carry out, by means of individual cameras, an audiovisual recording of their interventions when the climate is tense or their safety is threatened. But we wish, Madam Minister, the assurance that this time you will anticipate the exit of the experiment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will therefore, of course, vote on this bill, which is very much expected on the ground. But, Madam Minister, the Liberians ask themselves a question: could you just clarify to me why Mr.Gaël Perdriau, mayor of Saint-Étienne, was one of the few mayors to be notified to the public prosecutor by the prefect for having decided to keep the cameras - pétonons as a working tool for municipal police officers? Unlike some mayors who received a note indicating that they could maintain the cameras, but without operating them, the mayor of Rillieux - the Pope, did not receive anything. But, Madam Minister, we are all equal before the law: why these differential treatments? If you could not answer me, I would be grateful if you could ask the Minister of the Interior to do so, if possible in writing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u148	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u149	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the almost unanimous consensus on the issue of mobile cameras gives me hope, perhaps, that the era of major partisan positions of principle on the subject of security is over. After several experiments with this system, the time has come to extend it to new holders of public authority, firefighters and prison guards. The defence of public order is based on a fragile balance. It must guarantee the efficiency of public action, as well as the protection of the fundamental rights of all citizens. The forces of law and order and all the holders of public authority, if they are bound to a duty of neutrality and rigour, have also, unfortunately, become obvious targets. It is important to note that the feedback on mobile cameras is fully positive. The impact assessment of the law of 3 June 2016 fully confirms this finding. This is not a gadget, nor is it a magic formula for resolving conflicts between police and citizens. This tool brings numerous improvements, including the prevention of incidents in the course of intervention. Most people, faced with a camera, moderated their words – most, not all! Equipping the police and gendarmerie forces with mobile cameras is part of the ambition to simplify their exchanges with our fellow citizens. It is a tool that facilitates dialogue and ensures that each party has a more peaceful framework of expression. The impact assessment referred to above recognizes "the moderating effect of the system", as well as its usefulness in "relieving a tense or tending situation". The mere presence of a camera can, in a way, act as a mediator. Questions were raised when this experiment was proposed in 2013, but the daily use of mobile cameras provided the best answer. Indeed, this is in no way an act of distrust of the forces of law and order, but a possibility of avoiding spillovers. Beyond this aspect, the recordings made constitute an obvious method of proof, allowing to highlight both the proportionality of the means used and, where appropriate, their excess. This is an effective method of proof in the event of a complex situation. The supervision of the use of mobile cameras and, indeed, the resulting recordings, is carried out with the utmost respect for fundamental rights. This is done in full transparency and the legal regime governing registrations is strict. The gendarmes and the police are not the only holders of public authority who have become targets. That is why this bill envisages extending this scheme, on an experimental basis, to firefighters and prison guards. This is in line with the work of the Prisons and Prison Conditions Study Group, whose aim is, inter alia, to improve the working conditions of prison staff. These two professions, firefighters and prison staff, are increasingly confronted with acts of violence or, at the very least, defiance. This tool will undoubtedly contribute to the improvement of their working conditions. Protecting these public officials and reconnecting them with all citizens will require a lot of effort. We will not save any tools at our disposal, as these instruments have proven their usefulness and are likely to have an immediate impact. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I also propose a vote in accordance with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u150	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u151	Madam Chair, Minister, rapporteur, Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank our colleagues in the Senate for this bill, which has been debated at some point, because, as you know, the testing of mobile cameras ended on 3 June, without any legislative framework being provided by the Government to ensure a natural transition to this mechanism. One can thus regret the absence of anticipation on the part of the State. The situation was absurd, admit it. Fortunately, our former colleague Jean-Pierre Decool made it possible to clarify the situation by urgently tabling this bill in the Senate. Today, the controversy among mayors, unanimously satisfied with these years of testing, is closed. Indeed, during the examination of this text to extend the use of mobile cameras to firefighters and prison officers, we will perpetuate the use of these cameras by municipal police officers. The text raises a doubt and clarifies a legal shadow zone. This sustainability, which many elected officials and professionals have been calling for for for several weeks, had become indispensable, since the experiment of the 2325 cameras in the 391 municipal polices had come to an end almost two months ago. In recent years, the security environment has put a severe strain on municipal police officers, who have witnessed, and unfortunately sometimes victims, new forms of crime. Insults, insults and assaults of unprecedented gravity only grow against them, and words are sometimes not strong enough to indicate extremely serious facts. In 2016, 687 police officers were injured by weapons and 1984 gendarmes were assaulted. Is it acceptable that the agents in charge of the protection of the Nation and the security of our fellow citizens are, too regularly, the targets of attacks in the performance of their duties? This is true of the national and municipal police, of the gendarmes, but also of the firefighters, who risk their lives on a daily basis in the service of our country. For example, 2280 firefighters reported that in 2017, they had been assaulted during an intervention, almost 20% more than the previous year. It's just intolerable! As security has become one of the main concerns of the French, I naturally wanted to share my local testimony with you. In my constituency in the south of the Seine-et-Marne department, in Nemours, where I was a long-time mayor, about fifteen individuals spent a lookout for firefighters and police officers last January. Called on the spot for a fire in the sensitive neighborhood, they were pebbled by young people, received stone throws and Molotov cocktails; Firefighters were injured and several vehicles were damaged. There is still a long way to go together, in order to ensure the safety of both the population and those in charge of the population. So, unanimously, mayors and police unions welcome the efficiency of this modern system. In Seine-et-Marne, for example, three minors, aged between 15 and 17 years, had been victims of theft under the threat of a weapon with violence in a meeting. The authors' descriptions, communicated by the victims at the time of their complaint, allowed the reconciliation to be made with a check carried out the previous day and filmed in a mobile camera. The authors were arrested and admitted their involvement, resulting in their being placed under a warrant of custody and ultimately sentenced. How can we not boast today of the positive impact of this system? We see it as a deterrent to the public, but we also see that it brings responsibility to the people filmed, greater respect for municipal officials and the calming of situations. For officers, he reassures small municipal teams, facilitates the collection of evidence and has educational value. But all this arsenal made available to the intervention forces will be useful only if the judicial sanctions are firm. On this point, Madam Minister, I cannot recommend too much to the Government to go back to the Taubira laws, which have weakened the judicial institution. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to renew my support for the public service of protection, security or defence. They embody our values and the spirit of the Republic. By adopting this bill today, we will provide concrete support to these men and women, sometimes volunteers, who are very often heroes of everyday life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u152	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u153	Madam Chair, Minister, rapporteur, Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, as of 2010, insecurity against security personnel themselves has become an undeniable reality, without the need to insist on shocking episodes that everyone has in memory. The legislator has taken note of this development by gradually creating special regimes for the use of individual cameras: first for the national police officers and the soldiers of the national gendarmerie, in a sustainable manner after an experiment implemented in 2013; then for SNCF and RATP internal security officers, in experimental form until 1 January 2020. It is in this context that the decree of 23 December 2016, issued by Mr Bernard Cazeneuve, Prime Minister, and Bruno Le Roux, Minister of the Interior, in application of the law of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing, and improving the efficiency and guarantees of the criminal procedure. This decree was very much expected by all the municipal police officers, whom I thank, and for their cause. Those who are forced to play an increasingly important role in the production of security alongside the police and gendarmerie forces, this was the first time that a specific legal regime allowed them to experiment with the use of individual cameras until June 3. Three months before that deadline, the mayors of the municipalities concerned were invited to submit to the Ministry of the Interior a report assessing the impact of the use of these individual cameras on the operation of the interventions and the number of judicial, administrative and disciplinary proceedings to which they were used. These reports have fed a "very positive" overall assessment determining both for the Ministry of the Interior and for Parliament, leading to an informed decision on the sustainability of a system which has concerned, for more than a year and a half, 391 communes for 2325 individual cameras. But the very nature of an experiment is the need to reanalyse the data and assent of the CNIL – and if we need to legislate quickly, we need to legislate well, dear Mrs Lacroute. In our view, the CNIL has validated all the features of this bill initiated by our honourable senators. I would like to stress one point raised here and there. Empowering municipal police officers to wear and use individual cameras is not a response to a whim, nor is it an unconvinced desire to "orwellize" society. The cameras require officers who carry them to conduct themselves, since the possible recording is capable of bringing clues and evidence to condemn any wrongdoing on either side. The individual camera is not a gadget either. It undoubtedly helps to improve the relationships of proximity between security forces and citizens: through its visibility, it proves to be dissuasive before and during the intervention, without the need to start recording. If, however, the situation were to become tense or degenerate, the camera's capture would be decisive for the needs of a judicial, administrative or disciplinary procedure. Nineteen communes in the Var department experimented with the device. The municipal police officers I exchanged with confirmed to me that this is a very important additional operational tool, especially in coastal and tourist areas, whose attendance is exploding during the summer. To give you an order of ideas, the population of a city like Saint-Tropez goes from 2000 inhabitants in the winter to 100,000 in the summer. During these delicate periods, the cooperation of the municipal police with the gendarmerie services is very meaningful. For all these reasons, we believe that the continued empowerment of municipal police officers to use individual cameras is a responsible, welcome and useful decision that is fully part of the launch of the daily security police. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Voting for this text is fundamental in order to restore as quickly as possible the legal basis for the use of individual cameras to the officers of the municipal police, who have been heavily asked for during this summer period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u154	Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u155	Madam Chair, Minister, Chair of the Law Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the bill tabled and adopted by the Senate on the harmonization of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities. I thank the Law Committees of the two Assemblies for the seriousness of their work, and I welcome the voluntarism and availability of my colleagues in the National Defence Committee, to which I belong, who have been heavily involved in this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u157	I will not go back to the precise elements of this law, as my colleagues have already made an exhaustive presentation: the continued use of mobile cameras by municipal police, the experimentation of firefighters and prison officials, all for one purpose, the appeasement of relations between public security authorities and the population. For several years, we have been witnessing the gradual distortion of the link between the protections and the protectors, some feeling oppressed, others regretting that their function is no longer respected, a situation which is no longer acceptable. It's all about trust between the different parties. "For a State at the service of a society of trust", "For confidence in political life": these are the names of two bills that we have passed since the beginning of the legislature. The restoration of trust is the course we must follow in all areas of our daily lives. Trust is the major effect of our mission. Soothing is our goal. The results of the experiment with more than 300 municipal police are unequivocal. The mere wearing of a camera by a public security officer undoubtedly prevents spills that can sometimes lead to complicated or even dramatic situations. By its deterrent effect, the mobile camera is one of the guarantees of security for all. Deterrence goes beyond state-to-state relations, it can also intervene in interpersonal relations. It can be defined as follows: the actors renounce any type of aggression because they believe that the escountable gain is less than the potential loss. Thus, human psychology is at the heart of the reflection that we must have on the benefits generated by the mobile camera device. The triptych of municipal police officers, firefighters and prison officers is reflected in a human mirror made up of the population, victims and detainees. It is therefore on this triptych that we must concentrate our efforts, and the use of mobile cameras is fully in line with this logic of appeasement of human relations, by its deterrent effect. Let us not forget that the public security authorities have a duty to protect us, and we also owe them protection. In the same way as no violence against the population is acceptable, no aggression against the police should be tolerated. The images, unlike the testimonies, are objective evidence in case of litigation between the two parties. Any speech or gesture may be filmed, as victims of violence may have additional evidence in judicial proceedings. As an operational asset, effective and efficient use, mobile cameras granted to municipal police, firefighters and prison officials are a real added value for public security authorities, with, at the key, a calming of tensions and a moderation of reactions. The continuation of the experiment providing for the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers, which came to an end on 3 June, seems now to be expected by the authorities, given its positive results. In addition, firefighters and prison officials also face similar difficulties in carrying out their relief or monitoring missions. The possibility of filming their interventions could therefore also be a source of appeasement, provided that the device is adapted to the specificities of these missions. These are the various reasons why I believe that this text should be adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The road has been opened, follow it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u158	The general discussion is closed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u159	I would like to answer a specific question put to me by Mr Cinieri. The Ministry of the Interior informed all the prefects that since the end of the experiment on 3 June 2018, municipal police officers could no longer use mobile cameras, as there was no longer a legal basis. No instructions were given to prefects to report to prosecutors on the basis of article 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The report made against the mayor of Saint-Étienne is therefore a personal initiative of the prefect of this department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u160	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u161	Mr Jean-Marie Fiévet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u162	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a former firefighter who has devoted twenty-five years of her life to this passion which wishes to speak to you today. First of all, let me clarify one point: in the vast majority of cases, firefighters' interventions take place in the calm and serenity that suits them. Nevertheless, we must deplore a steady increase in violations of the civil security forces. This bill therefore strengthens the preventive and legislative arsenal for problematic interventions, and nothing else. In addition, section 1 provides that the use of individual cameras is restricted to cases in which "an incident occurs or is likely to occur that endangers their physical integrity". It therefore removes all concerns about confidentiality due to medical care. I will not go back to the very clear arguments put forward by our colleagues, particularly as regards the preventive effectiveness of the scheme. My years of experience on the ground and my many exchanges with my colleagues throughout France leave no doubt: the use of mobile cameras will not only allow, and this is indeed the objective, to protect firefighters from displaced behaviors, but also our fellow citizens who, in the event of a dispute over an intervention, will be able to use videos to determine the nature of the facts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In order to ensure first of all the serenity of the interventions for our relief forces, but also to offer an additional instrument of protection to our citizens and a lever of investigation to the justice system, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u163	Mr. Éric Poulliat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, the professional or volunteer firefighters, the soldiers of the brigade des sapeurs-pômeurs de Paris and the battalion des mariners-pômeurs de Marseille, have the service of the population chevillé au corps. They are on the front line to respond faster and more often than any other emergency actor to the needs of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, as I pointed out in the general discussion, they are increasingly subject to incivilities and aggression. While these attacks were once geographically restricted to areas of urban violence and sensitive neighbourhoods, they tend to spread. This phenomenon is unacceptable, and it is our responsibility to contribute by all means to the protection of those who protect us. Allowing them to use the mobile camera device in the exercise of their mission is a first step in this direction. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The National Federation of Firefighters, the FNSP, has welcomed this initiative, and in particular the pragmatism of the planned supervision, taking into account both the nature of the missions, marked by the preponderance of emergency relief to the people, and the conditions for carrying out these interventions, which lead firefighters to enter the homes of the people. The FNSP expressed its support for a compliant vote by the National Assembly. I suggest that you follow his advice and vote without amending section 1 of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u165	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u166	[[Smile]] We come to the discussion of section 1 of this bill by Senator Jean-Pierre Decool, whose presence in the gallery tonight I welcome – this place no doubt reminds him of many memories. Former mayor, I can testify to the effectiveness of surveillance cameras, arrived in our cities and villages about twenty years ago; Very quickly, we talked about "video protection". The purpose of this bill is to allow the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities in the performance of their often dangerous tasks. The Council of State and the CNIL did not err in this: they recognized the relevance of such arrangements to the aims pursued. It is unacceptable that our firefighters, professional or voluntary, should be targeted in interventions designed to protect people and property! I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to their courage and dedication. The results of the experiment with the use of individual cameras by municipal police officers, under the same conditions as the police and the gendarmerie, until 3 June, are positive. This encourages us today to go further. I am therefore in favour of the adoption of Article 1, which launches an experiment allowing firefighters to make, by means of individual cameras, an audiovisual recording of their interventions, at the prior request of the SDIS. Special conditions are required, however, as the physical integrity of firefighters will have to be threatened. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Some amendments could probably have improved this text; But for the sake of efficiency, and recognizing the urgency of voting on this text, I am in favour of a compliant vote. This will remove legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u167	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u168	Because they are on the front line, firefighters are subjected to acts of violence and incivility. This is unacceptable. This extension of the possibility of using mobile cameras is a very good thing, which will certainly improve the situation – we all agree. However, Minister, why will a prior request from SIDS be required? Why not have a general measure, as we have done in the previous text on mobile phones in schools? [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Moreover, I warn you: when the experiment for municipal police came to an end, we found ourselves in a situation of legal vacuum. This is unfortunate for all those who want to use these mobile cameras, and it must not happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u169	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u170	I've heard a lot from each other about scientific studies; But, having looked for them, I wonder what you rely on. I'm a taker of all those you'd like to pass on to me! Taking note of the report, I was comforted in my idea that its scientific aspect is to say the least questionable: it is mainly confined to collecting good feelings and scattered facts. I want to make the law with good feelings, but I have to warn you: the studies that I have consulted show on the contrary that the pieton camera can increase the probability of assault for the agents! This must be taken into account. It is not Ugo Bernalicis who says it, since some ideological posture; It's a scientific study. That is why Amendment No 4 states that the use of individual cameras "is framed by a doctrine of employment". We can't swing the cameras to the agents by telling them to take care of themselves as they can! "Film as you please, whenever you want, as you please": no. There will, I know, be circulars, practical guides... But I'm kind of used to administration, and I know everything isn't always perfectly planned. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the officers who will be assigned to the daily security police on 1 September will not have received any prior training? Former right-wing governments – for which I have no affection – had planned, however, a two-week training for the agents affected, for example, in the district territorial units, the UTEQs, in order to explain the doctrine, the objectives... I wouldn't want us to swing cameras, to see, without precaution. I would therefore ask you once again, Madam Minister, to commit yourself to the national representation to provide for a scientific evaluation mechanism, which would bring together the Ministry of the Interior, the National Institute of Advanced Studies of Security and Justice – the INHESJ – and the Centre for Sociological Research on Law and Criminal Institutions – the CESDIP. This would provide us with objective data.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u171	We come to the amendments. I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u172	This amendment, along with the other seven that I have tabled, is intended to open the testing of mobile cameras to training exercises and training. Indeed, the risks, incidents and accidents that the proposed law aims to prevent are not the same during training and during the missions themselves; But they exist just as well. These cameras could also multiply the effects of the exercises, and bring valuable elements of response when, unfortunately, they turn into drama. I am thinking here in Amandine, twenty-seven years old, young recruit of the Paris River Brigade, who disappeared on 5 January during an exercise on the Seine, and whose body was found only on 29 April, a few meters further, at the level of the Pont des Arts. I would like to have here, in the name of national representation, an emotional thought for her and her family. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why I found it important to extend the scope of this scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u174	I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable. Mobile cameras are intended to be a tool for appeasement of relationships with the population, and the images collected may be used as evidence. Such an amendment would change the very spirit of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u176	The recording of images during training or exercises is already possible; it is not necessary to specify this in the law. The procedure provided for in the proposed law is to allow the recording of images of third parties, not belonging to the service. I therefore also suggest withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u177	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of this, I withdraw this amendment. I will do the same for the other seven, who have the same object.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u179	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u180	We understand the need for early passage of this bill. However, I will defend our amendments, which aim to improve it. Madam rapporteur, since our work in committee, I have corrected this amendment. You objected to me that moral violence is not legal in nature. The new wording includes all the insults and insults that firefighters may suffer during their interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u182	Thank you for taking into account the clarifications I had provided. Unfortunately, my opinion remains unfavorable. First of all, the missions of police officers and gendarmes should not be confused, on the one hand, with those of firefighters on the other. In addition, the firefighters themselves believe that the only cases likely to compromise the proper performance of their missions are those in which the aggression is of a physical nature, and the text responds to this request.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u184	Your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory. If an incident is likely to compromise the mission, i.e. prevents firefighters from acting, then this means that their own safety is compromised. However, insults or threats may lead the firefighter to assume that there is a risk of physical harm, thus triggering a recording. I therefore suggest that the amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u185	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u186	President of the SDIS of Gironde for seventeen years, I am very pleased with the extension of this experiment to SDIS. The State will finance camera equipment for police officers, gendarmes, prison guards, fire brigades in Paris and the naval firemen in Marseilles. It seems to me that in his great generosity he could also finance the equipment of the SDIS in place of the departments and that of the municipal polices in place of the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u187	Excellent remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u188	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u189	I trust you, minister. However, I am very sensitive to our colleague's amendment: firefighters are not only physically assaulted, but also verbally and violently assaulted, which sometimes prevents them from going where they should go to help a person. And their vehicles are sometimes pebbled! It's totally unbearable to me. I myself am a member of the Board of Directors of an SIDS, I know the firefighters well, and I know how these incidents are breaking their morale. It is a phenomenon that would have been unimaginable fifteen or twenty years ago. The same applies to the gendarmes. The subject is therefore essential. But since the minister assures us that the bill is properly dealt with, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u190	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u191	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u193	The amendment is intended to allow a camera to be activated when the physical integrity of a third party is in danger. This amendment has the same flaws as the previous one. On the one hand, the purpose of the device is only to protect firefighters in the event of physical assault, which excludes the triggering of a third party's physical injury. On the other hand, there is a real risk of confusion as to the missions carried out by firefighters, since they have no public safety prerogative. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u194	I have before me two amendments, Nos 9 and 10, which can be presented together. Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u195	As I said earlier, Madam President, I am withdrawing these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u196	I have before me two amendments, Nos 17 and 45, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u197	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u198	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u199	He is also defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u201	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u203	Unfavorable opinion. Information on the triggering of audiovisual recordings is an indispensable guarantee for filmed persons, which is such as to reconcile the right to privacy with the needs related to the objectives pursued. Exceptions to this principle should therefore be considered in a restrictive manner. For that reason, the Government, which was more demanding, reserved them only to cases in which circumstances prohibited them. In order to derogate from the right of prior information, it is necessary for municipal police officers to have a criterion that does not require any assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u204	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u205	I would point out that these amendments are not aimed at municipal police officers, but at firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u206	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u207	In an effort of brevity, I will also defend Amendments Nos 28 and 29, because these three amendments, although they apply to firefighters, prison staff and municipal police officers respectively, concern the same subject. As I mentioned earlier, the bill as currently drafted does not provide for maximum storage time for recordings captured by mobile cameras, from the moment they are used for evidence in judicial, administrative or disciplinary proceedings. It will be easy for everyone to understand that the lack of time to remove bandwidths in the Act is problematic, as this lack of precision would in practice allow for the indefinite retention of bands used in these procedures. This amendment is therefore intended to supplement the current text by remedying this impreciseness. It establishes a maximum retention period of one month after the end of the current procedure. It thus preserves the objective of using video as evidence in a procedure while respecting the right to delete data concerning individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u209	It will be unfavourable for the three amendments. First of all, the proposed system for firefighters, prison officers and municipal police officers takes as a frame of reference article L. 241-1 of the Code of Internal Security, which sets out in particular the duration of preservation of images and from which we do not wish to depart. The aim is to apply the same device for all agents driven to use mobile cameras. Secondly, the CNIL – which we heard during the hearings – validated the framework and proportionality of the entire system. Finally, a decree in the Conseil d'État, taken after the advice of the CNIL, is planned. It shall, in particular, make it possible to specify the detailed rules for the application of this Article. The CNIL, which had issued an opinion in favour of the text in its current form, would intervene after the latter's vote. So, Mr. Little, we suggest that you withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u211	The purpose of these amendments is to set a maximum period of one year for the storage of images at the end of a procedure. Once handed over to the courts, the registration constitutes evidence, the destruction of which falls within the scope of the decision of the judicial authority. In administrative matters, particularly in disciplinary matters, images become documents in the file, the deletion of which is governed by special provisions. For the record, elements relating to a reprimand and temporary exclusion of functions up to three days are automatically deleted from the agent's file after three years. Those relating to larger penalties may be deleted after ten years, at the request of the officer and after the advice of the Disciplinary Board. For these reasons, the Government has issued an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u212	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u213	This amendment is intended to allow records to be kept for one year and not six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u215	Unfavorable opinion. As before, we want to retain the framework established for national police officers and gendarmes by article L. 241-1 of the Internal Security Code. Moreover, there is no return to the ground to say that the length of time provided for in the text is insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u217	Unfavorable opinion. The arguments are the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u218	I call Mr Cazenove to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u219	Paragraph 2 (d) of Article 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR – states that it does not apply to threats to public safety. Threats to civil security, however, are not included in the exceptions to its application. In order to maintain the relationship of trust between civil security authorities and citizens, this amendment aims to clarify the conformity of the use of the data collected by firefighters with the GDPR.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u221	This amendment seems to me to be satisfactory since the GDPR, which, as its name suggests, is a European regulation, is to be applied as soon as it enters into force, without the need to transpose it into national legislation. The scope for manoeuvre to be the subject of national choices has been discussed – and is still being discussed – in the context of the debate on the draft law on the protection of personal data. The decree, I repeat, will be subject to careful consideration by the CNIL and the Council of State, which will be very vigilant on the points that concern you. I therefore suggest you, Mr Cazenove, withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u223	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u224	Mr Cazenove, would you like to retain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u225	After hearing the rapporteur's explanations, I shall withdraw her.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u226	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No 20, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u227	The purpose of this amendment is simply that, in the event of contempt, firefighters should be considered in the same way as law enforcement officers, mayors, prefects or prison guards.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u229	Your amendment, Mr. Member, goes far beyond the purpose of the bill. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion. I would add that, like you, we are contemplating a proper vote on this text. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u231	Aggravation of the penalty for contempt of a firefighter would introduce differences between public service officials to which we are not in favour. In addition, we also wish to reach a consistent vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u232	I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u233	As I said earlier, it is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u234	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u235	Defended, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u237	Unfavorable opinion. We must wait for the return of the experiment, after which we can, if necessary, remove this individual empowerment. Since the prison environment is already very video-visual, it is logical that the surveillance should be lighter for its officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u239	This requirement of individual empowerment is likely part of the imperfections of the text voted by the Senate. It will be necessary to return to this after some time of experimentation. As you know, honourable Member, it seems to me better to vote on the text in the same terms as the Senate. Therefore, while acknowledging this imperfection, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u240	Mr Bouchet, would you like to retain the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u241	I'm withdrawing it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u242	Is Amendment No 12 withdrawn, Mrs Mirallès?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u243	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u244	I have before me two amendments, Nos 22 and 16, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u245	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u246	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u247	If it is legitimate to define a strict framework, it must be understood that, in some cases, the agent who warns of registration puts himself in danger. That is why I tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u248	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u249	Unfavorable opinion, in consistency with my position on similar amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u251	Same opinion. I explained this to myself earlier. Experimentation is only possible if it takes place within an operational framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u252	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u253	I am not sure that these amendments and precedents correct an imperfection of the Senate text. If I understood their initial will, honourable senators wanted to equip cameras not for prison officers but for those carrying out judicial extractions. By extension, one can imagine that the experiment goes to the prison, but this environment, as the rapporteur has observed, is already very video-visual. So why add individual cameras for the agents?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u254	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u255	I've already defended her, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u256	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u257	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u259	Unfavorable opinion, in consistency with my earlier opinion on a similar amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u260	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 2. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u261	I take up the idea that I put forward in the motion for referral to committee: once the agents are equipped with cameras, it would be a shame if they did not trigger them at the time when the recording would be most appropriate, especially when the situation degenerates. The latter may then constitute evidence for complainants or for police officers, firefighters, municipal police officers or prison officials. We propose a kind of experimentation in the experiment, consisting of making mandatory the activation of the camera for each intervention. In addition, the absence of a trigger would be an aggravating circumstance in the event of a complaint. It is a question of being able to assess the effect of the measure, distinguishing the case of the systematic initiation of the other cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u262	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u263	Your amendment is outside the scope of this bill. He proposed amending article L. 241-1 of the Internal Security Code, which applied to national police officers and gendarmes, while the debate concerned the use of cameras by municipal police officers, prison officers and firefighters. My opinion is therefore unfavorable, especially since the amendment contradicts the meaning that we wish to give to the device: it is not a matter of filming everything, all the time. The use of the camera has a preventive scope, it is part of a desire to appease relationships. There is no question of turning police officers or gendarmes into permanent "videosurveillers" or "videosurveillants". Finally, I refuse to see in your amendment a trial of intent or a sign of distrust of the national police or the gendarmerie. You may be able to reassure me on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u265	The amendment amends Article L. 241-1 of the Internal Security Code in order to experiment for a year with the systematic recording of interventions. While the experiment on the use of individual cameras has just ended and gives rise to the report you have cited, the Government is not in favour of a new experiment, even if it relates exclusively to the mandatory initiation of the recording. In addition, the new offences of subtraction of evidence, provided for in article 434-4 of the Criminal Code, which you propose specifically criminalize the failure to trigger his individual camera.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u266	We need consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u267	On the one hand, these offences could only apply to police officers and gendarmes, which is not provided for in the text. On the other hand, while the registration of any intervention will be planned on an experimental basis in a given geographical area, it would be inconsistent for non-registration to be punished in general and by amending the penal code, without waiting for the outcome of the experiment. Finally, it would be disproportionate to sanction three years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 45,000 for not having triggered the camera or not having made the recording because of defective equipment of the police officers in the same way as those who voluntarily, by positive acts, alter, falsify or erase traces and clues. The Government therefore expressed an unfavorable opinion. I would like to take this opportunity to answer a question from Mr Bernalicis. There is indeed a joint instruction from the Directorate-General of the National Police, the Directorate of the National Gendarmerie and the Paris police prefecture of 1 March 2017 on the use of pediment cameras in the national police services and in the units of the national gendarmerie, which is similar to an educational vade-mecum.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u268	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u269	Understand me well: we have tried to address this subject without ideological a priori. We believe that the experiment must be complete, it cannot remain in the middle of the ford. We could blame a policeman, if things go wrong, for not triggering his camera. If someone complains of being beaten and the policeman replies that, in lack of luck, he did not press the button, it will be word against word – we know this kind of situation. Far be it from me that all police officers act in this way – we know that this is not the case. But the Ministry of the Interior is the one that pronounces the most sanctions – it's all to his honour. This severity guarantees the irreproachable nature of the police – this is in any case the objective pursued. Since the police have a new prerogative, that of triggering the camera, they must be punished if they do not exercise it, otherwise it does not rhyme anything. I do not know if you understand the logic of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u270	I get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u271	The aim is to be able to make comparisons between common law and systematic registration – does this generate mistrust? Does it turn the police into Robocop who just press the button and say "anything that can be said can be held against you", as in the movies?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u272	It's not a movie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u273	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u274	We want to add something to the experiment. We seized this legislative vehicle to introduce a new requirement for police and gendarmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u275	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u276	This amendment is intended to give urban supervisory centres direct access to images. This would ensure an immediate, but above all proportionate, response.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u278	This amendment departs from the purpose of the mechanism provided for in the proposed law. My opinion is therefore unfavorable. In addition, the safeguards against infringement of the right to privacy should have been clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u280	You wish to authorize the transmission of images for use only by national police officers and members of the national gendarmerie. It is therefore not consistent to add to this article a paragraph concerning "national police officers, municipal police officers, members of the national gendarmerie, prison officials, firefighters". In essence, the transmission in real time of images captured and recorded by the mobile cameras of these public authorities is a separate purpose from those limited to those listed for the use of such cameras. This new purpose therefore requires that additional safeguards be provided with regard to the infringement of the right to privacy. However, these guarantees are in no way specified by the amendment. If your amendment mentions the situations in which real-time transmission can be implemented, it does not regulate the purpose of the transmission. It also does not set out the list of persons authorized to view the images or the manner in which they are kept. You mention a consistency with the provisions of article L. 2251-4-1 of the Transport Code authorizing, on an experimental basis, the officers of the internal security services of the SNCF and RATP to transmit, in real time, when the security of the agents is threatened, the images captured and recorded by means of the individual cameras at the command post of the internal security service concerned. However, this provision has never been implemented, thus preventing an assessment of such functionality. For these reasons, the Government is currently opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u281	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u282	In the same spirit as the previous amendment, this amendment proposes to expand the use of pedestrian cameras. You will not be able to say that La France insoumée is opposed to the cameras – I hope the message is quite clear. We try to analyse this subject with precision, rationality and scientific method. I would therefore like to expand the experiments and obtain from the minister – I hope that she will give me a sign before the end of the review of this text – the assurance that researchers and scientists will be able to work on the use of cameras, and thus provide an objective analysis to feed into future debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u284	In line with my opinion on a similar amendment, my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u286	Opinions were also unfavourable, out of consistency. I would point out to Mr Bernalicis that I never have a priori on his ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u287	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u288	This amendment takes up our proposal to put in place a receipt during identity checks. I am pleased, Madam Minister, that you do not have a priori with me. We'll be able to start working.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u289	Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u290	My other question about the association of researchers and scientists remains so that we can support our discussions with scientific work. I make the promise before the national representation: if scientists demonstrate the correctness of the device, the absence of aircraft effects and difficulties, I will have no difficulty in expressing my support for the large-scale deployment of cameras - pedestrians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u292	Your amendment seems to me to be largely satisfied by the Law on Equality and Citizenship of 27 January 2017, article 211 of which states: "I. on an experimental basis, for a period of one year and under the conditions laid down by a decree in the Council of State, during each identity check carried out pursuant to article 78-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the registration provided for in article L. 241-1 of the Code of Internal Security is systematically carried out by agents equipped with a mobile camera. The I comes into force on the date of publication of the decree in the Council of State provided for in the same I, and no later than 1 March 2017. » Lessons need to be learned from this experiment. That is why my opinion is unfavorable, especially since the amendment deals with something other than the one we are dealing with today. I invite you to remove it. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u294	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Bernalicis, you have tabled a bill on this subject, which we have discussed at length. I'm not going to repeat the same arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u296	To ease your anxieties, know that the Minister of the Interior has planned to put in place soon the "Lab police de sécurité du quotidien – PSQ" to observe and analyse its implementation in the territories. Among the people who will be part of this Lab are a large number of researchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u297	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u298	Thank you, Minister. Everything comes to the point who knows how to wait. From a methodological point of view, it seems to me that it would have been preferable to set up the "Lab" before implementing the QSP. Maybe I'm just a little down to the bottler. I hope that the researchers will take part in his work and I ask, with your consent, to be able to participate in it as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u299	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor to support Amendment No. 2, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u300	At the same time, I will introduce Amendment No 1 after Article 2a. The security officers of SNCF and RATP can be equipped with individual cameras to secure their interventions by deterring violent behaviour towards them. These incidents – malicious acts, violent behaviour in transport – are not unique to Île-de-France or SNCF trains. Across the country, there is also a need to protect the agents of the various transport networks involved with the security forces, as well as the controllers when faced with aggression on the part of the violators. Experiences in the police and in transport experiments have shown that the use of individual cameras immediately leads to aggressiveness in sensitive situations and helps to ease the relationship between the agents who represent an authority and the public. The information report that my colleague Aude Luquet and I gave last February on the application of the Savary law calls for, among other things, the extension of the use of pediment cameras to strengthen the fight against serious security violations. Within the framework of the Mobility Facilities, the thematic workshop "Safer Mobility" had made a similar proposal in order to reduce tensions and attacks, but also to help establish evidence. The use of mobile cameras is also a strong demand from transport operators, who want to have the means to protect their agents more effectively. This proposal to extend the use of pedestrian cameras is therefore clearly part of the range of tools that can strengthen the fight against incivilities and attacks on public safety. Similarly, the use of pedestrian cameras should be extended to customs officers. They carry out tasks of surveillance of the territory and its ports of entry, of combating illicit trafficking and of controlling persons and goods, which are often sensitive in nature. In the context of its monitoring and combating trafficking and organized crime, customs are exposed, in the same way as police and gendarmerie units, to the physical and verbal assaults of its agents in the performance of their duties and to the degradation or destruction of its property. The use of pediment cameras could therefore validly be extended to customs officers, who are also subject to aggressiveness on the part of the persons they are required to control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u302	I will reply to the two amendments, No 2 corrected and No 1, since they were tabled at the same time. You are proposing, Mr Vialay, a substantial extension of the scope of the text. However, we have not been able to conduct the hearings that would have allowed us to hear the professionals you are referring to, including customs officers. I cannot therefore judge the merits of your amendment; That is why I express an unfavorable opinion. I would add that the extension of the scope of application is not desirable, because the testing of the use of the stone-cameras by the agents of SUGE – General Monitoring – and GPSR – Network Protection and Security Group – is under way: I refer you, on this point, to Article L. 2251-4-1 of the Transport Code and Decree 2016-1862 of 23 December 2016 on the conditions for the testing of the use of stone-cameras by these agents. The implementation of this experiment has been delayed; We therefore have to wait for the balance sheet to determine whether or not we should extend the scope of the text. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u304	The same opinion as the rapporteur. It remains to be demonstrated that the first of the two amendments is valid for sworn personnel who do not have a safety function, as well as for internal security officers who do not necessarily have contact with the public. As for the second amendment, unlike firefighters and prison officials, customs officials did not express the wish to be equipped with mobile cameras. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u305	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u306	I am surprised that a certain amount of information has not come to you. At the end of the information report that Aude Luquet and I submitted on 7 February, I was careful to communicate the recommendations of this report, with a clear indication of all the officials interviewed. The requests of interested parties for the use of mobile cameras in transport services were then made clear. That we did not audition the customs services on this fact-finding mission is a fact. But if you were to ask the officers who perform security missions similar to those we are talking about and who are facing the same difficulties with the violators if they want to have additional means to reduce the aggression of the latter, their answer would be pretty sure: there is no need for a lot of hearings for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u307	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u308	I admit I don't understand. This amendment is indeed consistent with the logic of the Government and the majority. As long as mobile cameras are allowed for municipal police officers, firefighters and prison officials, why not do so for customs officers? Moreover, they are already part of the security forces community, as a fourth force, or of the intelligence community. I do not extend the list, but it seems to me that our colleague's amendments follow a form of internal coherence. In the original version of the text, I remind you that senators had not included municipal police in the scheme. We have done so: it is proof that a text can evolve. According to its title itself, this text concerns "the harmonisation of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities". So the field is quite wide. In these circumstances, my amendments on the national police and gendarmerie could also have been accepted with a little goodwill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u309	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u310	If you will allow me, Madam President, I will spare you two different presentations, and therefore at the same time defend my amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u311	All right, Mrs. Brenier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u312	Amendment No 40 is intended to extend the experiment to military personnel on a "Sentinel" mission, because of our country's high exposure to the terrorist threat. Amendment No 41 is intended to extend this experiment to include public road surveillance officers – ASVP – who are involved in identity, road or surveillance checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u313	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u314	They are intended to extend the experiment to military personnel on "Sentinal" missions and to the PWSOs. The opinion is unfavorable, because the missions here are very different from those of the agents we are talking about today. In addition, like you, my dear colleague, we are aiming for a vote that is consistent with the Senate. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments, otherwise the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u316	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u317	Do you maintain both of your amendments, Mrs Brenier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u318	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u319	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 2 bis. Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u320	While the experiment of the cameras -stones by the municipal police officers has just ended, article 2 bis perpetuates the device and provides it with a stable legal framework. As the rapporteur pointed out earlier, the 391 communes that have experienced it since June 2016 – many of them in my department of Hauts-de-Seine – are very positive. They underline the appeasement of relations between the agents and the resulting citizens, the deterrent effect of the wearing of cameras and the accountability of the persons filmed. I want to stress the reassuring nature of these cameras, both for our fellow citizens and for our municipal police officers, whose professionalism and dedication I would like to acknowledge, on behalf of the national representation and as the daughter of a municipal police officer. These mobile cameras will produce visual evidence when the conditions of intervention of the officers are challenged, as well as in the course of prosecutions or judicial investigations. In view of their indisputable deterrent effect, they will also be a tool for the effective prevention of violence and will generate more confidence with our fellow citizens, in the strictest respect for individual freedoms, since, as I recall, this bill, and in particular its Article 2 bis, have been validated by the CNIL. Our municipal police officers, like our local elected officials, expect much from the generalization of this equipment, which will complement the unprecedented efforts undertaken by the Government, in particular through the creation of the daily security police, which also aims to further protect and facilitate dialogue. The municipal police are increasingly on the front line, sometimes at the expense of the lives of their agents. Allow me, at this moment, to have an emotional thought for Clarissa Jean-Philippe, a young municipal policeman shot loosely by Amedy Coulibaly in Montrouge, in my constituency, on January 8, 2015. We think of his family and colleagues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you, on behalf of my group, the Republic on the move, to vote unanimously on this bill and its Article 2 bis, which are aimed at further strengthening the protection of our citizens as well as our police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u321	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u322	I am pleased that this clause 2 bis has been introduced by the Senate. Indeed, this article aims to perpetuate the use of mobile cameras by municipal police in the code of internal security, the experiment on this subject having been completed on 3 June last. It lasted two years, and its record is very positive. The objectives of this measure are multiple. First, the surveillance cameras guarantee the security of the municipal police officer. Secondly, they ease tensions in the event of conflict or aggression against the forces of law and order, as they lead individuals to temper their impulses. Thirdly, they are real operational assets because, in the event of an incident likely to affect the physical integrity of the intervener, technological evidence enables the infringement to be constituted and the processing of the proceedings to be speeded up. By providing "evidence through the image", they avoid unnecessary and costly challenges or investigations, thus enabling a more appropriate criminal response through a better assessment of the harm suffered. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] A former mayor of a village of 2,000 inhabitants, I know how important the work of municipal police officers in rural areas is. As in many small communes, we have only one municipal police officer to manage neighbourhood conflicts and incivilities or to ensure the safety of events. Patrolling alone, the municipal policeman, thanks to the mobile camera, is guarding himself against verbal attacks which are unfortunately too frequent. It is therefore essential that this mechanism be sustained throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u323	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u324	Article 2 bis was not included in the original draft law. As a result of the work of our colleagues in the Senate, it is responding to a pressing and justified request from our municipal police officers following the cessation of the June 3 test of the Pedestrian Camera device. In this respect, let me welcome the vision of our colleague Florent Boudié, who, during the previous parliamentary term, had wished to introduce this provision into our legislation: I think we can have a thought for him when it comes to persevering. Several months ago, like other colleagues, I had been seized by representatives of municipal police officers, who were very concerned about the end of the testing of mobile cameras by the municipal police. On the basis, in particular, of the report submitted to him, Gérard Collomb, Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, had then indicated that it was the responsibility of the legislator to seize the question and to assess the opportunity of perpetuating the experiment. Although it may be regretted that the duration of the experiment was a little short due to the delays in issuing permits and the acquisition of the necessary equipment by the municipalities, the conclusions of the report do not leave any doubt as to the need to perpetuate the use of the pediment cameras by municipal police officers. In fact, municipal police officers unanimously recognized the deterrent nature of the wearing of individual cameras, noting that they led to the accountability of filmed individuals and greater respect for their person. As legislators, we must listen to the people who work as close as possible to our fellow citizens and provide them with the tools necessary to carry out their missions in good conditions. So it is done today, and I welcome it. This mechanism, which is fully in line with the Government's efforts with the launch of the daily security police, the establishment of republican reconquest districts and the priority given to the digital equipment of our intervention forces, is, moreover, only another tool at the service of our security forces. It is up to us to include it in a security continuum that involves the articulation of the respective intervention missions of the State security forces, municipal police and private security actors, as well as through consultation within the local crime prevention councils, which set priorities for combating insecurity and preventing crime in the communes. The security of our fellow citizens necessarily requires a common reflection and a joint work of all actors on the ground. I would also like to note...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u325	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Thank you, my dear colleague. Your time has already passed. Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u326	I would like to stress once again, like many of my colleagues, the relevance of the bill, and in particular of Article 2 bis, which will solve the problem posed by the end of the experiment. Unfortunately, municipal police officers have not been able to have mobile cameras for two months, even though this was a good signal to offenders. The mayors who have experienced the scheme unanimously welcome its effectiveness. The formulas most frequently reflected in the assessments are those of pacification of situations, reduction of tensions and reduction of accusations. As we know, our municipal police officers are, unfortunately, confronted today, like their national police colleagues, with the need for complicated interventions, while their role is essential in everyday life, where they sometimes act as mediators. I want to point out that in Nemours – the city of which, I said, I was mayor – for the first time in the history of the commune, municipal police officers were pebbled by a group of young people in a sensitive neighbourhood on the occasion of 14 July. Some 30 individuals armed with stones and bitumen attacked the chief of the municipal police and the police car. The result: four days of temporary incapacity for work for one of these agents, seriously affected. This happened in a commune of 13,000 inhabitants, which is not located in an area of lawlessness. It was therefore time to propose a long-term legislative framework and extend the scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, I have said, Madam Minister, that justice must play its part and that penalties must be dissuasive and, above all, applied in order to strengthen the sense of action among municipal officials for the good of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u327	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u328	I had questioned Minister Collomb twice on these issues. I'll just say what everyone here thinks: at last! Finally, the use of mobile cameras by municipal police officers can be sustained. That was said, an experiment took place, which lasted two years and ended on 1 June 2018; its results are positive, as was also pointed out. It concerned 391 communes and 2325 cameras: that's not nothing. It can be said that this experiment was entirely satisfactory: the scheme was a deterrent, allowed greater respect to be shown to the municipal police, provided different evidence and provided a new educational tool for the training of municipal police officers. [[Exclaims on various benches]] Like most of us, I was mayor – of a city of 26,000 inhabitants, Cavaillon, located in the Vaucluse, at the foot of the Luberon, and famous for its melons; I invite you to come and taste the fruits and vegetables of my country! The 35 municipal police officers in the commune unanimously regretted that they could no longer use the pedestrian cameras, or mobile cameras. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Article 2a fills the current legal vacuum and finally enables the municipal police to live up to the expectations of our fellow citizens, that is, by guaranteeing their own security, to ensure their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u329	We come to the amendments to the article. Patricia Mirallès had announced that she would withdraw Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u330	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u331	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u333	Unfavorable opinion, in consistency with the position I have previously defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u334	Patricia Mirallès had announced that she would withdraw her two amendments Nos 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u335	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u336	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u337	I have before me two amendments, Nos 24 and 42, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u338	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u339	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u340	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u341	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u342	Disadvantaged, out of consistency with what was said earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u343	We come to Amendment No 29, which has already been defended by Mr Stéphane Peu.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u344	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u345	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u346	I have before me a number of amendments on the additional article after Article 2a. Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u347	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u349	Disadvantaged, because he is a legislative rider.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u350	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u351	With this amendment, we propose, in Article 78(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to replace the word " plausible" with the words "objective and individualized", and we put back a small layer of it concerning the identity check receipt – all for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u352	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u353	Disadvantaged: it is again a legislative rider. Since the amendment was intended to create a receipt for identity checks, it would have a greater place in a text on the reform of the criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u354	He'll be there too, don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u355	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u356	The same opinion, for the reasons I mentioned earlier with regard to the bill that had been put forward by the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u357	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the Republicans and IDU groups, Acting and independent of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me three amendments, Nos 1, 38 and 37, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 1 has already been defended by Mr Michel Vialay. Both Amendments Nos 38 and 37 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u358	It is logical that these amendments are in line with that of Mr Vialay, since we are co-authors of the information report on the implementation of the law of 22 March 2016. In the absence of a legal framework, carriers try to organize themselves by deploying a multiplicity of pediment cameras for screening officers. This is for example the case in Nantes and Angers. As for all public passenger transport security officers, how can we justify a difference between RATP and SNCF agents on the one hand, and their counterparts facing the same threats on the other? On the other hand, the rapporteur, you said that we were waiting for the evaluation of the experiment of the pediment cameras for the network protection and security group, the GPSR. However, at the hearings that we conducted to prepare our report, we received testimony that the GPSR still does not have pedestrian cameras at the present time. It is difficult to see how an experiment could be evaluated if it did not begin... My two amendments aim to provide a legal framework for the testing of pediment cameras by controllers and security officers for a period of three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u359	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u360	Disadvantaged, for the reasons I have already outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u361	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u362	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u363	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u364	I repeat that the GPSR today does not have pedonic cameras. How, therefore, can we proceed with the experiment which the rapporteur spoke of? We will be vigilant on these issues when considering future laws, including the mobility guidance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u365	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u366	All this is not very serious. It was the Government that organized the Assises de la mobilité, from which the proposals made here came. A report has been prepared and the request is made by the authorities concerned, by those who provide daily transport. What is the credit for a multi-speed operating logic? Is that to say that we would not be entitled to the same means depending on where we exercise our responsibilities, where we ensure control or security? Is that to say that the public that must be able to defend would not benefit, either, from the same tools in the face of aggression? The consistency that you are referring to, Madam rapporteur, is far from my conception of this concept.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u367	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u368	There is a need for a doctrine of the use of cameras – of all cameras, beyond the doctrine established by the Ministry of the Interior. I would also like to point out that there are, to say it nicely, substantial margins of progress within the Ministry of the Interior in the continuing training of police officers. I am not sure that all the police officers in the Ministry of the Interior who have a pedestrian camera have read the practical guide to which you referred, Madam Minister; and training provided by a police trainer and accompanied by situations could be even more effective than that guide. I also heard you well about the "PSQ Lab"; Of which act. At least I got that; so much the better. However, my request for research on the use of pedestrian cameras as such remains relevant: today, we do not have any elements that allow us to appreciate this particular aspect. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u370	Unfavorable notice: Minister Bernalicis has already responded to this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u372	I've already answered, indeed. Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u373	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u374	Madam rapporteur, the minister replied only partially, since her answer was only about the national police and gendarmerie. There is no doctrine or obligation to have a doctrine – I dare hope there are at least instructions and instructions – for municipal police officers. And what about the departmental fire and rescue services – on which the use of cameras will depend, since it is not mandatory, as one colleague pointed out – and the prison administration? I therefore hope that we will ensure, by including it in the law, the existence of a doctrine of the use of cameras. Madam Minister, if, before the end of this discussion, you tell me that there will also be a "Pedestrian Camera Lab", then we will be really connected!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u375	The commission maintained the Senate's deletion of section 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u376	I call Mr Cazenove to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u377	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] After preserving the possibility of a compliant vote, despite the consideration of more than forty amendments, it would be tantamount to breaking their teeth for an amendment on the title. That's why I'm taking it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u378	That's a welcome withdrawal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u379	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u380	Mr. President received a motion of censure tabled by Mr. André Chassaigne, Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Ms. Valérie Rabault and fifty-nine members of the Assembly on Friday, 27 July, at 4 p.m., pursuant to article 49, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 153 of the Regulation, this deposit shall be noted. The motion of censure was notified to the Government and posted. As decided by the Conference of Presidents, the two motions of censure, tabled pursuant to Article 49(2) of the Constitution, will be the subject of a joint debate tomorrow from 15.00. Each motion of censure shall be put to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-07-30-E1041.u381	Next meeting, tomorrow afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Debate and vote on two motions of censure under article 49, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. The meeting is adjourned.
