ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u2	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to raise her question, No. 308, concerning the notice of contravention for non-designation of a driver.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u3	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, I would like to draw your attention to the notices of contravention for non-designation of a driver issued to legal representatives about whom I have been solicited by many of my constituents. As of January 1, 2017, pursuant to section L. 121-6 of the Road Traffic Code, where an offence has been committed with a vehicle whose holder of the certificate of registration is a legal person, the legal representative of the latter shall indicate within 45 days of the dispatch or delivery of the notice of contravention, the identity and address of the natural person driving the vehicle. If the legal representative does not designate the natural person who committed the offence, he or she receives an additional notice of contravention for non-designation of the driver, a fine of up to 450 euros. This latter provision now affects many artisans, self-entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs who work alone and who, in good faith, spontaneously pay the fine without thinking of self-denunciation. This is often the result of a lack of clarity in the title on the first notice of contravention. In fact, it does not sufficiently specify the distinction between the legal representative and the natural person, nor their respective obligations, which can be all the more confusing since, in some cases, such as the one mentioned at the moment, the legal representative and the natural person are only one and the same person. You will agree that this situation is likely to cause serious inconvenience to many business leaders, who must subsequently engage in lengthy and costly procedures – for them as well as for the public prosecutor – to request exemption for notice of non-denunciation. I would therefore like to know what steps you intend to take to clarify the wording and presentation of the notice of contravention addressed to the legal representative, in order to prevent persons in good faith from having to pay increased fines. I would also like you to clarify the treatment of requests for exemption for these specific cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u4	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u5	Member of Parliament, since January 1, 2017, legal persons whose legal representative does not designate a natural person who has committed an offence while driving a vehicle owned by them are issued a notice of contravention for non-designation of a driver. The issuance of this new notice of contravention must put an end to the situation in which certain offenders who have committed an offence while driving a professional vehicle are not subject to the removal of points. In some cases, the corporation may even pay the fine directly instead of the offender. Such procedures are, of course, disresponsible for offenders and contrary to road safety objectives. The legal representative of a legal person must therefore, upon receipt of a notice of contravention, designate the driver who has committed the offence or designate himself personally, if he himself has committed the offence, including the reference of his driving licence. In order to facilitate the procedures of legal representatives and to clarify the procedures to be followed, the National Agency for the Automated Processing of Offences has adapted the documents it sends to them as part of the automated control. All the information that is useful to legal representatives can thus be found in the combined reading of the notice of contravention and the accompanying payment notice. While these documents provided a clear understanding of the scheme, they have nevertheless been improved, in line with the recommendations of the Ombudsman. It should be pointed out that the provisions of the Road Code providing for the penalty for non-designation were submitted to the Criminal Division of the Court of Cassation, in the context of an application for the transfer to the Constitutional Council of a priority issue of constitutionality. In particular, the Criminal Chamber stated that these provisions of the road code were unambiguous, and that they ensured a fair balance between the needs of combating road insecurity and the right not to be self-incriminating. While, in certain professional situations, the distinction between professional and personal activities is difficult, the process of registering a vehicle as a legal person is always a choice, which gives legal representatives rights and benefits, but also obligations. These include the ability to identify and designate the driver who commits offences at the wheel of the vehicle, and the ability to designate himself as a driver, if the legal representative himself commits an offence at the wheel of the vehicle. If heads of very small enterprises have not realized that they have registered their vehicles on behalf of a legal person, it is up to them to make requests for correction of registration certificates, which can also be carried out by electronic means, as part of the dematerialised procedures accessible via the website of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u6	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u7	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. You have not fully responded to requests for exemption from non-self-designated claimants, but we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss them together. There has certainly been a lack of communication on the application of this new measure. It would be relevant to transmit this information locally to all entrepreneurs so that they are fully aware of their obligations on this particular subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u8	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor to raise her question, No 310, concerning the issue of identity cards in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u9	Minister, since 1 March 2017, the issuance of national identity cards is no longer automatic in the town hall of the place of residence, but in a town hall with a device to collect the fingerprints of the users. Identity cards, such as passports, are now biometrics. This innovative device involves making an appointment on the dedicated Internet platform before being able to deposit its documents in person at the town hall, which gives rise to a second appointment, always in person, in order to recover the identity card. This system, which is intended to simplify the issuance of national identity cards, seems to me to complicate it. What is a reasonable time to get his ID? Before this system, we went to our town hall with the necessary papers, and we got the card within three weeks. Today, in some town halls, the waiting time for the first appointment can be up to three months, and once the application is filed, it will take between three weeks and one month to recover the ID. What is a reasonable distance to travel to get his ID? The limited number of town halls equipped with biometric terminals obliges citizens who do not live in large cities to travel up to 100 kilometres in order to re-write their documents. In rural areas, one could almost speak of desertification in terms of biometric boundaries. Should we also force the elderly, often isolated, to take such a long journey to obtain their identity documents? I'm not even talking about the lack of internet access. If, on the other hand, citizens are dissatisfied, on the other hand, territorial officials and town hall staff are on the brink of the explosion because of the influx of demands. In view of the announced deadlines, citizens compete between town halls and thus increase telephone calls in the various municipalities. The situation will remain unresolved until the number of devices for fingerprinting is doubled or even tripled, especially in rural areas. Madam Minister, what to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u10	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u11	Member, the reform of national identity cards has been taking place since 2015. The Ministry of the Interior has embarked on an unprecedented overhaul of the procedures for investigating these titles, with a threefold objective: to simplify the procedures of users, to secure the procedure – which is very important – and to strengthen the fight against fraud. The use of biometrics, which you mentioned, already allows us to see a sharp drop in fraud. In order to produce its full effects, this dematerialisation imposes a limitation on the number of municipalities equipped with collection devices. I recall that this mission is not a new mission that the State would have transferred to the communal bloc. It has been a mission of mayors for decades as an agent of the state. However, I do not ignore the fears of the mayors, and the exchanges with the Association of Mayors of France have led to firm commitments by the Government with regard to the financial modalities of the reform. For example, the State has decided to strengthen its financial support for municipalities with collection facilities. The two-fold increase in the allocation for secured securities in 2018 – from 18 to 40 million euros – has resulted in an increase in its flat-rate amount, to 8580 euros per equipment, and to 12130 euros when the scheme's activity reaches 1875 securities per year. I would point out that this allocation is paid only for the reception of users outside the municipality, since the municipalities are provided with State funds for the service rendered to their own population. You said that some users had to travel up to 100 kilometres, but it is possible for them to go to any town hall. They do not have to go to a specific location to apply for an ID card. In order to take full advantage of this reform, the town halls must, of course, adjust their organisation. A guide identifying good practices that could contribute to reducing delays is also available to the municipalities. For their part, the State services are also endeavouring to reduce the delays in the investigation and production of securities, in particular through dematerialisation, with the aim of achieving a global deadline – I say a global one – of no more than two to three weeks from the date of registration of the application in the application. Finally, I strongly encourage users to carry out the pre-application online, as this helps to avoid oblivion of supporting documents and facilitates the work of the reception staff of the town halls. I would also point out that in the public service houses that have been opened in all the territories, especially in rural areas, there is often a computer station where users, especially the oldest of them, can be helped in their applications by young people performing their civic service. All of these provisions reflect the Government's commitment to ensuring a high-quality, modern, community-based service at the time of information technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u12	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 326, on the means of police in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u13	Minister, my question concerns three different aspects of the police in Le Mans and in the Sarthe department. The city of Le Mans has asked your ministry to be a territory of experimentation of what is called the daily security police, which is in line with the local police, created twenty years ago in France and in other European countries, and then abolished for political reasons. Its mission was to prevent bad acts and arrest the perpetrators in a logic of finding the facts as close to the ground as possible, acceptance by the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods and communes, and effective repression. At the same time, our department does not have the means to combat the smuggling of migrants and persons in line with the needs. With regard to the daily security police, it should be noted that many visible behaviours for our fellow citizens – drug and tobacco-related crime, crime and incivility committed in gangs, small mafias – are little deterred and rarely prosecuted because of the lack of information shared between services. The police struggled to intervene quickly and continuously on the spot, and their objectives remained misunderstood by the citizens. The new day-to-day security police will have to meet several requirements: do not take up useful staff elsewhere; to organise a dissuasive presence while remaining accessible to citizens and elected officials; be available continuously, 24 hours a day; carry out preventive missions to neighbourhoods, including crimes against property and persons or the safety of vehicles, and judicial police missions. This certainly requires that some of the police work be rethought to avoid undue tasks or dispersal of interventions. With regard to the smuggling of migrants, Le Mans is the first city served by the TGV west of Paris and the Sarthe department is a motorway node between the South and the North of Europe, making this territory sensitive to the activities of mafia trafficking. Yet there are no air and border police in the department. At the same time, there are no Eurodac terminals in Sarthe, which would allow the registration of migrants, sometimes entered by a third country. On these points, what are the Government's commitments to address the specific problems of urban or rural areas, where actions undermine security and create a sense of insecurity? In view of the actions it is already undertaking and the means it is deploying, will the city of Le Mans be given priority in order to benefit from new and innovative means, and according to what criteria? Given their geographical position, will Le Mans and the Sarthe have a Eurodac terminal and an air and border police station with permanent staff? I thank you in advance, Minister, for your answers which I wish to make concrete and positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u14	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u15	Madam Member, with regard to the daily security police – PSQ – launched in February, it is now deployed throughout the country and will gradually rise in power, with in particular the development of local security strategies on a territory-by-territory basis. It will lead to a truly tailor-made police force, which will give more latitude to actors on the ground, and will allow for more police officers on the public road, closer to the population and local actors. This policy will therefore also be applied in the Sarthe – department that I know well. The PSQ is also accompanied by the essential projects – as you have reminded us – to simplify the criminal procedure and to remove undue tasks, to lighten the administrative carcan that keeps the police from their true missions. Progress has already been made in Le Mans, for example with the end of the static guards in the prefecture, who lacked legitimacy; But I admit that there are still important margins of progress. I would also like to point out that the number of public safety officers in Le Mans has increased significantly in recent years, from 373 officers at the end of 2016 to 389 officers at April 30, 2018. The second point you are referring to is just as important. It is a question of providing concrete and adapted responses to the migratory phenomenon that Europe is facing. That is the purpose of the bill that we introduced with the Minister of the Interior. As you pointed out, Member of Parliament, the Mans agglomeration is at the heart of an important railway and motorway node, a crucial stage in convoys. However, the fight against criminal networks of illegal immigration was a priority of that Government, both at the national and international levels, and the highly specialized border police were fully mobilized. In the Sarthe, several channels have thus been dismantled, sometimes with the help of other services such as the gendarmerie and customs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u16	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u17	In 2017, for example, an Irak-Kurdish industry that took care of migrants from Grande-Synthe, in trucks parked on highway areas around Le Mans, was discovered, with the arrest and imprisonment of smugglers. I've been too long, I don't have time to answer all your questions, but this mobilization will obviously continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u18	We need an air and border police station and a Eurodac terminal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u19	I get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u20	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to put his question, No. 331, on the decentralised administration of the State and the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u21	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the reports of various bodies and institutions, and not least – including the Court of Auditors, France Strategy, this Parliament itself – are unanimous: the State struggles to draw all the consequences of the decentralization of its powers in several areas towards local and regional authorities. A December 2017 report of the Court of Auditors on the deconcentrated services of the State goes even further by saying – I quote – that the State "continues to want to retain a presence and a role" in yet transferred areas. And that, even though it would be more useful to concentrate resources and human resources on legitimate or priority State missions such as security or justice. This, Madam Minister, is an anomaly that speaks volumes about the state of mind and ideology that still prevails in this country's high authorities. Examples of duplicates, if not proven, are legion in all regions. For example, why should the State continue to retain prerogatives in the field of vocational training when this competence is exercised in a decentralised manner by the regions? But this is also the case in the field of sport, tourism or regional planning, for example with the facilitation of rural contracts. More specifically, with regard to Corsica – but I could also talk about overseas – the status of 2002 is, in many respects, not respected; Has he ever been? The news proves it to us every day. The latest fact refers to the investigation carried out by the General Inspectorate of Finance, which was carefully carried out by the President of the Republic in order to take stock of the economic situation in Corsica while the community has drawn up its regional economic development plan. We cannot accept this method where the state wants to be alone at the centre of the game. Or, the President of the Republic has announced a plan to accompany Corsica to " forge the future of the island in the Mediterranean basin". We fully subscribe to this ambition because it is ours! But where it hurts, it is that the drawing up of this plan will be driven by the top, by the Prefect of Corsica, sweeping away all the strategies and contents of cooperation with our Mediterranean neighbours – in particular the Balearic Islands and Sardinia – launched for the past three years by the present territorial majority on very specific topics. It is as if one wanted to restore a form of guardianship; It is once again to disregard the democracy and the vote of the islanders who have elected representatives so that they, without going through the deconcentrated services, decide what is best for their development, in consultation of course with the economic and social actors of the island and with the State. It is up to Corsica to speak to the State and not the contrary. "Everything that is done for me, without me, is done against me," Gandhi said, and then following him Nelson Mandela; This sentence has also been taken up by deputies of the Republic on the outskirts plan to express the wish that people should be involved in the programming rather than be subjected to it from the top. However, this is what is happening in Corsica as in other territories. Madam Minister, will this Government finally respect territorial democracy? Will he be the one who will complete the process of decentralization through a new ambition? These ambiguities and competition between the state and the communities are detrimental to the development of the territories and the populations, and in particular Corsica. We advocate for clarification of decision-making powers and competencies, as well as a clear definition of what needs to be transferred to communities, not to mention the associated tax resources. In other words, it is a real status of autonomy in the Republic, particularly for Corsica, which we are constantly demanding by measuring, of course, all the burden that this responsibility places on us. We have assumed this responsibility for the last three years by dealing with the problem of shipping, which has been poorly managed by the State for the last forty years, or by taking the issue of waste by arm. Don't let us believe that for you, decentralization and the notion of autonomy would be part of the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u22	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u23	Mr President, you are asking me first of all about decentralisation in general. I would like to remind you that the next constitutional review contains important advances in this area "to provide communities with an unprecedented capacity for differentiation, an ability to adapt rules to territories." The new wording of Article 72 will allow the legislator to give additional powers to certain municipalities, departments or regions, without, however, changing the common basis of competence of all communities in the same category. It will also allow these communities, upon empowerment, to modulate the exercise of their own competencies by adapting national standards to the needs of the field. That is the meaning of what the President calls the girondin pact. For Corsica, as the President of the Republic has said, staying in France does not mean losing one's soul or abandoning its specificities. That is why the territorial community of Corsica will be mentioned in the Constitution; It will be constitutionalised. You also know that the community of Corsica may be empowered by law or regulation to adapt the rules governing the exercise of its powers, without such adaptations necessarily having a limited purpose. As you know, Corsica also has very broad skills, the scope of which has steadily increased since 1982. The State has drawn the consequences, as evidenced by the transfers of resources and personnel that have accompanied this decentralization whenever necessary. As for the examples that you cite as calling for reorganisations, in the field of sport, culture, or support for agriculture, they must be examined calmly, in the framework of the joint working sessions. It is not for Corsica to question the State, nor for the State to question Corsica; We must work together to achieve the objective of the development of Corsica in the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u24	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor to raise her question, No. 312, on the revitalization of industry, which is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u25	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to ask you about the Government's policy for the benefit of our companies, particularly the industrial sector. For France, industry is a solid economic base and a factor of territorial dynamism. The three million people she employs gain economic stability through their work. Our industry has experienced some decline in recent years. Fortunately, competitiveness is gradually starting to return to the aeronautics and automotive sectors. In my constituency of Indre-et-Loire, some companies such as Michelin or Tupperware have experienced or are experiencing more difficult situations: Tupperware has just closed down by licensing more than 200 people. To grow our businesses is to develop employment opportunities and strengthen the attractiveness of our territories. Several measures are already encouraging the dynamism of the industrial sector. Others will also benefit from it: the law for the growth and transformation of enterprises, but also the law for the reform of apprenticeship and vocational training, without omitting the mobility law which must find solutions to facilitate access to employment. I am thinking in particular of the last kilometre, which is more problematic in rural areas than in cities. It is essential to support our local economic fabric. My question is: What measures are you going to implement to further strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses and promote employment in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u26	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u27	Madam Member, thank you for asking this question. It relates to a subject that is of great interest to us: the industry and its dynamism. To have a powerful, prosperous, radiant economy, it is essential to maintain a strong industry: one sees it all over the world, in all geographical areas. After years of erosion of our industry, it was therefore urgent to straighten the bar. We have started to work in depth on this, with measures to restore the competitiveness of businesses. You recalled, in tax matters, the fundamental transformation of last year's corporate tax measures, the transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – into lower expenses, and the sustainability of the research tax credit. We are continuing this work with skill-related measures. On this point, Muriel Pénicaud is preparing important provisions on vocational training and apprenticeship, which are the key to success for our companies. That's how they can grow up. In addition, the National Industry Council was reconfigured by the Prime Minister. Together with Bruno Le Maire, we are mobilizing to encourage the industrial sectors to work collectively within the framework of this body: these are very concrete projects, involving the leaders of the sector and all the SMEs in their value chain, with a leadership provided by the industrialists themselves. In this context, we also want to anticipate the technological changes to which the sectors must prepare, through collective work around the industry of the future. Finally, we want to pull SMEs up, help them grow to become ITEs. To this end, we support innovative projects, particularly in the area of breaking innovation. Specific budgetary resources are thus foreseen to prepare the industry for the challenges of the future. Finally, a comprehensive accompanying programme has been put in place to help SMEs accelerate their exports. For this, I inaugurated a few weeks ago, at the Hanover fair, the banner of the French Fab, which must help them to conquer proudly market shares internationally.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u28	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I think it is also important to accompany and value the territories. In particular, jobseekers should be assisted by directing them to appropriate training. As you have said, skills are essential: it is therefore important that the support structures for employment are aware of the measures you are taking in order to direct jobseekers towards these occupations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u30	The next item is the question by Mr Guillaume Peltier, No. 316, on the Carrier plant in Romorantin-Lanthenay.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u31	Madam Secretary of State, before the national representation, I would like to speak to you about the dramatic situation in which 88 employees in my constituency, in Romorantin, in the Loir-et-Cher, are living, and which reflects the industrial downgrading that our country is experiencing. On 17 April last, the works council of Carrier, which is a subsidiary of the US conglomerate UTC and manufactures refrigerated windows for large distribution, decided unilaterally, without consulting local elected officials or parliamentarians, to close the plant in Romorantin. Everyone then questioned the reasons for this sudden closure. Was it due to problems of profitability of the plant itself? No, because the Romorantin site generates 1 million euros in net profits in 2017. Was it due, more broadly, to a problem of profitability of the UTC group at the global level? No, because this group made €5 billion in net profits in 2017. Was it, then, due to a problem of employee competence? No, because in the Loir-et-Cher and throughout the Centre-Val-de-Loire region, everyone agrees to recognize the remarkable know-how and competence of the employees of the Romorantin site. The real reason, alas, is well known: it is the mad race for king money and immediate profits. The consequences are dramatic: 88 employees lose their jobs, 88 families are plunged into distress. They are filled with legitimate anger. My questions are simple and concrete. First, is the Government ready to help us find a new owner at the Romorantin site, which is solid and healthy? Secondly, what will you do to force the Carrier Group to repay all the sums it has collected under the CICE? When a company relocates so suddenly, without there being any basis for this decision, it should repay all the aid it has received, as the aid has been paid by the French taxpayers. Thirdly, what do you intend to do to allow us to accompany the conversion and training of the 88 employees of Romorantin with dignity? In a word, what do you intend to do to help us fight against the dreadfully dangerous financialization of the economy, in order to restore the only capitalism that is worth it, popular capitalism?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u33	Mr President, you are calling my attention to the closure of the Carrier plant in Romorantin. As you said, the decision to close this site by the summer is indeed far-reaching: 88 jobs are affected. It is all the more regrettable that the Government is actively mobilizing to promote the competitiveness of our industry. That is why the leaders of UTC France have been asked to make every effort to find a solution to take over or transform the site. Several expressions of interest have already been identified. Be assured, honourable Member, that the government services are fully mobilized: the interdepartmental delegate for corporate restructuring has already met with the leaders of the group. All options must be seriously explored to preserve the site's industrial activity. In addition, the Government is particularly concerned about the introduction of accompanying measures to encourage the rapid return of employees to employment, particularly in terms of reclassification and training. The UTC France Group will also have to scrupulously comply with its obligations regarding the revitalization of this territory, which is strongly affected by the consequences of industrial change. Be assured, honourable Member, that I will be particularly careful to ensure that every effort is made to ensure that this closure project is carried out in the most responsible manner possible. I will also ensure that the site's conversion solutions effectively support initiatives that create value and jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u34	Mr Guillaume Peltier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u35	The Secretary of State, Carrier and the UTC Group received state aid from the CICE. Their brutal and inappropriate decision makes it necessary to repay the aid. It is a strong, legitimate and just demand not only for local elected officials and parliamentarians, but also for employees and trade union representatives. This is a matter of justice: these sums must be repaid and passed on to employees with a view to their reclassification. Can you tell us whether you intend, firmly, to grant this request, which is in accordance with the ideal of justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u36	Madam Secretary of State, you do not wish to speak again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u37	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor to put his question, No. 330, on the plan for the revitalization of the mining basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u38	Madam Secretary of State, the plan to revitalize the mining basin voted last December appears to be obvious, as this territory has been the victim of policies to let go for so many decades. Everyone agrees that it would be disastrous and inexcusable if this plan did not produce the expected effects. We were struck, however, by the lack of a comprehensive vision of the State when this mechanism was put in place. We have the impression that it is only a sprinkle of credits to help the town halls affected by their socialist management! This could cause double injustice. The first is the unequal treatment of municipalities: the first decisions have in fact highlighted the opacity of the selection criteria. To take an example, the municipality of Bruay-la-Buissière, the canton's capital, located in my constituency, whose city centre is devastated, is totally ignored by the programme "Action coeur de ville". The absence of a response from the Minister for Territorial Cohesion to the questions asked by parliamentarians on this subject speaks volumes. The second injustice directly affects businesses. Newly established companies benefit from the tax exemptions linked to the free zone status, while earlier established companies are not entitled to tax exemptions. Yet the latter have not demerited, as they have managed to survive or even develop under the difficult conditions that justified the revitalization plan. Moreover, companies that are the subject of a transfer or extension of activity cannot benefit from the exemptions, which restricts investments – although the objective of the plan is to promote them. Madam Secretary of State, the economic revitalization of this territory, which has more than 1 million inhabitants, must be a priority for the public authorities. What measures do you intend to take to enable the economic fabric of this area to develop without distorting competition between new and old companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u40	Mr President, the Nord-Pas-de-Calais mining basin is an emblematic territory whose mining activity has enabled the national territory to develop. The cessation of coal activity has had serious economic and social consequences in this territory. The State and local authorities, together with the inhabitants and businesses, have been seeking for several years to launch a new dynamic in this territory: its inclusion in the world heritage of humanity by UNESCO is an important step in this. Through the commitment for the renewal of the Nord-Pas-de-Calais mining basin signed in March 2017, the State and local and regional authorities are strengthening the capacity to create and develop projects based on the territorial assets. Strong commitments have been made and will be fulfilled: to renovate 23,000 housing units, to develop the care offer with the new hospital in Lens, to greatly improve mobility, to speed up soil remediation. Beyond these essential structural investments, a new economic dynamic must also be launched in order for employment to progress and poverty to decline sustainably in the mining basin. Although its industrial conversion is still incomplete, this territory has advantages thanks to the very high-speed network. It also has innovative companies in plastics and logistics. These assets must be valued. The so-called "urban basins to be boosted" scheme provides tax exemptions for businesses created since January 1, 2018 in 150 municipalities in the mining basin. Its establishment is a very strong signal from the State vis-à-vis the inhabitants and economic actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u41	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u42	Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State, but you haven't really answered my question! Let's take an example: a new bakery is set up in front of an already active bakery. The former will benefit from tax exemptions, and will be able to sell its products at prices below those charged by the latter. This is how existing trade is penalized by facing unfair competition. Some are affected to the point of being put in liquidation! This phenomenon risks, at the limit, making the gain of this measure completely null and void. The "urban basins to be reinvigorated" scheme had a good intention: we supported it in its examination in Parliament. But its perverse effects had not been anticipated: it is on this point that I draw your attention. As you said, the mining basin has many assets – for example, the Louvre-Lens, which is at the heart of this territory. We believe that these assets should be used, by developing the art professions through the installation of channels. Given the unemployment rate in the mining basin, it is urgent. The State must take all necessary measures to combat this unemployment by enabling the mining basin to develop. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again, since we have tabled a bill to extend the tax exemption to companies already located in the mining basin, which – I repeat – are currently facing unfair competition. If I ask you this question, Madam Secretary of State, it is because I have been questioned on this point by many traders and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u43	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to raise her question, No. 318 on the Louis Jaillon hospital in Saint-Claude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u44	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the future of the Louis Jaillon hospital in Saint-Claude in the Jura, about the closure of her maternity service and about the dismantling of her surgical unit, replaced by an outpatient surgery service. Last year, this maternity service saw 320 births. But five years ago, he saw 500! This means that the planned closure of this service has been organized over the years. Because there were not enough doctors, the follow-up of the parturients was done over the water: they never had the same medical contact. This decision is absolutely not adapted to the problems of the Jura. The conditions of travel in the mountains should be taken into account: patients are forced to travel for two hours to the Lons-le-Saunier hospital, which is, you will agree, a danger for the parturients. The consequences for public health are therefore dramatic – talk to Jurassians! Beyond the risks involved, I wonder about the cost of these many transfers and about the over-mobilization of the department's relief services – of course, I know it's not the same budget and it's not the same funding. In addition, the hospital in Saint-Claude represents 380 jobs and is positioned as the city's first employer. It is therefore an entire part of the economy of this territory that is weakened by this closure. Elected from the ground, I am no longer aware of the need to ensure the continuity of local public services in rural areas, and I ask you to provide us with an individualised and adapted solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u45	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u46	Madam Member, I apologize to Minister Agnès Buzyn, who asked me to send you the following answer. You drew his attention to the future of the Louis Jaillon Hospital in Saint-Claude, following the reorganization of its services, and to its place in the care offer of the Haut-Jura. This institution, more generally the institutions of Jura Sud, have for many years been facing a loss of medical attractiveness which weakens certain activities; This results in a very deteriorating financial situation which prevents any investment. She would like to point out that the hospitals in the Jura have received almost 5 million financial aid in 2017 alone, of which almost 2 million were for the only Louis Jaillon hospital. It was imperative to rethink the organisation of care in the Jura to get out of this impasse. The work resulted in a comprehensive reorganization, which was publicly presented on 27 October and has since been largely initiated. This new organization preserves services at each hospital site according to principles of specialization and gradation of care. In particular with regard to the Saint-Claude hospital centre, this is reflected in the maintenance of the emergency department, the heavy dialysis centre and an outpatient surgery activity two days a week as part of a public territorial team with the hospital centre of Lons-le-Saunier, a team that will soon be open to the liberal practitioners of the clinic of Lons-le-Saunier. Maternity, on the other hand, is transformed into a perinatal and paediatric community centre, which allows patients to receive antenatal and postnatal consultations; This centre, placed under the triple sign of proximity, perinatality and paediatrics, welcomes women and children in Saint-Claude, but also in Morez and soon in Champagnole. Furthermore, the possibility of performing chemotherapy as an associated site and the authorization to implement a magnetic resonance imaging activity have been carried out by the regional health agency of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté and will soon have to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u47	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u48	I would like to recall that I have sent three letters to Mrs Buzyn concerning the future of St.Claude's Hospital: I have received two acknowledgements of receipt, which is quite classic, but no explanation on the substance. She refers in her response to a loss of medical attractiveness. Of which, but it is all local hospitals, all rural hospitals – at least those that do not operate with a university hospital – that are affected by the loss of medical attractiveness. I think this is a subject that the Ministry of Health must be able to deal with because even if the response is of varying urgency, the whole territory is concerned, with the same consequences everywhere, namely closures of services. But frankly, can we consider that an outpatient surgery service open two days a week will retain attractiveness? This means, at a time of two or three years, an already announced closure. Here's the drama. For the time being, we are certainly in a position of waiting, but this cannot be satisfactory for the future. With regard to maternity, when taking account of transport delays on snow-covered or ice-covered roads in winter, it appears that the reorganization creates a real danger for the parturients. I do not understand how we can invoke today the existence of the advanced post-natal center at the hospital of Saint-Claude: there was a real know-how in the midwives' team, and it is really a shame to have broken this dynamic. The regional health plan is not acceptable as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u49	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to put his question, No. 327, concerning the health and social vocation of the Lozère.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u50	I'm a member of parliament for the Lozère, and I'm used to being offensive enough when I ask questions, especially when I don't have answers like I've been doing for some time. I would like to raise two issues today. The first is the EHPAD – a residential institution for dependent elderly people – of Auroux, a small reception structure that the regional health agency has mismanaged and whose 12 beds are being removed to transfer them to Langogne and Luc as part of a reorganization. But if we do this, it could lead very quickly to the closure of this EHPAD. I've been asking for it for several months: who mismanaged this institution within the state services and why? Second fundamental subject: the health and social vocation of the Lozère. This department made the choice, sixty years ago, to accommodate people with disabilities. We have all the answers today, from ESAT – institutions and services of help through work – to MAS – specialized reception houses – to ITEP – therapeutic, educational and pedagogical institutes – to IMPRO – medical and professional institutes – to homes of life, etc. We have detailed answers adapted to all forms of disability. This is the vocation of our department, born of the will of Abbé Oziol and then of Dr Jacques Blanc, former deputy of Lozère. Today, we are told, "You have too many beds. They will have to be redeployed [in the Gard, in the Hérault... where do I still know?] " I do not accept it, I say it very clearly. I will not compromise on this vocation. And it is not because health and social care is the first employer in the Lozère, but because we have great hospitality, very specialized teams and we can meet all the needs. The State must assume its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u51	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u52	Mr President, I would like to convey to you the reply of Minister Agnès Buzyn. You have drawn his attention to the situation of the medical-social offer in the department of Lozère, in particular that of the accommodation establishment for the elderly dependent of Auroux. The Government is fully aware of the specificities of this mountain department and its demographic context. Under the auspices of the regional health agency of Occitanie and the departmental council of the Lozère, a reflection is currently being conducted to change this offer. A meeting is planned at the Ministry of Solidarity and Health with the ARS of Occitanie, the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy, the departmental council and the parliamentarians of the Lozère on 11 June in order to finalize the roadmap for this experiment. As regards the special situation of the EHPAD d'Auroux, located in a commune in the north-east of the Lozère, it is recalled that this self-governing 35-bed public establishment faces major management difficulties which its board of directors cannot ignore. In addition to these difficulties, which result in the institution's inability to provide stable leadership, the accommodation conditions offered for the elderly are no longer acceptable: there is only one shower per floor for approximately sixteen residents. In view of this situation, the ARS of Occitanie provided financial support for the establishment's upgrading to 830000 euros. A reflection is also under way on the cooperation and complementarity of the various housing establishments for dependent elderly people in this area of life – notably with the municipalities of Langogne and Luc – and on the joint investments to be made collectively in order to better meet the needs of the elderly. The integration of EHPADs, including that of Auroux, into the hospital group of Lozerois territory, whose hospital centre in Mende is the supporting institution, is likely to ensure a more stable governance of these establishments and their inclusion in the territorial health project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u53	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u54	First of all, I make it clear that they say "Lozerian" and not "Lozerois". Secondly, we chose to set up twenty-seven EHPADs in Lozère, which mesh the entire territory. Renovating or even removing a small structure may degrade this proximity response for the elderly. With regard to the health and social vocation of the Lozère, I have certainly noted that a meeting is scheduled for 11 June, but I repeat it and I hear that you are passing the message: there will be a casus belli if only one bed for disabled people leaves this department. We care about the choice made sixty years ago. We have all the appropriate answers and it is out of the question that the Government, for reasons of new doctrine – proximity, all-inclusion... – calls into question the health and social vocation of this department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u55	Mr Yves Jégo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 329, concerning the blockage of the authorities of the hospital group in the southern part of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u56	My question is for the Minister of Health. It concerns the hospital centre of the south Seine-et-Marne, born of the desire to group the hospital centres Montereau, Fontainebleau and Nemours. We have made an important rationalization effort, showing that the territories can organize themselves in terms of health. My question relates to the application of the law providing for the establishment of territorial hospital groups since, a few months after merging the three hospitals mentioned above, we had the unpleasant surprise to find that the regional health agency, in disregard of the opinion of the health professionals and that of the local elected representatives called to pronounce itself, had taken the decision to have the hospital group of the south Seine-et-Marne piloted by the Melun hospital, which had become a reference hospital. This would have almost the value of case law at national level since this is the only case where the smallest hospital by size, number of doctors and activity, the largest pilot, in this case the hospital centre of the south Seine-et-Marne. The latter is today, if we exclude the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, the seventh hospital centre in Île-de-France, and obviously much more important by its staff and by its activity than that of Melun. This oukase of course provoked a strong protest and led to the opening of a procedure before the administrative court to challenge an incomprehensible decision, taken alone by the director of the regional health agency and, above all, led to a blockage which today makes it impossible to cooperate because the assembly that should support it is based on a wrong decision. Will this anomaly continue? What is the Government's view of this dysfunction with regard to hospital groups in the territory? Through you, Madam Secretary of State, I plead with the Minister of Health that all actors should be gathered around a table, at government level, to try to get out of a situation which is of course detrimental to the proper functioning of the hospital centres but also to the quality of the care provided to the inhabitants of the south Seine-et-Marne. My question therefore contains a call for mediation, which I am sure the Government will not be insensitive to.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u57	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u58	Mr President, the establishment of the hospital group in the southern part of the country was carried out in the framework of a wide-ranging regional consultation involving the Île-de-France branch of the Fédération hospitalière de France and public health institutions. The territorial coherence of the grouping was not contested either by the Executive Boards, by the Medical Establishment Commissions, or by the Nursing, Rehabilitation and Medical Technical Commissions, all of which gave an opinion in favour of the constitutive agreement of the grouping. It is on the designation of the support institution that the disagreements arose, as you indicate, both on the side of the hospital centres of Fontainebleau, Montereau and Nemours and on the side of the hospital centre of Melun. The Regional Health Agency has encouraged the supervisory councils to reach agreement on the choice of the support facility, and it is only in the absence of agreement that it has designated the Melun Hospital, then the first facility in the territory. This decision was taken into account in particular the public-private health project around the hospital group Sud Île-de-France, born from the merger, on 1 January 2017, of the hospitals of Melun and Brie-Comte-Robert. This will strengthen the medical attractiveness of the group, which will benefit the Sud Seine-et-Marne hospital centre whose vacancy rate is critical and will have to find a solution within the framework of the group. Mr President, I have heard your call for mediation, which I will certainly pass on to Mrs Agnès Buzyn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u59	Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u60	Madam Secretary of State, for sitting on the benches of the Government, I know how difficult it is to answer when the answer is dictated by the services of a ministry other than hers. So I can't blame you for having made a multitude of mistakes during yours, or chained falsehoods: you are not personally targeted in my reply. It is wrong to say that Melun's hospital is the first in the sector: the first is that of the south Seine-et-Marne. It is totally wrong to say that there would be a critical problem for doctors within the latter: this is not true. And it is equally wrong to claim that the public-private alliance in Melun will be successful: it will indeed face a difficulty related to the private partner, who is currently answering questions in the courts related to management difficulties. You are, of course, the Secretary of State, not concerned with all this. However, I reiterate my request to you, so that it is well understood: a meeting of all the actors must be organised at the Ministry of Health, because they will then find a solution. I would like to recall that the mayor of Fontainebleau, who is also president of the Hospital Federation of France, is following this matter closely. We need to get out of it from the top: I therefore appeal, through my question, to the mediation of the Government. I am sure, Madam Secretary of State, that you will be able to relay this call remarkably to your colleague Mrs Buzyn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u61	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to put her question, No 299, on the bear in Ariège.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u62	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, my question concerns the presence of the bear in the Pyrenees. As you know, summer attacks were particularly deadly in 2017: they caused a strong emotion, and the announcement of the reintroduction of two bears in autumn did not ease these tensions. Indeed, the problems that arose in 2017 have not been resolved. I come back to this question on various facts that have occurred in recent weeks. Invited to the general assembly of the Ariège hunters' federation on 28 April, in the presence of its president and the president of the national federation, I would have liked to be able to repeat Walter Spanghero's words about this meeting: "The match was virile but correct." Unfortunately, if the exchanges were indeed virile, they were not correct, and it is regrettable: I am not talking about the hunters present in the room but about the statements made by the presidents who, in my view, were hateful and demagogic, since they called for violence. An example: "If you get pissed off by gugusses, break their mouths." For me, far from being representative of the majority of hunters, this is only the caricature of the worst of what can be imagined to be heard on such occasions, like the slogan "We are at home", which has been scanned. On 5 May a meeting of environmental associations was planned in La Bastide de Sérou to draw up an environmental report – unfortunately I could not participate. At the call of anti-bear associations, of the departmental federation of hunters, of agricultural unions such as the National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions and the National Circle of Young Farmers, 750 people protested against this meeting in which they saw a provocation of Zadist ecologists. Hate speech, threats, that's what we heard, at the same time that freedom of assembly was being called into question since a large cordon of CRS could not prevent the aggression of two participants. On 10 May, the departmental federation of hunters called for a parade in Saint-Girons to demand respect for the rule of law: such a slogan could have led to a smile if the situation was not so serious. Secretary of State, the level of tension and tension requires a strong sign from the Government. In concrete terms, what solutions can you bring so that the bear's presence in the Pyrenees and the introduction of two new animals will be better?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u63	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u64	Madam Member, thank you for your question. The government is of course aware of the questions raised by the bear's presence, particularly in three departments: yours, Ariège, but also the Haute-Garonne and the Hautes-Pyrénées. The objective of Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, – since, as you know, he is the one who follows this issue personally – has always been to preserve breeding and pastoralism while respecting our European and international commitments, the bear being a strictly protected species. In order to bring about concrete solutions, a dialogue was initiated by the Prefect of Ariège on the question of damage: it will build on the audit work carried out by the inspection services of the ministries of the environment and of course of agriculture. An assessment of the situation and the difficulties identified on the ground should lead to recommendations to improve cohabitation. This work will also provide an overall assessment of pastoralism and the actions of the plan to support the mountain economy set up in 2006 during the previous bear reintroductions. In addition, the determining characteristics of bear attack outbreaks and the distribution and movement of ursids are currently being studied jointly by the National Museum of Natural History, of which there is no need to recall here the scientific authority in this area, and the National Office for Hunting and Wildlife, whose results will be known, Madam Member, within eighteen months. At the same time, several actions have been taken to relieve the pastoralists – you mentioned their situation – in the event of attacks in the coming months: the Government has thus decided to strengthen the means of the Pyrenean Pastoral Church, which has been able to recruit two additional shepherds who will be present this summer in the summer in order to help the twelve pastoral groups concerned by the attacks. In addition, aid for the financing of protective measures, in areas where the bear has been present for two years, also allows for the progressive development of a sustainable system for the protection of domestic animals. The Minister of State, Nicolas Hulot, also signed last week an action plan "Brown Bear 2018-2028". The plan includes a set of mechanisms to ensure that human activities, livestock and also tourism, hunting or forest management are compatible with the presence of the bear. The bear's heritage dimension is now recognized and tourism is beginning to emerge. In any event, consultation with all actors must of course continue. Finally, with regard to the specific question of the reintroduction of two bears in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, this project must be placed in a context both of shared management with Spain and Andorra, and of particular urgency to safeguard the western core where the bear has always been present. The Prefect of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, Member of the Commission, is tasked to engage in a dialogue with local actors in order to identify the conditions for the success of such a strengthening and the accompanying measures necessary for pastoralism. The office of Nicolas Hulot is of course at the disposal of all actors on the ground, elected representatives and parliamentarians on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u65	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u66	Mr Secretary of State, if I thank you for this information, maintaining the bear in the Pyrenees requires, as you know, financial and human resources as well as a genuine political will to ensure the coexistence of agro-pastoralism and the bear. Despite everything you have just told us, the resources currently being put in place remain largely inadequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u67	The next speaker is Mr Benoit Simian, to put his question, No. 314, concerning the situation of the building "Le Signal" in Soulac-sur-Mer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u68	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, my question concerns the situation of the building "Le Signal" located in the commune of Soulac-sur-Mer in Gironde. Built 200 metres from the coast in 1967, this four-storey building, on the edge of the collapse, has now become the sad symbol of a French coastline ravaged by rising waters. As a result of the 2013-2014 winter storms, which caused a severe erosion, the building – which is now only ten metres from the sea – was the subject of a municipal evacuation order and a ban on occupation. Faced with the risk of collapse, its seventy-five co-owners were forced to evacuate the site. After several appeals, the latter decided to refer the matter to the Council of State in order to determine whether the building threatened by erosion on a dune coast could be eligible for compensation from the Fund for the prevention of major natural risks, known as the Barnier funds. On 6 April last, the Constitutional Council rejected the priority question of constitutionality submitted by these co-owners contesting the conformity with the Constitution of the article of the Environmental Code which does not include dune erosion in the list of phenomena justifying access to the Barnier fund. The Council of State must now decide on the merits in order to determine whether they will be entitled to such compensation. The evolution of the coast line is a major phenomenon that needs to be anticipated. The work done in collaboration with the Department's departments to draft a bill, which will anticipate and take into account this erosion phenomenon throughout the country, is in the right direction. With regard to the specific case of the "Le Signal" building, there is now an urgent need, both socially and ecologically: I will have the opportunity to make a proposal to compensate the owners who have been victims of the dune erosion during the consideration of the housing bill, which is being held this week in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr Secretary of State, my question is simple: in view of this twofold urgency, social and ecological, what actions do you intend to take to ensure that this dossier finds a favourable solution and that the owners concerned receive fair compensation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u69	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u70	Mr President, you were right to recall the global context linked to climate change and the decline in the coast line, which today affects more than 20% of our coastlines: it is a natural phenomenon that is increasingly prevalent and that we have to deal with, both in metropolitan France and overseas. I was a few days ago with the President of the Republic in the Pacific: the effects of these phenomena are just as impressive. Moreover, the current rise in sea level, due to climate change, could lead – as you said, honourable Member – to the acceleration of coastal erosion processes, even as land pressure on the coast continues to grow and its artificialization is growing. It is therefore essential both to anticipate this phenomenon and to allow the transition of the littoral territories: it is a subject that finds an important echo today through several parliamentary initiatives, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. I welcome in this regard, Mr.Member, your personal involvement, since your election in June 2017, on these issues on which you have indeed been a relay and an important voice. My responsible minister, the Minister of State, Mr. Nicolas Hulot, is particularly committed to ensuring that a comprehensive legislative solution – we insist on the idea of comprehensiveness – can be completed in order to equip our littoral territories with appropriate and resilient tools. More specifically with regard to the "Le Signal" building, the Constitutional Council ruled on 6 April last on the question submitted by the owners: it confirmed that the receding of the coast line is not in the cases eligible for expropriation for major natural risks. Ultimately, there are currently no tools available for this type of case. However, in view of the urgency of the situation that you have recalled, Mr. Member, the Government strongly encourages, in the context of the legislative work that I have just mentioned, the development of a solution to address the difficulties faced by the owners. It is, for us and for you, inconceivable to let the situation deteriorate, at the risk of the building collapsing. My colleague Brune Poirson, who is also very committed to this issue, is listening to these matters: she has already received you, Mr. It will soon receive you again, as well as all the actors involved on this issue, in order to examine how to move forward collectively and what global solution to propose, in this matter of course but also in all cases that might arise in the future. The prefect of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region and the prefect of the department of Gironde remain fully mobilized on this sensitive issue and I know that they are in regular contact with our services and Mrs Poirson's cabinet. That, honourable Member, is what I could say in a few words on this matter this morning, knowing that the bill you have mentioned will occupy Parliament in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u71	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u72	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer and I welcome your proposals for amicable solutions which I hope can be found with your services. I stress once again the dual urgency, social and economic, in the case of the building "Le Signal", given the distress of the families, of the assets but also of pensioners who have invested their savings, and the fact that the building is friendly. That this building collapses in the sea would be an ecological disaster, with significant economic repercussions for this seaside resort. So I really call attention: we need to find a solution before next winter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u73	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry, to put his question, No. 319 on the circular and ecological economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u74	Mr Secretary of State, a few minutes ago, in this House, it was a question of industrial decommissioning. For my part, I would like to point out that some companies in our country have decided to diversify their activities by valuing their co-products with a triple objective: to reduce costs, to better protect the environment through the economic model of the circular economy and to generate new sources of turnover. The dynamics and structuring of the circular economy are one of the main strategic challenges of this century because it enables societies and economies to become sustainable and sustainable. Territories are organized around businesses, communities and universities to create new jobs within a virtuous circle: this is especially the case – you probably know the approach – from Green Valley to Epinal. This ecosystem aims to develop new activities and to create new jobs in the eco-materials and eco-construction segment within the framework of the wood industry: this concrete approach is in my view one of the most successful approaches to industrial and territorial ecology in France. It catalyzes entrepreneurial ideas through the prism of mutualization as well as the profession of accompaniment of future projects. The establishment of the Pavatex production unit, the European leader in the manufacture of insulation wood wool, alongside Norske Skog Golbey, the European newsprint leader, has led to the sharing of equipment, job creation and cost reduction, always in the interests of greater respect for the environment. Such results are the result of industrial and strategic choices, but also of investments, necessary on the one hand to sustain several thousand jobs on French territory, on the other hand, and above all, to enable the reindustrialization of certain departments, including the Vosges department. These initiatives should be valued and encouraged, which demonstrate that the sites in France are profitable and that the French economic model, thanks to this dynamic of circular economy, is relevant. My question, or rather my wish, or my inquiry, concerns the attitude and role of the State. It must be able to understand these industrial projects and to support innovative companies, by removing unnecessary bureaucracy, by remedying administrative complexity and delays, and by banning the over-transposition of European directives, particularly in environmental matters. Mr Secretary of State, how, beyond the road map, do you intend to give concrete support to these companies and these choices for the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u75	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u76	I thank you, Mr President, for your interest in these questions which are absolutely fundamental to the transformation of our economy. As a former president of the department and former mayor, I obviously share your enthusiasm for the opportunities that this creates in our territories, especially in rural areas. On April 23, the Prime Minister, Mr.Édouard Philippe, and my colleague Brune Poirson, travelling to a SEB plant in another rural area, La Mayenne, unveiled the fifty measures of the road map for the circular economy – called, in our jargon, "FREC" – which is a key project for the ecological transition and for the economy. A result of several months of work and extensive consultation, this roadmap aims to find concrete and operational solutions to better produce, consume and manage our waste, aimed at all stakeholders: citizens, businesses and local and regional authorities. Moving out of the linear production model is one of the main objectives of the roadmap. Among the most important provisions are the increase in the incorporation of raw materials from recycling into products, the setting of re-use, reuse and repair targets for producers' extended-responsibility sectors, or the provision of products collected at the disposal of social and solidarity economy actors, free of charge. Several measures of the roadmap respond directly to the question you are asking. I am thinking in particular of the one aimed at changing certain REP sectors in order to improve their functioning. For example, with regard to the "paper" REP sector you mentioned, the aim is to change the provision on contribution in kind to limit it to press publications printed on recycled paper and to provide that its product is used for general communication campaigns on the prevention, selective sorting and recycling of all products. It was a measure that was expected. Other examples are the measure to facilitate the removal of waste status or the measure to support the circular economy through dedicated financing. Finally, with regard to industrial and territorial ecology – "EIT" in our jargon – a measure has been taken to strengthen synergies between companies. The objectives are many: to promote industrial and territorial ecology in regional schemes for regions which wish to do so: in the context of decentralization, it is in fact up to them to seize the subject; accelerate the implementation of resource exchanges – materials, equipment, services, consumables – dematerialized and accessible to all; establish a national access point to data from the circular economy. Beyond the roadmap, our ministry continues its role of accompaniment and valorisation of actors, notably through the "Enterprises and Environment" awards, which you know well, since it is in this capacity that, if my information is correct, the project "The Green Valley", which you cited, received in 2014 the grand prize in the category "Circular Economy". The support of these companies in a circular economy approach is also provided by the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management, ADEME, via the "TPE and winning SMEs on all costs! The Commission's proposal for a Directive on the protection of the environment from harmful effects on the environment, which is part of the road map and aimed at rationalising the consumption of resources by enterprises. This device is popular and works well; This will be discussed at the time of consideration of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u77	The speaking time on the question has expired. We therefore turn to the next question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u78	I'm sorry, Mr. Viry: I've been talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u79	Mr Didier Quentin has the floor to raise his question, No. 320, concerning the application of the Littoral Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u80	Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to some of the consequences of the Coastal Development, Protection and Development Act, known as the Littoral Act. I am quick to say that I have always been a strong advocate of this law, especially during the years I was president of the Coastal Conservatory between 2002 and 2008. However, it must be noted that too strict an application of his letter – more than his spirit – leads to unfortunate situations for many mayors. In fact, some State departments are very restrictive in their interpretation of the law, even though several local planning plans have been revised in order to better integrate legal requirements. This results in disputes between local authorities and the deconcentrated services of the State. For example, the city of Royan, of which I was the mayor, faces two difficulties related to too strict application of the Littoral law, although it is a matter of meeting objectives of general interest: the requalification of an old landfill on a photovoltaic farm and the creation of a reception area for Travellers several kilometres from the coast line. On the island of Oléron, a photovoltaic park can only be created in continuity with an existing agglomeration or village, as photovoltaic parks do not benefit from derogation provisions, unlike wind projects, which can be based on article L. 121-12 of the Urban Planning Code. The services of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition have recently been seized by the Prefect of Charente-Maritime on this issue. Finally, in order to allow for the densification of hamlets and villages in retro-littoral areas, often several kilometres or even tens of kilometres from the coast line, constructions in "deep teeth" should be allowed, as proposed by the Senate. These blockages are not satisfactory either for local authorities or for the State, in particular because of the costs of litigation and the delays accumulated in the construction of equipment which are of general interest and are often in line with government policies. That is why I would be grateful if you, Secretary of State, could tell me what steps you intend to take to better address these issues, which are part of sustainable development, without, of course, questioning the spirit of the Littoral Act, which was primarily to avoid the "concreteization" – if I may say so – of our coasts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u81	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u82	Thank you for your question, Congressman. We had the opportunity to discuss the matter in your constituency and in your beautiful town of Royan a few months ago. We were talking about it now with Mr Simian: at a time when the effects of climate change are forcing us to ensure a better resilience of the coastal territories, it is essential to reaffirm that the Littoral law retains its relevance; That is what you have done twice, and I thank you for that. This law has laid down the bases on which, for more than thirty years, not only the fight against the artificialisation of coastal territories – that is, "concreteisation" – but also the protection of natural spaces. It strikes a good balance between urban development, which is very dynamic because of the attractiveness of these territories, and the protection of coastal spaces. Thirty years after the passage of the law, the stake remains high. You know this, since you are an elected member of the coast: on the latter, the population density is 2.5 times higher than the national metropolitan average; The increase in soil artificialization was still 2.7 times greater between 2000 and 2006 than in the interior. This law has made a major contribution to ensuring that the French coast retains its first-class beauty and tourist attraction. Nevertheless, it is regularly criticized by a number of actors. Parliamentarians would like to relax it in order to facilitate and develop urbanization. While there is no question for the Government to reconsider the fundamentals of the law, to which we are, as you have pointed out, all very attached, and which also contribute to the Head of State's commitment to halting the artificialization of the soil, we have also identified a number of absurdities on the coast, inter alia related to the application of the law on access to housing and renovated urban planning, the ALUR law. We are listening to national representation to remedy this. You have cited an example, which I shall take up again: how can we, by way of derogation, install equipment of collective interest, such as solar panels, in an island environment, in order to encourage the transition to clean energies and the energy autonomy of these territories? You have given other examples. I invite you to contribute to the reflection that has been carried out in connection with, among other things, the Department of Territorial Cohesion, as part of the bill that will soon be considered. There is an issue to strengthen the role of local elected officials in law enforcement, as this would guarantee their real and sustainable ownership in the territories. In particular, such effects must be corrected, so that we can all together better defend the essential objective of protecting our coasts. The Government is at your disposal, honourable Member: we know your faithful commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u83	Mr Didier Quentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u84	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this very precise and detailed answer, as well as for the opening that you have just made. Be sure that we will all be at your side to fight against what you have not hesitated to call "absurd." So we will probably see each other very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u85	The next speaker is Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon, to put his question, No. 306, on the project for a nuclear waste storage pool in Belleville-sur-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u86	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In the heart of France lives a territory bordered by our majestic Loire, so dear to Maurice Genevoix. Its remarkable landscapes have been forged over the millennia. His geology is exceptional. Its hillsides have been worked for centuries by passionate winemakers, who breed among the best wines in the world, including the most beautiful Sauvignon in the world: the Sancerre. As incredible as it may seem, it is precisely this territory that could be chosen by EDF engineers and by the Nuclear Safety Authority, the ASN, to house a "La Hague II", i.e. a huge long-term nuclear waste storage pool. At this stage, however, no agreement has been reached on this project, which raises many questions and concerns. If EDF is to be reassuring, the inhabitants and many of the territorial leaders are not at the stage of a forged opinion. There is, of course, the attraction of job creation, which would be a short-term gain. There is also the issue of the reprocessing of nuclear waste, which must be addressed if hypocrisy is not to be allowed. But there is also the problem of safety: the project would be built on the banks of the Loire, above a groundwater table that supplies by connection a geographical area joining the Île-de-France and its millions of inhabitants. My question will be double. First, are there other sites selected at this stage and if so, what are they? Secondly, in order not to provoke the creation of a new ZAD, this time at the heart of the Berry, therefore in the heart of France, what conditions will you set for EDF and the ASN to have real and serious information and consultation before a decision is taken?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u87	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u88	Mr President, thank you for your question; As you know, I am particularly at the cutting edge, and even exposed – if I may say (Smiles) – on these issues. You're talking about a nuclear waste storage pool project that will take over from the La Hague site, as long as it reaches saturation. I confirm that there is a project in this area, but at this stage its location is not yet defined. This is in any case the position of the State and the Government. Some very technical information on a topic that is eminently so. The Permanent Group of Experts for Nuclear Reactors, which supports the Nuclear Safety Authority, underlined in 2015 the importance of EDF's planned creation – the main supplier of radioactive waste in our country – of a new pool, centralized and meeting the latest safety criteria. The national plan for the management of radioactive materials and waste, which is coming to an end – I have also announced the holding of a new public debate on the subject, which will include a reflection on the project for an industrial geological storage centre, CIGEO, in Bure – also mentions the need for such a facility to meet the needs that have been expressed. Please be aware that the regulations provide any person planning to operate a basic nuclear facility with the opportunity to request from the Nuclear Safety Authority, prior to the initiation of the corresponding creation authorization procedure, an opinion on all or part of the options that it has chosen to ensure the safety of that facility. This is what EDF did in April 2017 as part of this case. The installation is therefore in the pre-project phase. EDF will be required to select the site at the time of filing the application for creation authorization with the department's departments, scheduled for 2020. The bill will be the subject of public information and debate: it is the law. However, as we have done for the OEIG in Bure, we will ask the promoters of the project to go further than is foreseen in this area, in conjunction with all the actors and the populations concerned. In addition, the Government will be more than vigilant in meeting the security and safety criteria. However, I propose, honourable Member, that together with all the players in your constituency and EDF, we meet without delay to make a specific point on the matter. I do not know that you need information; We'll be here to accompany you. Nuclear science, a particularly delicate science, deserves a lot of transparency. We are ready, as well as EDF, to serve your territory – and of course the Sauvignon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u89	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u90	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this comprehensive, reassuring and respectful response to local elected officials and people alike. I will of course respond to your invitation, along with the local officials. Let me add, however, that the territorial economy is largely based on agriculture and in particular on viticulture, which generates a turnover of EUR 300 million per year. I would also like to highlight the plans of local elected officials to develop tourism, particularly that of the Sancerrois ranking at UNESCO, presented to the Prime Minister a few days ago during his trip to the Cher and Sancerre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u91	Thank you for closing...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u92	Finally, I would add that the Centre-Val de Loire region already hosts twelve of the fifty-eight French nuclear reactors, or 20% of the park, when its inhabitants account for less than 4% of the national population. All these elements must of course be taken into account in the decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u93	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 313, on the development of agricultural methanisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u94	For having already exchanged with you on the subject, Secretary of State, I know that agricultural methanization is of particular interest to you. In recent weeks, in Morbihan, I have met several farmers who do not regret having invested in this activity, for several reasons. By producing this renewable energy, they are in fact securing additional income; contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through the recovery of agricultural effluents; Finally, they are involved in job creation in rural areas. Despite these positive points, the objectives of the "Energy for nitrogen autonomy" plan, launched in 2013, are far from being achieved. At least two brakes explain it to me. The first is financial: the too high cost of facilities that allow biogas to be injected into the network is indeed prohibitive for projects developed by small farms, which is very regrettable because, as you know, these small production units have the advantage of being more socially acceptable. In order to cope with such a financial constraint, the only solution for these small farmers is to carry out collective projects, known as extended injection projects. And farmers are constrained by a second brake: regulation, which does not allow several identified biogas carriers to inject, under acceptable financial conditions, on a single point of the GRDF gas network. Indeed, the calculation of the gas remuneration, whose degression is indexed to the injected volume, does not allow an economic equilibrium to be achieved. The solution would be, for example, to create a tariff based on the production of each site. Secretary of State, on this issue of energy transition, we need your support. I would also like to know whether the Government is considering removing financial and regulatory barriers to allow smaller farms to produce biogas more easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u95	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u96	Thank you, honourable Member, for your interest in these questions. I do not go back to the working group, for which you have been a remarkable help, nor to the fifteen measures it has proposed, grouped into three families – regulatory simplification; strengthening and financial support; structuring and professionalisation of the sector. I come directly to the specific projects you mention. As you said, the remoteness of natural gas transmission and distribution networks may, in some cases, be a barrier to the development of an agricultural methanization project. However, different schemes already help to implement them. A project of distant methanization of natural gas networks can first benefit from the price of electricity from the combustion of biogas. This aid scheme was re-evaluated at the end of 2016. I also confirm that such a project can also benefit from the obligation to purchase the injected biomethane, if the choice is made to inject biomethane into a gas network following its transport by road, the injection plant may be pooled. In this second device, the price of biomethane is decreasing depending on the amount of gas measured at the injection point. This degression has been put in place to effectively support small biomethane production facilities as well as the most important. On the other hand, for a methanisation plant that shares an injection point, it induces a lower purchase rate than it would have been able to claim if it had had its own connection to a gas network. Sensitive to the development of methanization in the territories, which your intervention still illustrates, the Government is studying the possibility of giving a biomethane production facility a price determined from the production of each production site, measured at a location other than the injection station. These measures appear eminently technical for all our fellow citizens, but those who have embarked on a methanisation project clearly see what this is all about. I therefore welcome the measures I have mentioned. They will make it possible to continue the investments in biogas, which we need, I would remind you, in order to achieve the multiannual energy programming objectives. In fact, there is not only electricity in life: there is also gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u97	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u98	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the good news. Here I am reassured: a "blocking" point will be lifted. Farmers, both in Brittany and everywhere in France, are ready to invest in this type of experiment, in connection with local authorities and energy unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u99	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor to raise her question, No. 302, on daily mobility and the opening up of Cape Sizun.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u100	My question is to Mrs Borne, Minister for Transport. At the inauguration of the new high-speed line Paris-Rennes last July, the President of the Republic announced that he would like to work on the issue of daily mobility as a matter of priority. This theme also seems to be a priority for the Government's work. During her visit to Rennes in early January, the Minister responsible for transport presented a ten-year plan to open up the region and improve accessibility by upgrading the road network. She also announced the upcoming introduction of a mobility orientation bill. At the beginning of May, Mrs Borne visited Brittany again, in response to the invitation of the President of the region, Mr Loig Chesnais-Girard, in order to evoke the pact of accessibility of Brittany, which aims to unblock the Great West. It seems that the Minister, guided by the desire to improve the accessibility of the whole of Breton territory, wishes to sign this pact by this summer. The negotiations under way concern the problems of "long distance" accessibility, in order to promote the attractiveness and visibility of Brittany, as well as the accessibility of everyday life. I would therefore like to ask the Government about the potential levers available to it to help de-enclave the peri-urban and rural territories, such as Cape Sizun and the country of Douarnenez, located in my constituency. For the workers or for the pupils, who are obliged to travel daily in these sectors, the lack of accessibility is indeed a constraint, and is the subject of high expectations on the part of our fellow citizens. The municipalities of these territories are concerned about these issues and are involved, together with the department, with the aim of improving the roads concerned. Development work has recently been carried out on a road section of departmental 784; But this departmental road investment program is still insufficient to clear the edge of the Raz. Many sectors in the national territory are in this situation of enclaving. Incentives should therefore be taken to improve the accessibility of these remote territories in order to encourage their attractiveness and to support their economic development. Recognizing that the management of secondary road transport is primarily a departmental responsibility, I would like the Government to clarify the support it intends to provide to assist communities in managing daily mobility within peripheral territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u101	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u102	First of all, Mrs Tanguy, I would like to ask you to apologize for the absence of my colleague Elizabeth Borne, who instructed me to give you the answer prepared by her cabinet. You are right, access to mobility is a major issue for many French people, especially in peri-urban and rural areas. It is a condition for access to employment, school, services and leisure, and as such is a factor for integration. The Government is taking steps with you to urgently respond to the social and territorial divides. In this context, we hope that in each part of the territory, including what can be called the "white areas" of mobility, a public authority will be able to organise the mobility of the inhabitants, in connection with all the actors concerned in the territory, starting with employers. This is one of the objectives of the mobility policy bill that will shortly be presented to Parliament. The Government would also like to see the development of new mobility solutions adapted to low densities, which, in most cases, do not allow for the introduction of conventional public transport offers. Among other things, the Act would allow communities to support or develop shared mobility services themselves, such as carpooling, and to provide mobility grants in a clear, new and secure environment. At the same time, consideration is being given to mobilising engineering in the territories in order to best assist in the initiation of services and to disseminate good practices. For example, the state is currently conducting a call for expressions of interest, "French Mobility", in order to identify places of experimentation for new mobility solutions, with particular attention to the sparsely populated, rural and mountain areas that you have testified by evoking yours. Finally, in the face of a system of governance of the mobility of the most fragile and often very complex, the future law aims to promote the decompartmentalisation and the very close link between the actors of mobility, the social sphere and employment, in particular for access to employment and vocational training. So be assured, Madam Member, of our mobilization to ensure that mobility is truly accessible to all in all territories: this is the appointment that Mrs Borne gives to national representation through the bill she will submit to her.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u103	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u104	I am reassured by this answer, and will insist only on one point: with regard to the cooperation of local and regional authorities, the State must really have an incentive role, so that partnerships are concluded and the objectives achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u105	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin to put forward his question, No. 304, concerning the electrification of the Angoulême-Saintes-Royan line before the arrival of the TGV.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u106	My question is to Mrs Elizabeth Borne, Minister for Transport. At the beginning of February, Duron submitted his report from the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board – IOC. This report makes recommendations with regard to the priorities for financing road, waterway or rail projects. Page 94, it is suggested, in particular, to abandon the continuation of the electrification project of the Angoulême-Saintes-Royan line, to implement simple experiments of hydrogen propulsion equipment and to abandon the project of the TGV link between Paris and Royan via Angoulême-Cognac-Saintes, in connection with the opening of the recent high-speed line South Europe Atlantic – Towers-Bordeaux, in fact – on the grounds that "taking into account the high operating costs of TGVs on a conventional line, this link does not seem relevant". However, this electrification can be part of a logic of modernising daily transport. Let me therefore state that this recommendation does not seem to me to be valid. It is not really accepted either by the political class of Charente-Maritime, which I echo here, nor by the 500,000 Charentais, who are still deprived to this day of high-speed train, despite past promises, signed plan contracts and the cofinancing obtained. Our so beautiful department of the island of Oléron, the country of Rouyan, the Romanesque Saintonge and the lands of Cognac, yet designated the favorite tourist department of the French in 2016, still has no direct TGV link with the capital, while La Baule, Les Sables-d'Olonne or Arcachon have had one for a long time. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would be grateful if you would reassure us of the fate which the Government intends to reserve to the recommendations of this report, which would put the only commercial profitability before the harmonious development of the railway lines, yet so important from a tourist and economic point of view for our territories, particularly for the departments of Charente and Charente-Maritime.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u107	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u108	Mr. Member, I should like to convey to you, after apologizing to Elizabeth Borne, the response of the Government that her services have prepared. As you have said, the Infrastructure Guidance Board has analysed the issues involved in the project to electrify the railway star of Saintes, and in particular the Angoulême-Saintes-Royan branch, which was included in the contract for the State-region plan of Poitou-Charentes for 2015-2020 to the amount of 120 million euros, with the aim of allowing, in particular, the TGV service of Saintonge and Pays Royannais. The Commission considered that, given the high operating costs of conventional line TGVs, this direct link does not appear to be relevant, unlike the completion of infrastructure renewal, the modernization of signage and a localized increase in speed between Angoulême and Beillant. Accordingly, the Council recommended not to continue this operation. However, the IOC report is only a step before the development of the infrastructure programming and financing component, which is to be included in the mobility policy bill which the national representation will be considering in the coming weeks and which is still the subject of extensive consultations with the elected representatives and the various stakeholders concerned. The Government took note of the conclusions of the report, stating that these are only recommendations that do not involve the State, although it agrees with the Council's analysis of the need, taking into account the needs identified throughout the national territory, to prioritize investment. In the present case, the proposed electrification is well reflected in the State-region plan contract. Any decision on its future could only be made in full agreement with the Regional Council. For example, in the New Aquitaine region alone, many fine service lines require more than €1 billion over the next ten years to avoid slowdowns or closures. Work is therefore under way, under the auspices of the Regional Prefect and the Regional Council, to develop a comprehensive and shared vision for prioritizing the actions to be undertaken on all railway lines in the region. No one is unaware of the importance of the Angoulême-Saintes-Royan line for the vitality of the territories crossed, which you recalled, Mr. I would like to reaffirm the Government's determination to give priority to daily transportation and the opening up of these territories. Whatever the outcome of the debates in Parliament on the mobility policy bill, it will be up to us, in partnership with the local and regional authorities, first and foremost the regions, to identify the most relevant concrete actions to be implemented in order to improve as quickly as possible the service to Saintonge and the Royanese Country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u109	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u110	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. I will, of course, follow closely the continuation of this dossier, which, I repeat, is of great importance for the planning of our territory. Its dynamism and economic development depend on the expected arrival of the TGV in Saintonge. We must be connected to the capital as soon as possible. The electrification would make it possible to offer a TGV service between Paris and Royan, via Saintes. Passengers would gain in comfort, as there would be no load break in Angoulême. This would represent a real interest for both tourists and business travellers and for the entire life pool. We need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u111	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 305, concerning the electrification of the Amiens-Boulogne-sur-Mer line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u112	My question, which I associate with the Ferelec association and its president, Daniel Fasquelle, is addressed to the minister responsible for transport. It concerns the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Council – IOC – which provides for €225 million in rail transport funding for the possible electrification of certain lines, of which the Amiens-Rang-du-Fliers section seems to be excluded. The electrification of this 83-kilometre stretch would allow the continuous completion of the Amiens-Boulogne-sur-Mer line. The section between Boulogne-sur-Mer and Rang-du-Fliers was electrified with the help of the former Nord-Pas-de-Calais region. Today, it is the Hauts-de-France region that could take over part of the investment needed to electrify the last section, between Amiens and Rang-du-Fliers. The advantages of this electrification are obvious for users, but also in economic and tourist terms, two days before the inauguration of the Grand Nausicaà, the largest aquarium in Europe, with its basin of 10000 cubic meters. It would lead to a saving of about twenty minutes on the route Amiens-Boulogne-sur-Mer. More importantly, it would offer a second route to Paris from Calais and the Channel Tunnel, in the event of disruptions on the Calais-Lille-Paris line. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us whether electrification of the last section between Amiens and Boulogne-sur-Mer is one of the priorities of the minister, knowing that the state had previously committed itself to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u113	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u114	Member, allow me to ask you to excuse the absence of Elizabeth Borne. I will give you the Government's answer to your question. The Infrastructure Guidance Board has indeed had the opportunity to examine the electrification operation you are reporting on the Amiens-Abbeville-Rang-du-Fliers line, which represents a cost of approximately 220 million euros. Part of this transaction is included in the contract for a State-region plan of the Hauts-de-France. The Commission considered that an extension of the TGVs to Boulogne is now unrealistic in terms of the operating costs of this type of conventional line train. In terms of traffic, the usefulness of the interoperability of the use of two-tier electrified equipment does not seem to him to be demonstrated. Finally, he considers that the Paris-Amiens-Lille freight route is far from being saturated. Accordingly, the Council proposed not to continue this operation. As I have just told your colleague, Member of Parliament, the Government takes note of the conclusions of the IOC. I would like to reiterate that these are only recommendations, which, at this stage, do not involve the Government or the State, since the Council's recommendations will be the subject of consultations with the elected representatives – they are currently in the process – with a view to developing the infrastructure programming and financing component of the mobility policy bill that you will have to consider, since this text will be debated by Parliament. The Government is aware of the importance of this line for the vitality of the territories crossed. I would like to reaffirm its determination to give priority to daily transportation and the opening up of the territories. Whatever the outcome of the debate on the bill to guide mobility in Parliament, concrete actions will have to be defined in order to improve the service to Boulogne-sur-Mer and the Opale coast. This work will have to be done in partnership with local and regional authorities, first and foremost the Hauts-de-France Regional Council, in order to identify the most relevant measures to be implemented. Élisabeth Borne and her office are entirely at your disposal, M.P., to continue to discuss this matter. That is the answer I could give you on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u115	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u116	Thank you, Secretary of State. This project is important: the journey time between Boulogne and Paris has not changed for fifty years! Today, I left by car at four o'clock in the morning and took two hours and a quarter – respecting speed limits! And when I take the train – when it works – the journey takes about three and a half hours. You imagine, Mr. Secretary of State, that this journey time does not strengthen the attractiveness of the Boulonnais and our region of the Opal coast, especially for tourists, while the Grand Nausicaà will, I recall, be inaugurated this Friday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u117	Mrs Agnès Chill has the floor to raise her question, No. 307, concerning the closure of railway stations on the J-line of the transilian.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u118	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. In his programme, the President of the Republic made daily transport and the opening up of the territories one of the axes of his work and that of the Government. The minister argued to focus on daily transportation rather than on major projects. Today, however, three stations on the J-line of the Transilien, La Villetertre, Liancourt-Saint-Pierre and Trie-Château, are threatened with closure because of the work to meet the standards made mandatory following the deployment of the new rolling stock ordered by Île-de-France Mobilitys. The service of these stations, however, plays a real role of territorial cohesion between Paris and the Oise. In these already isolated and underserved territories, these closures would be tantamount to depriving the daily users of this line, as well as the inhabitants of this territory, of the only suitable mobility solution available to them. As transport is also one of the criteria for choosing the location of young working couples, this policy exacerbates the divide between the territories. Indeed, the peri-urban area around the Grand Paris is shrinking more and more. Today, this territory is marked by the dynamism of the facilities of people who come to search for less expensive land but still allow to work in the Paris region. It is to bet that these closures would endanger this momentum, which is necessary for our territory. This J line is uniquely located at the intersection of three regions: Île-de-France, Hauts-de-France and Normandie. In order to prevent them from turning over the ball, always putting the necessary work on each other, to the detriment of the users and the territory, the State and SNCF could play a central and facilitating role. What does the Government intend to do to ensure that the authorities organizing transport and SNCF guarantee a public service in the direction of the users and the opening and development of this territory? What information can it provide on the planned funding for the three endangered stations on this line, which are located in the Oise department?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u119	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u120	Madam Member, I should like once again to apologise for Mrs Borne's absence. I will therefore read out the answer that it has prepared for you. As you said, the 247000 daily trips on the J-Line of the Transilien make it possible to ensure the link between the Parisian agglomeration and many peri-urban areas, at the crossing of Île-de-France, Hauts-de-France and Normandy. This is an important network, which needs to be modernised. The road renewal work, which has been carried out, as you know, since 2014, sometimes involves traffic interruptions. To remedy these inconveniences for users and territories and to serve all the territories crossed, a new service offer was put in place on 10 December. It must be accompanied in the coming years by the deployment of new trainsets, financed by Île-de-France Mobilitys, which will require the adaptation of certain stations. The decision whether or not to maintain local services is not a matter for the State but for the transport organising authorities, which are best able to assess the needs of citizens, depending on the specificities of each territory. These are Île-de-France Mobilitys and the regional councils of Hauts-de-France and Normandy. With regard to the stations on the J-line that you mentioned, Member of the Assembly, the Minister responsible for transport was able to meet with the presidents of the regional councils concerned. However, the Government has the ambition to strengthen consultation with users and citizens in the construction and development of mobility policies. The National Assembly has introduced a provision to this effect in the draft law for a new railway pact, in particular to ensure that user associations are consulted by the organizing authorities on supply developments. This is a profound change in the practices of dialogue and consultation that the Government wishes to undertake. The Minister is at your full disposal, Madam Member of Parliament, in particular to facilitate the flow of information between the three authorities concerned. As a former mayor of a city located at the confluence of several transport organizing authorities, I am aware that this is not always easy. This is where the State can play a role, encouraging the flow of information. The Government will naturally be at your side, Madam Member, to help you in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u121	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u122	We will certainly need the services of the State to make the dialogue between the three regions of Normandy, Île-de-France and Hauts-de-France more fluid, so that these three stations do not close. The inhabitants of these three localities located in the Vexin, in the Oise, must be able to continue to work. Above all, these territories claim to be forgotten or even abandoned if the three stations close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u123	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to raise her question, No. 300, concerning the situation of schools in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u124	Minister of National Education, contrary to the image too often conveyed and to all a priori, schools in Seine-Saint-Denis are for many of them institutions of excellence, carried by the energy of teaching teams dedicated to the success of all students. There are strong potentials. It is enough to convince yourself to read the latest ranking of high schools, which include the Lycée Jacques Brel, the Lycée Maurice Utrillo or the Lycée Mozart, despite the disengagement of the State in recent years and despite the new threats to the public services, and in particular to the information and guidance centres – IOC. These institutions also enjoy strong support from families, who know that the way to school is the only one that will ensure a future for their children. But this excellence is sometimes shaken, even annihilated, by serious and recurring problems: recruitment problems, as in the high school of the Aristide-Briand aircraft trades, or violence, as we saw at Utrillo High School. In the face of this, students, parents, educational and educational teams expect the State to speak out and to take strong action. The children I'm talking about need to complete their school curriculum in complete tranquillity. I talked to two senior high school students in Utrillo, class delegates, who, having filled out their "Parcoursup" form, were afraid of being excluded from the higher education institutions they were aiming for because of what the media had said about their high school. Minister, what measures are being taken or envisaged to ensure that all students in Seine-Saint-Denis have the opportunity to study peacefully?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u125	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u126	Thank you, honourable Member, for this very important question. I particularly appreciate what you said when you started: it must always be remembered that there is a public service of national education in the Seine-Saint-Denis which achieves good results. We often insist on failures, and I will of course come to them, but we must always start by saying that for the vast majority of students, this public service works and produces results. Thus, for example, the rate of access to higher education in Seine-Saint-Denis is higher than the national average. This positive reality must always be emphasized in order to create a virtuous circle of trust. On the other hand, we must look at the problems in the face – and the problems, there are some, starting with the violence you mentioned. It is true that it must be rectified, or it must lead to a general deterioration, including from the educational point of view for pupils. The decrease in the current presence, for example, is very damaging. The State devotes a great deal of resources and attention to this. I would like to recall what is being done in this area before drawing some perspectives for the future. There are now 600 agents assigned to mobile security teams – EMS. I remember talking to you about this, Member, at the time the device was created. In the Academy of Créteil, they are 63 this school year, compared to 46 last year. EMSs are responsible for securing the situation in institutions, doing prevention, but also reassuring when there are incidents. We know that they are very effective. Their relationship with law enforcement is constant. We must therefore always strengthen them, both quantitatively and qualitatively; That's what we're doing next year, as the number I've just given you shows. There are also 500 prevention and security assistants in France, 50 of whom are in the Academy of Créteil. They receive specific training and are assigned, for their part, to sensitive institutions. They carry out preventive educational activities and are present alongside the EMS in the event of a serious crisis in the institution. In terms of tools, school heads and principals, constituencies, directors of departmental departments of national education and rectorates have been given an application that we call "Facts Institution": it secures reports of serious events, which it ensures traceability and allows for comprehensive and detailed analysis. It allows us to be more responsive to requests for accompaniment. Personally, I read every night all the incidents so reported. The aim is to have a leadership of security, which requires strengthening which I have spoken of, but also through policies of school life within each institution, in order to get to the root of the problems of violence that we encounter, and through cooperation with the police and justice forces to avoid all disturbances emanating from the outside.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u127	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u128	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I believe that there is also a need to involve local elected officials, including mayors, in law enforcement and in the measures taken by national education, who can work to improve the convergence between the actions of the various stakeholders. It is essential to speak loudly about the quality of teaching in Seine-Saint-Denis, because we need experienced teachers, and need the students in the department to want to come back to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u129	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor to put his question, No. 303, on the digital tool and the learning of writing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u130	Minister of National Education, the school is the place of learning and you rightly advocate the acquisition of basic knowledge within it: reading, writing, counting and respecting others. At the same time, our society leads us every day a little more to consider the growing role of digital in our daily actions. The school cannot escape and the children must, from an early age, know the use and virtues of the school. Several associations and citizens have testified that the digital tool has, in many cases, significant benefits for the training or upgrading of young people in writing. The link between digital and education is no longer to be demonstrated; It is much more to be implemented on the ground, and this is now. The usefulness of digital, sometimes playful, sometimes practical, and the central place it will occupy in the future in education are no doubt. This materialization of our ambitions raises an essential question. The shortcomings observed throughout the national territory show that there are significant disparities in the proficiency of the French language among students in the same high school. The digital tool will have to adapt to these disparities in order to become fully functional. So what is the method chosen by the ministry to understand this new stage in the digital school of tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u131	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u132	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which is at the crossroads of two of the most important issues for national education as well as for any educational system: on the one hand, the consolidation of fundamental knowledge – reading, writing, counting and respecting others, which I remind you of, the heart of my policy – and on the other hand, digital, the heart of the revolution that we are experiencing, whose consequences on tomorrow's jobs and, quite simply, on our lives demand that our students be adapted to it. As you said, digital tools can be used for the acquisition of basic knowledge. The term I use constantly to address this issue is that of discernment. As we know, in this area as in others, digital tools can bring the best and the worst, depending on how they are used. I will therefore start with prevention, and then turn to our action. We need to pay attention to the fact that, according to more and more studies, the addiction to screens can be very negative for children, especially between the ages of zero and seven. We must constantly deliver this public health message, which implies not the absence of digital technology for seven years, but a highly reasoned presence of these tools and the primacy of those among them who do not have screens. Because digital is not just screens: it is also robots and a whole set of interactions that are not harmful when they do not present this risk of addiction to screens. In addition, account must be taken of certain specific features of basic knowledge, which require a fairly traditional approach. I am thinking in particular of the writing, the writing to which we must train our students: we must not substitute the keyboard for the graphic, but we must ensure that both coexist. As these preventions are recalled, digital technologies obviously have very great assets for the acquisition of basic knowledge. On these issues, I wish to position the Ministry of National Education at the national and even global forefront. We will soon be opening a national education lab for this purpose. The link between the digital tool and the learning of reading and writing is taken into account in several devices, for example for pupils with "dys" disorders – I am thinking of the Edu-up device. At this very moment, Professor Stanislas Dehaene leads experiments with tablets in the Academy of Poitiers, to help the phonological consciousness of the students. Several actions are also under way in the framework of the future investment programmes under the e-FRAN projects: they are deployed in schools and schools to experiment and evaluate the contributions of digital to the learning of reading and writing. This is the case of Fluence, in the Academy of Grenoble, and TAO, in the academies of Créteil, Grenoble and Poitiers. Finally, the banks of digital educational resources that are increasingly available to teachers combine digital content and tools. The use of digital tools with discernment is very important. It is in line with the teaching recommendations that I have just sent to all teachers and managers of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u133	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u134	Thank you, Minister, for these answer elements adapted to the air of time, which invites us to develop an education for the use of digital technology. It is not a question of stigmatizing the tool, but of accompanying and optimizing its use by seeing it as a real opportunity for learning children. In this regard, I will therefore be very attentive as a result of your various work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u135	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to raise her question, No. 315, on the allocations from the Fund for the Development of Associative Life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u136	Minister of National Education, I would like to draw your attention to the modalities for the allocation of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, the FDVA. The Government had announced that the amounts allocated to the parliamentary reserve, abolished in July 2017, would be redirected to the FDVA for associations. In addition, during the consideration of the draft finance law for 2018, an amendment unanimously voted increased the funding of the Youth and Associative Life programme by EUR 25 million. However, it appears that, for the Aube department, this amount would amount to around 168,000 euros to be distributed among 11,000 associations, which is very insufficient. The Government had also announced that the current governance of the FDVA would be reviewed. Indeed, the prefect is currently the sole decision-maker for the allocation of the FDVA; It is necessary that there should be links with the elected representatives, who are familiar with the land and the fabric of associations, following the model of the proposed scheme for the allocation of the equipment of the rural territories. Funding for associative life from this new endowment was to be specified in early 2018. To date, no implementing decree has been issued. Since this delay is very detrimental to the projects of the associations, I thank you for specifying the date of publication of this decree and its content. What will be the eligibility conditions of associations, the nature and amount of subsidizable operations, the procedures to be followed in order to benefit from grants? You have indicated that consideration could be given, among other things, to taking into account the vitality and dynamism of the associative fabric of the territories. What exactly is the situation? Are you considering setting up a FDVA commission in each department, involving the local parliamentarians and chaired by the Prefect? Thank you for your answer, Minister, and for your attention to these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u137	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u138	Madam Member, the FDVA was in fact responsible for allocating to associations, in the territories, funds previously paid under the parliamentary reserve. As you recalled, it has been abounded with an additional 25 million euros in the framework of the discussion of the Finance Law for 2018, by a parliamentary amendment adopted unanimously. You have done very well to recall the conditions under which this amendment was voted and the commitments that were then made. The December 30, 2011 decree on the FDVA was therefore completely rewritten to change the operation and management of the Fund in the spirit that drives us, you and I. The territorial distribution of appropriations is included in the decree, in accordance with the wishes expressed by the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance. This distribution is very departmental. It is, for half, exactly the same for all departments, so that no territory, especially the most rural or overseas, is harmed for the benefit of more populated departments, as some parliamentarians feared at the time of the budget discussion. The other half of the appropriations are allocated proportionally among the departments, taking into account the criteria of population and associative dynamism. This dynamism is measured by the number of associations in operation and the annual number of associations established within the territorial jurisdiction. As regards eligible associations, it is the decree which organizes the arrangements for the allocation of subsidies to associations in metropolitan France and to those of the communities governed by articles 73, 74 and 76 of the Constitution. In this way, small associations from all the territories that once benefited from the parliamentary reserve, for example in the field of sport – we heard a lot about this – will be able to apply for grants under the FDVA for their operation and for their new projects. With regard to governance, the decree also provides for a new governance of the FDVA, as closely as possible to local realities, as the parliamentarians wished in the session. A new departmental college of the fund, chaired by the State representative in the department, the prefect, will be composed on parity of qualified associative personalities and local elected representatives – representatives of the departmental council, mayors of the municipalities and presidents of EPCI with own taxation appointed by the association of the mayors of the department. This college will be a decision-maker on proposals for the financing of associations which fall within its territorial jurisdiction. Upon publication of this decree, which is currently at the signature of the three competent ministers, the departmental directorates of social cohesion will be able to organise the publication of the call for local projects which will specify the territorial priorities identified by the departmental college and the procedures for submitting applications for grants. Within this framework, all eligible associations will be able to apply to the FDVA for grants. The decree is therefore in the process of being signed and will be published very soon, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u139	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u140	Minister, I can hear you, but when will the decree be issued? There's an emergency! We're in May and the associations don't know how they're going to do it, when they need these subsidies. Moreover, will Members take part in the debates of the decision-making college, in order to allocate subsidies to associations in our territory? After being deprived of the parliamentary reserve, we want to be involved in these decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u141	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Cordier, to put his question, No. 317 concerning the abolition of teaching posts at the start of 2018 in the north of the Ardennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u142	Minister of National Education, I would like to draw your attention to the new abolitions of teaching posts announced in the north of the Ardennes department for the 2018 school year. I can only worry about this decision, which threatens the future of many schools, especially in rural areas, as local elected officials struggle to sustain quality education, which is an essential condition for developing the attractiveness of their territories. Since 2000, 256 posts have been abolished in primary education. You will answer, minister, that there are fewer students and that this department is not the worst housed, which I agree with. However, the socio-economic situation in the Meuse Valley continues to deteriorate: many establishments are classified in REP or REP+. That is why this new abolition of posts raises legitimate discontent among families and teachers. The feeling of injustice is all the more strong since the municipalities of the Meuse Valley have been excluded from the mechanisms of the city's policy, which deprives them, as well as the social centres, of the funds they need to help young people and families in difficulty. Minister, the state must be on the side of the territories that are suffering. On 17 July 2017, at the national conference of the territories, the President of the Republic promised that rural territories would no longer be the adjustment variable and that there would no longer be class closures in rural areas. Minister, are you going to go back to these job cuts, especially in the schools of Bogny-sur-Meuse, Revin, Rocroi, Givet, Vireux-Wallerand, Haybes, des Hautes-Rivières, Warcq, Tournes, Renwez and Charleville-Mézières? Can you also confirm that in rural revitalization zones, in accordance with Circular No. 2012-202 of 18 December 2012, children under the age of three are well accounted for in the population projections? Minister, thank you for giving a specific answer to a specific question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u143	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u144	Mr President, your question is important. It allows me to give an answer on the general level, on the scale of France, and on the local level of the Ardennes. With regard to France, I would like to recall elements that are verifiable, clear, clear and precise. Even if several speeches on the right and on the left want to contradict them, these facts are very real: there will be almost 4000 job creations at primary school next year, while the number of students will fall by 30,000. The rate of supervision at primary school will improve in all the departments of France and even more so in the most rural departments, such as the Cantal or the Lozère, which I often quote, or the Ardennes to which I will speak in a moment. Such attention would never have been paid to rural schools. None of the statements claiming the opposite are based on numerical facts. Compare the returns for ten years if you want to convince yourself. That there is a demographic problem in the rural world, we are well aware of that. This is the real problem, against which we must act in particular by re-creating dynamism, to which the school can contribute. I am fully mobilized to refuse to follow this worrying demographic curve and, on the contrary, to compensate it and try to contribute to the revival of rural dynamism. I will always be your partner when it comes to creating attractiveness. With regard to the schools you listed and the specific situation of the Ardennes, there will be 701 less pupils in the first degree at the start of 2018 and 13 jobs abolished, which is not at all proportional. The departmental ratio of the number of teachers per 100 pupils will therefore be much higher than the national average: it will be 6.33 at the start of 2018, compared to 6.2 at the start of 2017, the average being 5.9 in France. The situation in the Ardennes is more favourable than in the rest of the country. But that does not mean that I am indifferent to the phenomenon you mentioned. First of all, it is necessary to differentiate the closure of classes from the closures of schools: it is absolutely not the same. Your question was about class closures, which are an objective demographic reality. If we did otherwise, we would be misjudged by all our fellow citizens. On the other hand, school closures need to be given very high attention, because I know how much they are a problem for a community. That is why we have embarked on the strategy of the departmental rural conventions. This applies to the Ardennes as well as to all the rural departments of France, which number sixty-six. It is through multi-year strategies, designed with local elected officials, that we can work to plan a long-term rebound strategy to which the necessary resources will be allocated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u145	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u146	Minister, you can imagine that I am not at all satisfied with your answer. You reason on average, when I was talking to you about concrete cases in the Ardennes department. I have heard your comments on the national figures, and I am not questioning them at all. On the other hand, I have asked you specific questions about specific sites and the inclusion of children under the age of three in areas of rural revitalization. That's what I care about this department. If you cannot bring me this morning, I would like to thank you, Mr. Minister, for your willingness, with the help of your services, to answer these questions in practical terms. These elements are expected not only in the Ardennes, but in many departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u147	Mrs Lise Magnier spoke of her question, No. 328, concerning the financing of private nursery schools under contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u148	Minister of National Education, my question concerns the financing of nursery classes in private schools under contract by the municipalities. The President of the Republic announced last March the transition to three years of compulsory schooling, a decision which I very much welcome. The operating costs of the nursery classes of private schools under contract, which currently accommodate approximately 300,000 children, can be financed by the municipalities in the same way as those of the elementary classes of the same schools, except that this funding is not required by law. The proportion of private kindergartens not receiving any financial support from their community would be estimated at one third. Can you tell us, Minister, whether lowering the age at which education will be compulsory to three years will also make it compulsory for the municipalities to finance these private nursery schools under contract? If that were the case, would state financial assistance be provided to communities, given their extremely constrained budgetary context and the strong incentive for them to control their spending?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u149	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u150	Madam Member, as you pointed out, on the occasion of the foundation of kindergarten, the President of the Republic announced the lowering of the age of compulsory education to three years from the beginning of 2019. This decision is threefold in scope. This scope is first and foremost historical. The lowering of the age of compulsory education has been unprecedented since 1882. This decision strongly affirms the fundamental nature of schooling before the age of six and recognizes the importance of the missions carried out by staff, teachers of schools and specialized territorial agents of nursery schools – ATSEM – who welcome children to kindergarten. It is also social. Scientific studies show that early cognitive stimulation, between the ages of zero and five, promotes academic success, educational attainment and occupational integration. The Government's will is therefore to act as soon as possible, paying constant attention to the most fragile students. Today, more than 97 per cent of students are enrolled at three years of age, but in imperfect ways. We want the approximately 20,000 students who are not currently involved in kindergarten education to be involved. After the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1 in priority education, this decision, of a deeply social nature, was taken with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. The scope of this decision is finally pedagogical. The lowering of the age of compulsory education is an opportunity to affirm the identity of the kindergarten. On this point in particular, we will have to work together with local and regional authorities. I would also like to take this reply to thank them particularly for the work done on a daily basis for the schooling of all children, on the understanding that we are working very closely with the Association of Mayors of France. With regard to the legal and financial consequences, we are working closely with the Directorate-General for Local Government on the practical implementation of the three-year reduction in compulsory education, both for municipalities and for national education services. A wide range of consultation work will also be carried out with all associations representing elected representatives. Several parameters need to be taken into account, in particular: territorial disparities, because the three-year school enrolment rate is very different depending on the geographical areas – sometimes within the same department – and the share of first-level public and private education also varies greatly; demographics, since the continuous decline in the number of pupils in the first degree has been confirmed by INSEE for the next few years; the legal and financial consequences. The bill lowering the age of compulsory education will be introduced in early 2019. All impacts, both legal and financial, will be assessed in the context of this text, which will be based on a twofold imperative: compliance with article 72-2 of the Constitution and the interest of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u151	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u152	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. If the bill you are referring to is introduced in January 2019 and it must have financial consequences for communities, it will complicate the development of the budgets they must adopt before the end of March. It will be difficult for them to foresee the creation of new jobs in nursery schools or the care of nursery schools under contract. In terms of planning municipal budgets, this legislative timetable does not seem to me to be the most relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u153	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor to put his question, No 325, on the consequences of transposing the Travel Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u154	Minister of National Education, are children tourists when they share a night in the beautiful star in a holiday colony? Will parents have other choices than catalogues of tourist stays for their children's holidays? Funny questions... But it is the situation that is looming for 1 July next, with the entry into force of the ordinance of 20 December 2017 and the decree of 29 December 2017 that transpose the European directive "Travel". These transposition texts, as drafted by the Government, subject collective reception bodies for minors – ACM – not for profit to the registration obligation provided for in the Tourism Code and to the deposit of a financial guarantee. Thus, the holiday colonies, Scout movements and classes discovered are aligned with the tourism market, without taking into account their educational, social and solidarity vocation. What about the registration of these colonies, for more than a century, for purposes which are within the competence of public policies, those of national education or of youth and sports, and which could be, according to the times, hygienists, health, social, educational or even security? What about the mixes? Doing together children and young people? Do we want for our children activities subject to exclusively commercial logics or free time, discovery, encounters, learning autonomy? Colonies carry out a mission of general interest. They are not intended for consumers, but for children, who sometimes do not have the chance or the means to leave. They open up opportunities for children and young adults to do and learn together. Let us remember that every year 3 million children do not go on vacation, of which 2 million do not leave their homes, even one night. However, the minister, the government, or perhaps Bercy, who led this transcription without any consultation with the actors concerned, chose a transposition completely ignoring the general interest mission of the non-profit colonies, even though in other countries this difference has been taken into account. Germany applies this text only to travel agencies and tour operators. Portugal distinguishes between the merchant and the non-market by applying the requests for guarantees to travel agencies and by providing that they do not apply to Portuguese institutions operating in the social economy. Luxembourg has developed possibilities for derogation. Spain distinguished between companies and associations. With this directive, it is not even a matter of improving the educational guarantees to which the holiday camps already respond in the context of their "Youth and People's Education" or "Supplementary Association of Public Education", nor, moreover, of improving the quality of the activities proposed, which is also guaranteed today by the ACM regulations. Therefore, Minister, we do not understand the Government's response to a written question from our colleague Senator from the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, Denise Saint-Pé. How can we understand such a restrictive transcript, which imposes on registered associations, as well as on local and regional authorities and the ACMs organising day-to-day stays without accommodation, to meet these new obligations, as provided for in the written response received by the senator?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u155	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u156	Mr President, I understand the concern that inspires your question. I think my answer will dispel some or all of your concerns. Indeed, it seems to me that you have been imperfectly informed about these matters. Of course, I share with you the desire for continuous development and even a rebound in organizations that allow children from all social backgrounds to enjoy a holiday, especially in the open air. This is obviously a goal of general interest which will have to be achieved in the coming years. The famous "holiday settlements" are mainly made up of associations and, to a lesser extent, public authorities. Every year, there are 900000 departures of minors, within 28,000 stays. However, for the past seven years there has been a steady decline in the number of stays and minors admitted: - 22%, which is considerable. We have to change that. The European Directive of 25 November 2015 aims, inter alia, to ensure a high level of protection for travellers with regard to the physical and financial risks associated with travel and travel activities. His inspiration is easily understood, taking into account issues such as risk prevention. Its transposition by the order of 20 December 2017 led to the deletion, in article L. 211-18 of the Tourism Code, of associations and non-profit organisations organising ACMs from the list of bodies excluded from the registration obligation, obliging them in particular to justify a sufficient financial guarantee and insurance guaranteeing the financial consequences of professional civil liability. However, this abolition does not lead to the entry into the field of tourist registration by Atout France and the various obligations laid down in the Directive all the organizers of ACM defined in Articles L. 227-4 and R. 227-1 of the Code of Social Action and Families. Several cases seem to have to be distinguished. The scope of the Directive does not include approved associations to which you have primarily referred, whether they are youth and popular education accreditations, the sports sector or supplementary educational associations in public education, which organise MCAs in the national territory. These associations, which fulfil a mission of general educational and sporting interest, contribute to the strengthening of the social link and promote access to holidays and leisure activities for all children, in particular the three million who are not lucky enough to go on holiday. Given their not-for-profit purpose and the particular regime to which they are subject, providing a high level of protection, they are not required to justify a new financial guarantee in relation to the existing scheme. Secondly, legal entities governed by public law, including local authorities, which do not intervene in the industrial or commercial field, can organise many ACMs in France. In doing so, they also act in the public interest for educational or sporting purposes. They are therefore also, for the same reasons as approved associations, outside the scope of the Directive. ACMs without accommodation – leisure receptions, youth receptions, scouting receptions without accommodation – also do not fall within the scope of this directive since their operating period covers less than 24 hours and they do not include overnight stays. Finally, associations and non-profit organizations belonging to a federation or a declared union which guarantee them are not required to comply with the conditions of registration, provided that they are registered. In a context marked by the continuing decline in the number of holiday camps in the wider sense in recent years, the application of the Directive of 20 November 2015 does not ignore the added value in the educational or sporting field of these associations. I will gladly accompany the proper implementation of these provisions, in a spirit of support for these bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u157	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to speak on his question No 298 on priority education in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u158	Minister of National Education, the school of the Republic promotes republican principles, particularly that of equality. Free, secular and compulsory schooling had been the crucible of equality, allowing all children, regardless of the financial means of their families, to have an education. The network of public schools was intended to provide the same education throughout the territory. Today, however, this equality is broken, because with the smoking doctrine of equal opportunities, we are trying to make it appear that the children arriving at school are already equal and that the school differences between them are the result of their respective merits. That is obviously not the case. The social environment from which they come predetermines their real chances of academic success. The sociological studies of students admitted to large schools are flagrant. I therefore ask you, Minister, about your ministry's policy to address educational inequalities and the appropriateness of allocating additional resources for priority education. Indeed, the criteria governing their distribution seem to be at least obscure. I would like to draw your attention to the Seine-Saint-Denis department, particularly the city of Aubervilliers, of which I am a member. As you know, Aubervilliers is a particularly disadvantaged city, and unfortunately the school is not spared. However, your services have classified in REP + some of the schools, while another is only in REP. As a result, neighbouring schools, whose pupils have the same sociological characteristics, have different means. Some institutions located in areas deemed to be more difficult than others are classified only as PERs. But teachers face the same difficulties everywhere! More than that, how can we explain that, on average, the resources allocated to a student in Paris are one and a half times higher than those provided for a student in Seine-Saint-Denis? The entire educational community in the city has been mobilizing for several months against these inequalities. Minister, do you intend to ensure that all schools and secondary schools in the city of Aubervilliers are classified in REP+ at the start of 2018? What measures do you intend to take to address this gross inequality of treatment? What means do you intend to allocate in particular to the Seine-Saint-Denis to cope with the increase in the number of pupils? What do you intend to do to ensure the permanence of education, knowing that a student of Seine-Saint-Denis loses the equivalent of a school year between kindergarten and senior year because of the non-replacements of teachers? What are you going to do at last to ensure that compulsory education is respected, knowing that an allophone student has to wait six months or more to be educated?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u159	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u160	Member, there are many things in your question. I understand the supporters, even if I don't subscribe to all its ends. Don't let the Government, let alone myself, say that public policies don't take social inequalities into account! On the contrary, I agree with you that social determinisms are perceptible from kindergarten onwards. This is precisely what inspires our public policies, the most obvious being the duplication of CPs and EC1s in REPs and REPs, in order to compensate for these inequalities. This is clearly the meaning of our policy, of which your territory is extremely profitable, even if it is only over the duration that these benefits will be felt. Furthermore, you are right to point out that particular attention must be paid to the territory of the Seine-Saint-Denis. That's my case, since I've been working on it. I know the problems of the Academy of Créteil and especially of the Seine-Saint-Denis, but I think our speeches should be based on a positive projection in the future. If difficulties are not to be ignored, then success must not be masked either. There are successes, which Mrs Buffet referred to earlier. It is important to recall in particular the very good rate of access to higher education for students of Seine-Saint-Denis. There is a virtuous circle of trust that we must also trigger for this department, holding on to these questions speeches that are not only pessimistic. In support of this, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the school year, 682 jobs will be created in the Academy of Créteil, a large part of which concerns the Seine-Saint-Denis, which, for an increase of 662 students expected in the first degree, has 465 new jobs – more than two thirds of the number of new students! It's a big deal. At the college level, the average number of pupils per division is 26.5 in Paris, compared with 23.7 in the Academy of Créteil. Within the framework of this policy, the rate of supervision in the first degree will be, in Seine-Saint-Denis, the best ever achieved in this department. It will reach 5.9 per 100 pupils, when the national average is 5.2. We therefore pay particular attention to this department, both quantitative and qualitative. I heard your comments on the rankings in REP and REP+. Recall that these territorial rankings were made under another government and that a new exercise will soon be carried out for the 2019 re-entry. Objective criteria will allow us to see what is happening. In any event, we all know that the organisation in REP and REP + of our school system produces threshold effects that sometimes result in what our fellow citizens, or in this case yourself, consider injustices. That is why I hope that you will contribute to the reflections that we will lead in the future on the evolution of priority education in order to avoid such threshold effects and to ensure more social justice. We will choose relevant social and school indicators, and we will pay close attention to the particular case of the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u161	Mr Stéphane Peu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 301, on violence in the vicinity of and within schools in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u162	Minister of National Education, after Marie-George Buffet, I ask you again about the situation of schools in Seine-Saint-Denis, which is of great concern to us. A month and a half ago, I sent you a letter alerting you to the serious incidents of violence in the vicinity and sometimes even in schools in the constituency of which I am elected. Without waiting for your written answer on this matter as worrying as it is urgent, I return to you in the oral, and more directly. Since the last school year, dozens of serious acts of violence have been recorded in several institutions in the Seine-Saint-Denis, particularly in Pierrefitte, Saint-Denis and Stains. Desiring to obtain a clear and precise answer, I will not start, for lack of time, in a precise enumeration of these acts of violence, but you and your services know them perfectly: gunfire, physical and verbal violence against educational staff and students, serious damage to premises... This week, we found some more at the multipurpose high school in Saint-Denis. When we got back to school, we even found drugs in the playground of a kindergarten. All these actions have aroused strong reactions from educational communities, local elected representatives and parents of students, concerned that successive steps have been taken. The only slogan of these mobilizations is that the school remains a Sanctuary. Unfortunately, I am sorry to tell you that the answers provided by the rectorate, the academic inspection and the representatives of the State have not been up to the problems. They have often sent back parents, school boards and local authorities, which I do not think is responsible or respectful of the institution of national education. Even appointment requests are neglected! The parents of students at Pablo-Neruda College in Pierrefitte have been waiting for several months for an appointment with the inspector or rectorate of the academy, after acts of violence! Minister, in Seine-Saint-Denis, a department you know well, national education has an essential role to play in cohesion and emancipation. Parents, no doubt more than elsewhere, have immense hopes for her, and staff are heavily involved. While safety is a chain of responsibility that engages multiple actors – communities for buildings, police for security around institutions – national education cannot be exempt from its responsibilities. It needs to provide better psychological and legal support to all staff or students who are subjected to such violence, as is the case with many companies, such as RATP or some HLM organizations confronted with violence against staff or users. In addition, in twenty years, the number of adults – teachers, supervisors, mediators, in short all adult staff in the educational community – has fallen by a third in colleges and high schools. It's an important problem. This haemorrhage of adults must be stopped in schools, mainly in secondary schools. That is why I solemnly ask you to inform me of the measures taken to deal with these events and to prevent them from happening again. Have any long-term arrangements been decided for the next start-up? How do you intend to reassure the educational communities of the Seine-Saint-Denis?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u163	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u164	Mr President, thank you for this important question, which is complementary to the other two that we have heard this morning concerning the Seine-Saint-Denis. We can agree on that. It seems to me important that the representatives of the left side of the House, from which the three representatives of the department we have heard came, have the clarity and willingness to see the facts as they are and to remedy them. I will always be at your side, of course, to contribute to this: we are here for this, and these issues may give rise to future meetings. This consideration of realities is absolutely essential because successful action can only be carried out if the diagnosis is properly made. Indeed, there are problems of violence in the Seine-Saint-Denis, which are of different nature: problems of society, which go beyond school, problems of human means and others which are of a qualitative nature. As far as social problems are concerned, which Mrs Buffet also discussed earlier, it is obviously through inter-ministeriality and working with local elected representatives that we can provide solutions. From this point of view, the prevention and fight against violence must take place in a partnership context involving the State – national education, police, gendarmerie, justice – and local authorities, in particular within the framework of the local security and crime prevention councils – CLSPD – in order to seek immediate and coordinated solutions, but also to initiate long-term projects. We will give all their vitality to the CLSPD, with the new rector of Créteil, as I think you wish. We must also have the appropriate means. I don't know the number you quoted and don't think it's right. To my knowledge, there has been no decline in school life personnel in schools in recent years. Year after year, national education engages more resources in Seine-Saint-Denis. On the pedagogic level, I quoted the figures previously; I also provided figures on mobile security teams, which will increase further in the coming year, as well as prevention and security assistants. Finally, there are also qualitative issues, which refer to staff training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u165	Please conclude, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u166	This is why the training plan for managers in the field of prevention and crisis management will also be strengthened. The biennial convention with the Gendarmerie nationale will also allow the training of heads of establishments and inspectors of the first degree of the whole Seine-Saint-Denis. Moreover, with the Rector of Créteil, we will strengthen the dialogue with the elected representatives in the coming weeks, so that we can have shared strategies, since that is our goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u167	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to raise her question, No 311, on plant health products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u168	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, it must be noted that wine growers are aware of the need to reduce the use of plant protection products. In my Tarn department, especially in Gaillac, they are precursors. For ten years now, an "ecophyto" group has been actively working on this subject: it is composed of about ten independent growers or co-operators, in organic or reasoned agriculture, and is led by an advisor of the Chamber of Agriculture. Their work shows that the decrease in frequency indices – IFT – is possible. For proof, in 2016, the average IFT of the group was 32% lower than that of the rest of the vineyard. They are still aiming at declining targets for the next five years. However, despite the progress made, everything is not settled, far from it. At a recent meeting with this working group, I was able to understand the difficulties that remain to be overcome in order to achieve the ambitious goal of stopping the use of glyphosate within three years. This must be achieved without leaving a single farmer at the side of the road. Financial and human resources will be more than necessary to achieve this. The difficulties faced by wine-growers include weeding under the rank. Mr. Minister, we should begin by ensuring that those who still practice total weeding of the surface reduce the spray dose to what can already be done, that is, one or even one and a half liters per hectare. There are solutions, but it is above all the relationship between working time and profitability, efficiency and environmental impact that must be taken into account. Is the amount of carbon emitted by a tractor more harmful than the impact of glyphosate? No, of course not. But what about the long term, knowing that the passage with a confined sprayer reduces the coverage of the treated surface, which induces more carbon emissions? Attention must therefore be paid to the alternatives proposed. So, Minister, could you tell us what incentives or what binding measures will be taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u169	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u170	Madam Member, you are asking me about reducing the use of glyphosate in vines, based on the example you have observed on the ground in Gaillac, in a network of Dephy farms. Knowing these topics well, you know that many efforts have already been made by wine growers to reduce or even eliminate the use of herbicides. Between 2006 and 2013, exclusively mechanically weeded plots increased from 10 % to 18 %. Still in 2013, 55% of the area was weeded on the inter-range, while this practice was largely minority in the early 2000s. Mechanical weeding is possible and is developing, but its generalization, as you know, is hampered by two obstacles: on the one hand, the additional cost it generates, since it imposes several passages, which can amount to several hundred euros per hectare, and on the other hand, the technical possibility, even physical, to pass the machinery in safe conditions for operators – I am thinking in particular of the steep-slope vines, for which the INRA report, published at the end of 2017, shows the absence of a solution. We are working on this in the context of the EGA – General Statement of Food – bill that we will be debating next week. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, within the framework of the Dephy network to which the collective of farmers you mentioned joins, experiments are carried out to remove chemical weeding on the rank, in particular by testing non-competitive or uncompetitive cover species. In order to emerge from the dependence of part of French agriculture on glyphosate in three years' time, the search for alternatives and their availability is a priority of the Government's action plan published on 25 April. This will involve the establishment of a roadmap that identifies specific research and development priorities; prioritisation of actions financed by the Ecophyto Plan and CASDAR – special allocation account for agricultural and rural development – on this theme; more capitalisation and dissemination of identified and contextualised solutions; and better targeting of public aid, particularly for substitution equipment – of which mechanical weeding is a part – within the framework of the major investment plan. These are the elements that I could give you in response to your perfectly legitimate question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u171	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u172	Thank you, Minister. I have no doubt about all the actions that are being taken to achieve this objective, which I support and defend in my territory. Wine growers are equally aware of this need and are in favour of this development. However, in order to return to those who continue to misuse plant protection products, can we not consider, before the deadlines you have indicated, a regulation that would limit these substances to at least one litre or one and a half litres per hectare? It is the demand of wine growers who make efforts, while others do not do so at all, which does not make it possible to move forward. A reduction in the use of these products, before they disappear, could be a way to show that the minister welcomes the efforts of the wine growers who are already in the ranks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u173	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to put his question, No. 321, on the protection of irrigated agricultural land.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u174	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, how can we keep agriculture in peri-urban and even urban areas and facilitate short circuits? How to protect irrigated agricultural land? In his address to the general states of food, on 22 October 2017, the President of the Republic reaffirmed in these terms the objective pursued: "to accompany the agricultural world in the productive, energy and environmental model that it carries today. » A civilization can be appreciated by its ability to manage its water resource collectively. Water is a marker of civilization. It has always been an element of progress – think of the civilizations of Egypt or the Far East. The issue of water resources has three components: domestic consumption, river stretching and irrigation. In the Rhône region, in the 1980s, an enormous effort was made to irrigate the lands of the Lyon west, very close to the city, thanks to the creation of an efficient irrigation network, structured around pumping stations in the Rhône. This network would currently be impossible to finance – it could be estimated that it would cost $2 billion. Mr Minister, can we reduce the energy cost, which is increasingly important for farmers? This is the cost of electricity to raise the water from the Rhône to the hills. Mixed hydraulic agricultural trade unions organised in authorized trade unions should be provided with a reduced amount of the internal tax on final electricity consumption. Furthermore, can we reserve the rental of irrigated land for farmers? It seems important to remove from agricultural activity the rental of meadows for equidae – with a high financial yield, using little water and producing no agricultural property. As with the measures taken to encourage rental of vacant housing, the latter could eventually use the taxation of land with irrigation equipment and not used for agricultural purposes. Finally, could we facilitate the creation and management of collective collines to avoid a Shadok policy of facilitating the flow of rainwater during wet periods and pumping in dry times, at an increasing energy cost for farmers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u175	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u176	Mr President, as you have just pointed out, the issues related to water resources are particularly acute for agriculture. Water is an essential input to agriculture, threatened by climate change. She's also the first victim. As you know, a water expert cell was installed on November 14th. Under the presidency of Prefect Pierre-Étienne Bisch, she associates the CGAAER – General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas – the CGEDD – General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development – the APCA – Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture – and FNE – France nature environnement. The Commission must examine the current territorial projects, propose ways of accelerating their implementation and improving their content, and report on the lessons learned from this analysis. The report of Prefect Bisch's water cell is expected in the next few days. I pay particular attention to the respect of the working principles by the members of the cell: the search for consensus, the fulfilment of commitments, the non-instrument of the information examined and produced within the cell, as well as confidentiality. I am also attentive to the positioning of the unit and its work, whose mission is not to replace the services of the State: the responsibilities of the territorial actors, in particular in terms of the control of works and authorizations, remain unchanged. The realization of useful and sustainable projects is of particular interest to me. You have cited a few examples, including winter water storage projects to avoid dry water withdrawals when water is scarce. I hope that we move forward on these issues, that we unlock the projects that have been waiting for a very long time and undermine the ability of producers to irrigate properly while respecting the water resource. This will give them tomorrow the points of competitiveness they need for the quality of their farms. This is a strong signal for water storage that we want to carry in the context of climate change. However, there is still a need to work to improve the performance of water use in agriculture – to determine how this water resource can be properly managed. Finally, as I am doing so, I would like to see a constructive, permanent dialogue on the territories maintained. I count, of course, on the elected representatives, the representatives of the producers and all the actors concerned to participate in these exchanges with respect for each other. This will allow us to identify solutions to protect our resource, but also to develop our agricultural models on French territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u177	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u178	I am particularly attentive to peri-urban agriculture. Farmers are present not only in the vicinity but also in the metropolis of Lyon. It is important to promote these short circuits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u179	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u180	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u181	Mrs Sarles has the floor to raise her question, No 309, on the territorial organisation of social security disputes in the Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u182	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to ask you about the territorial organisation of social security disputes in the Loire department. Today, the Loire has two social security courts – TASS – one in Saint-Étienne, in the south of the department, and one in Roanne, in the north. The jurisdiction of these TASSs corresponds to the jurisdiction of the courts of general jurisdiction – TGI – of these respective cities. The law of 18 November 2016 on the modernization of justice in the 21st century transferred various disputes to the new social hubs of the courts of high instance. The joint report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and the General Inspectorate of Justice of February 2016 also recommended that the merger of the sub-departmental SSTs should not be reconsidered. Therefore, in order to reinforce the legibility of legal action in social matters and to strengthen the role of the TGIs in judicial matters, a continuation of two social courts in the Loire seems essential to me. Indeed, this department has always functioned bicephalously and the territory of Roan is very autonomous, especially because of the geography of the department. Roanne and Saint-Étienne are 85 kilometres away, the same distance as between Roanne and Lyon. In the event of the establishment of a single social pole in our department, some important towns in the district of Roanne would thus be more than 100 kilometres from their courthouse. It should also be noted that the Roanese territory is in a deteriorating social situation. The removal on the spot of social security, disability and social assistance disputes would have undeniable consequences on its litigants, who are very fragile and for whom a trip to Saint-Étienne would represent a real hindrance. Madam Keeper of the Seals, what is your position on the integration in each of the TGIs of the Loire social poles, whose creation must take place by decree before 1 January 2019?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u183	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u184	Madam Member, the reform of the social courts, carried out by the law of modernisation of the justice that you refer to in your question, is intended to put an end to the fragmentation of the social security and social assistance disputes by their transfer, by 1 January 2019 at the latest, to the TGIs that have been specially designated for this purpose. This will be a significant step forward for the litigants, who will gain in readability and simplicity but also in proximity, since the disability dispute, currently the jurisdiction of only twenty-six incapacity litigation courts, will be dealt with in each department, with at least one TGI per department. In the case of departments comprising several TGIs, the joint report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and the General Inspectorate of Justice found that the consolidation of social litigation within a single court was consistent, for the reasons I have just developed, and, above all, improved the handling of these disputes, while maintaining genuine access to justice. Therefore, as you said yourself, the law provided for a decree to designate the competent TGIs. In view of the importance of the choices to be made, for the reasons that you have mentioned, which relate in particular to the territories and the personnel involved in the rendering of this social justice, it has been decided to involve all interested parties in the reform, based on their reflections in local steering committees. In particular, they had a role in identifying difficulties and analysing the local situation in all areas of transfer. As a result of this method, all local particularities and requirements are identified and will be taken into account. In particular with regard to the designation by decree of future courts, decisions will be taken on the basis of objective elements – activity, number of agents, means of communication – which have been collected by these local committees, including representatives of TGIs, TASS, disability courts, appeal courts, departmental social welfare commissions and others. The upcoming Order-in-Council will build on the findings of these local committees to determine the list of specially designated IMTs. As long as all of these conclusions have not been exploited, I am not in a position to make known to you the arbitrations that I will have to render. I will, of course, take into account the provisions that I have set out in the Justice Reform Bill. Be assured, honourable Member, that I measure and share your commitment to the proper functioning of justice and to the accessibility of the public service of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u185	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u186	Madam Minister, in the context of this reform of the justice system which is on the way, it would be appropriate not only to keep the TASS located in the TGI of the city housing the prefecture of the department, as is the case in the Loire, in order to show that one can maintain courts in cities or secondary TGIs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u187	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to raise her question, No. 323, on the recruitment of disabled workers into the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u188	Madam Minister of Justice, my question could also have been addressed to the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, but it is a matter for all ministries and requires everyone's efforts. It concerns the recruitment of persons with disabilities into the public service. I recently had the opportunity to meet a young man, a trained lawyer, unfortunately suffering from an orphan disease and therefore enjoying the status of disabled worker. Like many other students, he tried the entrance examination of the National School of the Judiciary – ENM – in vain. A committed citizen, he fervently wants to join the public service. With the help of his adviser, Pôle Emploi, he therefore inquired about the recruitment opportunities open to persons with disabilities, described in a circular dated 15 December 2004. This internal circular, also known as "Perben Circular", complements the law of 10 July 1987 in favour of the employment of disabled workers and provides for their recruitment through two channels: the external competition under ordinary law or the contractual route. As a result of these steps, the young man in question naturally addressed the relevant services of the ENM, who told him not to be informed of the adjustments provided for in this circular, putting an end to any attempt at dialogue on this issue. This situation is symptomatic of the difficulties faced by many disabled workers, whose unemployment rate is twice the national average and was 19% in 2017. So, and while the Government announced last February its wish to simplify the employment obligation of disabled workers, could you tell me, Madam Minister, the exact percentages of disabled workers recruited through this circular – through competition and contract – in the various bodies and administrations under the Ministry of Justice in recent years? Could you also reaffirm the effectiveness of the circular Perben?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u189	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u190	Madam Member of Parliament, you are questioning the Government about how to recruit persons with disabilities in the Ministry of Justice. In general, the Ministry is, of course, under an obligation to employ at least 6 per cent of persons with disabilities. In 2016, all categories of staff in the Ministry of Justice with disabilities accounted for 5.32% of the total. This percentage is expected to increase further in 2017, with 4,429 persons falling under the obligation to employ persons with disabilities. Be assured, Madam Member, that the Department is actively pursuing efforts to develop recruitment, as well as to maintain the employment and quality of the career path of persons with disabilities. In order to promote this recruitment, an amended decree of 25 August 1995 provided for specific contractual recruitment. In 2017, the Ministry of Justice had 725 such staff, 34 of whom were staff members in category A, 234 in category B and 454 in category C. However, to date, the judiciary has not been affected by this method of recruitment, given the special status which governs its functioning. The recruitment of judicial auditors is carried out by competition or by title and there is no specific provision for the recruitment of persons with disabilities. However, special measures are taken by the jury presidents as well as by the National School of the Judiciary – I listened carefully to your comments, which seem to contradict what I say! – in compliance with the rules applicable to competitions, with a view to the organisation of the tests for the benefit of persons with disabilities. This includes, for example, additional time for a test or the setting up of specific equipment. At the end of the recruitment phase, specific arrangements are put in place for judges with disabilities, both during initial training and as part of their successive assignments. As a follow-up to the measures already taken to facilitate the recruitment and retention of judges with disabilities, the Chancellery will be required to initiate a reflection aimed at extending the channels of recruitment of judges to persons with disabilities, and to put in place any other measures that could improve the integration of disability into recruitment and retention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u191	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u192	Thank you for your answer, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and especially for its final part on possible developments in the judiciary. We are informed of the existence of arrangements for the competitions and working conditions of judges with disabilities. The developments you are referring to seem desirable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u193	Mr Luc Carvounas, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 324 concerning the proposed construction of a prison in Limeil-Brévannes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u194	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to draw your attention to the project for the construction of a suitable security prison in the municipality of Limeil-Brévannes, on land belonging to the State located in the area of La Ballastière. As part of the reform aimed at reshaping the prison system, the city of Limeil-Brévannes, located in my department of Val-de-Marne, has been appointed by the Prefect to accommodate an appropriate security prison. It is a device called "Districts of Preparation for Exit" aimed, as you know better than anyone else, at granting convicted persons a semi-freedom. While preparation for release is a crucial step in the reintegration of the detainees, the arbitrary choice of location of the future establishment intrigues Ms. Lecoufle, the mayor of the commune, and her officials, alongside whom I was in an important mobilization that brought them together, as well as the elected representatives of the left- and right-wing departments. In fact, the mayor was surprised to have been informed of the project by a simple declaration of intention of beginning the works deposited in the town hall. No prior consultation had been carried out, as the Government, regrettably once again, ignored the views of local elected officials. The Val-de-Marne department already hosts one of the largest prisons in France, Fresnes, whose state of degradation has been reported on numerous occasions. Perhaps it would be appropriate to renovate it urgently before building new ones in Val-de-Marne. In addition, this prison project is putting at risk another project, long planned by the commune and the department: that of the first urban cable car of Île-de-France, linking Villeneuve-Saint-Georges to Créteil and which is supported by the elected representatives and the population. Madam Keeper of the Seals, can you assure the elected officials, the administrators of Limeil-Brévannes and the department as well as its future users that your prison project will not affect the installation of the cable car? The latter will contribute to the development of the eco-district of La Ballastière, built several years ago. As you will have understood, the elected representatives of Val-de-Marne are concerned about plans to build prisons in their communes. They are not hostile to it, but want it to be part of dialogue and dialogue. Can you indicate whether the land located in the municipality of Limeil-Brévannes is still intended to accommodate a prison and whether other cities in Île-de-France are targeted to accommodate it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u195	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u196	Your question is the subject of my full attention, Mr Carvounas, in particular because of the need for consultation which you are referring to and which I am making of myself. As you know, in order to respond to the overcrowding we are experiencing, in addition to the overhaul of the sanction system that I will have the opportunity to present in the context of the review of the Justice Reform Bill, the President of the Republic would like us to carry out an ambitious real estate project for the prison administration. The aim is to increase from 60000 to 75000 places, including the construction of 7000 additional places by 2022. However, such an increase in capacity only makes sense if it is accompanied by a reflection on the places of confinement. That is why we propose opening, in addition to detention centres and detention centres, suitable security facilities that can accommodate detainees either with short sentences or at the end of their sentence and have demonstrated the capacity to reintegrate. We also believe that this type of real estate programme will help to combat recidivism. The consequence of such a real estate effort is the construction of new establishments, which require the acquisition of rights-of-way within the framework of specific specifications. For Île-de-France alone, it is necessary to build six establishments with adequate security. As far as Val-de-Marne is concerned, the Prefect has informed us of two possible locations, one of which is located in the town of Limeil-Brévannes. The two proposals – the second one is in Choisy-le-Roi – have just been submitted to the Public Agency for Justice Real Estate – APIJ – which has concluded that a prison facility on each of the grounds is feasible. I am informed of the opposition of the elected representatives of Limeil-Brévannes to the establishment of a prison. I understand that it is based on a desire for economic renewal of the neighbourhood in question and on the fear that you raised at the moment of a challenge to the Téléval urban cable car project. I would like to make three points. First, the selection of the site of implantation has not been stopped and studies are continuing. In addition to the initial satisfaction of the specifications laid down by the APIJ, other considerations, such as the proximity of the High Court, in order to limit the duration of judicial extractions, are also taken into account. Secondly, the establishment of a new prison must under no circumstances result in the challenge of other projects, particularly land-use planning projects. If Televal were to be prevented because of the prison project, we would give it up. Finally, I would remind you, Mr President, that the real estate effort in prison matters also contributes, through the temporary jobs resulting from the construction of the sites and by the more permanent ones created in these structures, to the revivification of the territories concerned. There can therefore be shared benefits. In any case, with regard to the project envisaged in Limeil-Brévannes, the prison administration, APIJ and my office are, I assure you, particularly vigilant with regard to the observations made by the elected representatives. We will keep all partners, including the elected representatives, informed of its developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u197	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-15-O1210.u198	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the bill to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence; Discussion of the bill to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside Parliament and to simplify the modalities of their appointment. The meeting is adjourned.
