ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on military programming for the years 2019 to 2025 and containing various provisions concerning defence (No. 659, 765, 732, 762, 761).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u2	Mr Fabien Lainé spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u3	Madam President, the Minister of Armed Forces, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, the Chairman and Rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured to convey the voice of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement on this bill of military programming, which sets out the objectives of our defence policy and the programme of military expenditure for the next seven years. I am all the more so since this text is an expression of awareness: the illusion of the end of history and the dividends of peace is behind us. With this text, the campaign commitment of the President of the Republic to gradually increase the defence budget to 2 per cent of gross domestic product will be maintained. This upsurge will strengthen a defence tool that is now very much in demand. General de Gaulle said: "The big countries are for having wanted it. This bill is, for us, a translation of that will. We need to prepare for an unstable and uncertain strategic environment. That is what this text does: it draws conclusions from the strategic review and gives our armies the means to respond to existing and future threats. In support of this will, our group wishes to clarify France's doctrine by mentioning the "integral" strategies of certain powers, which constitute a real paradigm shift: war will not be limited to military aspects; It will also be played in the economic, technological and cultural fields. If, as Clausewitz thought, "war is the domain of uncertainty", there is a certainty in which we can place our hopes: that our future is European. Our political family has insisted on this European ambition for decades. In this regard, we welcome the cooperation commitments, which make it possible to move towards a true defence Europe. Finally, if the defence falls within the reserved domain of the President of the Republic, it is necessary for the national representation to debate this LPM calmly and contribute to enriching it. With this in mind, our group will propose amendments aimed at strengthening parliamentary control. In this context, we will pay attention to the fact that neither the choice of maintaining the two components of nuclear deterrence, nor the innovation efforts, nor the establishment of the universal national service, will be at the expense of the operational capabilities and conditions of the soldiers. I would like to focus on four essential dimensions of this bill. The first was the analysis of the geostrategic context that provided the framework. The Strategic Review of Defence and National Security produced a fine analysis of the evolution of this context. It presented the threats, starting with jihadist terrorism, which remains the priority threat but is not exclusive. The world today is characterized by the affirmation of aggressive superpower states and the concomitant weakening of international institutions. The growing spread of weapons and nuclear proliferation represent renewed threats. In addition, the risks of conflict are extended to outer space and cyberspace. On this basis, the Government has proposed a return to power, confirming the two components of deterrence and strengthening intelligence and cyber defence capabilities. As the strategic environment is unstable, we will need to ensure that the ambitions and means of French defence remain appropriate to our strategic context. This is the subject of one of our amendments, which provides for an update of the strategic review by 2021. The strategic vision of France can no doubt be completed. The "integral" strategies of certain powers such as China and Russia are, in our view, not sufficiently taken into account. Similarly, the scope for reflection on nuclear strategies remains open, and outer space remains too poorly studied. To respond to these challenges, this text aims to endorse an army model presented as complete and balanced, enabling France to assert its strategic autonomy. This is its second essential dimension. This military model relies first on nuclear deterrence. It is pleased that the MPA confirms deterrence by initiating the renewal of its two components. However, we believe it is important that a democratic debate be held on this strategic subject. Our autonomy is also guaranteed by the means assigned primarily to intelligence and cyber defence, by the renewal and modernization of the pivotal operational capabilities and by the support of our industrial and technological defence base. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes these strengths. On the other hand, our group welcomes the European ambitions set out in the text, both in industrial matters and in operational terms. In this respect, initiatives such as the European Defence Fund, permanent structured cooperation and the European Intervention Initiative, promoted by the President of the Republic, must be implemented. In order to support these guidelines, we will propose to go further in filling the capacity gaps and developing European industrial cooperation. We will thus defend amendments to support the Directorate-General for Armaments in the field of human resources and an amendment to remind us of the importance of robust and rustic equipment, which is less technological but meets the concrete needs of our soldiers on the ground. I turn to the third essential dimension of this bill: the means. The ambition of a comprehensive and balanced military model to enable France to respond effectively to threats requires significant financial and human resources. In this respect, we support the effort of the executive, which proposes a lucid and sincere project. The lucidity is reflected, on the one hand, in the upward trajectory of both the budget and the staff, which gives priority to the military condition and to the strengthening of the most critical operational capabilities. It also manifests itself in the choice of European cooperation. In turn, sincerity is expressed in the exclusive use of budgetary appropriations – not in the case of hypothetical exceptional revenues – and in the realistic increase in the provision for external operations, the OPEXs. While programming is ambitious, lucid and sincere, a few points of vigilance remain. First of all, we note that a significant part of the budgetary and staffing effort covers the period after 2022. We welcome the principle contained in this bill of updating in 2021. Nevertheless, we will pay particular attention to the fact that this update does not obviate the original ambitions. In addition, it will be necessary to reflect on and take into account the evolving strategic context. We will also be vigilant about the possible eviction effects that could be caused by the renewal of the two components of deterrence to the detriment of conventional equipment or by investments in high technology to the detriment of so-called "rustic" equipment. To guard against this, Parliament's control will have to remain narrow and demanding. We tabled several amendments in committee aimed at strengthening it; We will again plead in this direction in open session. I conclude by referring to the fourth essential dimension of this LPM: the military condition and the participation of the military in civic life. The living conditions of the military and their families, as well as the conditions under which the profession of soldier has been carried out, have deteriorated considerably in recent years. Our group is therefore very satisfied with the improved living and exercise conditions provided for by the MPA. It also contributes to the revitalization of human resources, which promotes loyalty. We also welcome the opening up of military access to local elected office, which the debates in committee have allowed to expand. We are, of course, aware of the risks of politicization, which we must avoid. Our group will propose amendments to supplement the scheme. Finally, we call for the strengthening of reserves and voluntary military service, which actively contribute to the establishment of links between the nation and its army. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement enthusiastically supports this bill, which sets a true ambition for our armies. We support this LPM, which defines a coherent military model to respond to threats and ensure our strategic autonomy. This LPM affirms the need for European cooperation and contributes to the emergence of a true defence Europe. It is a lucid and sincere LPM, which gives resources to our armies in line with France's ambitions. Finally, it is a "man-size" LPM that puts the soldier at the heart of his ambitions and at the heart of society. In short, we support this recovery MPL and will support it to become, more importantly, a renewal MPL.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u4	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman and Rapporteur of the Committee, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, in France, the foreign policy introduced at the dawn of the Fifth Republic, focusing on the notions of independence, greatness and universality of values, has led our country to a strong military commitment. Today, as in the past, France's strategic autonomy, a goal repeatedly recalled in the 2017 strategic review, is linked to our ability and willingness to pay the price. The budgetary autonomy of defence therefore conditions the strategic autonomy of France. That is the equation of our national sovereignty. Also, the IUD, Action and Independent Group can only welcome this military programming bill, which finally provides for a real increase in budgetary, capacity and human resources. This is, of course, an indispensable prerequisite for the creation of an army model that ensures the security of our citizens and our territory, in the context of increasing threats, increasingly complex and, of course, increasingly lasting. While some points deserve further reflection, this bill clearly endorses a change of course, frees itself from the burdens of the past and responds to the aspirations not only of our armies as global entities, but also of our soldiers on the ground. We met them and exchanged a lot with them. I would like to take this opportunity to speak in this forum to stress one point, one point: the need to consider our military action at European level. A daughter of history and war, Europe represents the logical horizon of our defence. So far seen as a friendly but utopian idea, the construction of a Europe of defence must be relaunched or accelerated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u6	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u7	It is a gentle euphemism to recall that the threats facing France are also being made against our European neighbours. Let me quote an old and famous Member of Parliament, who was already talking about a European army: "I am going further. I'm not just saying: It's an achievable goal, I say: It's an inevitable goal, one can delay or hasten the coming of it, that's all. These words of Victor Hugo, at the Peace Congress of 1849, come to mind at the beginning of this discussion. He added: "Without losing your distinct qualities and your glorious individuality, you will blend [...] into a higher unity and you will constitute the European fraternity. That was 170 years ago. Yes, there is an urgent need to work towards a true European strategic culture. France has always played a major role in this construction and must continue its commitment to cooperation and mutualisation, with a view to creating an effect on our European partners. It is only together that we will be able to avoid technological stalls against the greats of this world who invest record amounts in their armies, against the United States whose budget is ten times higher than ours or against China, whose budget is four times ours. Especially since these developments lead to an arms race and particularly worrying demonstrations of force. Our ability to weigh, and therefore our future, will depend on our energy to develop a common industry and research. Only at this level will we seriously guarantee our sovereignty in a multipolar world where continents prevail over States. Clearly, this prism applies, in particular, to the new theatres of confrontation constituted by digital and exo-space spaces. We must work towards the interoperability of our equipment and reorganise industrial and technological cooperation by paving the way for a system of European preference. In this context, the European Defence Fund is a tremendous lever to further pool our spending and increase our military capabilities. You have easily deduced it from my remarks: the IUD, Action and Independents group broadly supports this military programming bill, which aims to partially fill the gaps of the previous decades. In conclusion, I can only invite you to bear in mind that the period 2019-2025 will offer a rare opportunity to build this Europe of defence, the "European army" which Churchill called for in 1950, "placed under the direction of a unified command" and "subject to European democratic control". As he said, four years earlier, at the University of Zurich: "Let Europe rise! This – he was right – is the best guarantee of peace, stability and security. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Seventy years later, we have the opportunity to write one of the most beautiful pages in contemporary history. Let's not forget it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u9	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I will not recall the broad guidelines provided for in this text, on which the Minister has returned. I welcomed several decisions such as the increase and acceleration of certain equipment programs or the attention given to infrastructure, the condition of the member and the families. This law of military programming must enable us to make our citizens aware of the need to strengthen our security, given the sometimes unpredictable international situation and the threats we face. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all our soldiers risking their lives on all the grounds where we are engaged. The discussion in committee allowed for some progress. The adoption of Article 6 bis excluding the "Defence" mission from the scope of Article 17 of the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022 is a point to be stressed. Another positive element is the adoption of our amendment concerning respect for net neutrality in the face of the new provisions offered to telecommunications operators. However, some questions that I had been able to raise remain pending, as we approach the discussion of the text in session. If we agree on the results we expect from this LPM, the real subject remains and will remain its annual implementation in the financial laws. The question therefore arises of the distribution of budgetary increases. As you reminded us, minister, these are firm commitments on 2019-2023 with a review in 2021 to adjust the trajectory. I have therefore proposed with my group to smooth these increases over the years 2019-2025, with an amount of 2.2 billion in the first phase, then 2.4 billion, in order to look at the future of our armies more regularly over the whole period, by favoring the least uncertain years. You told us that the percentage increase of $1.7 billion would be a 5% increase in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, and the increase of $3 billion would be a 7% increase in recent years. The gap, you will say, is only two points. However, the amount will almost double in the most distant years, whose commitments are not firm. Last point: some colleagues in the majority group have told us that these increases should be sustainable. I understand that very well. That is the aim of our amendments: to improve the distribution and thus the sustainability of the effort. For all these reasons, it seems to me that our group's amendment will offer additional guarantees. The smoothing would focus some of the efforts over the period 2019-2023, thus the closest to us, the most predictable, the one on which the commitments are firm. We would thus reduce uncertainty and risk of disappointing the military in the event of international hazards. Do not delay efforts also responds to the need for sincerity. I now turn to the budget for external operations and internal missions. France's commitments are still numerous, as we know, in Iraq, Syria and the Sahel, particularly in Mali, not to mention Operation Sentinel. Adapting to real needs was necessary. In particular, it will avoid imposing indirect funding of OPEX on the 146 "Equipment of Forces" program through freezes. However, this increase amounts to entrusting the defence of our territory to the military budget alone, which risks amputating by a few hundred million euros some of the increases decided upon, as well as the investment capacity of the ministry. Another point of vigilance is the ambition set out in the annexed report to reduce the carry-over of charges between 2019 and 2025. The path set out, which I welcome, is ambitious because of the investment projects contained in the attached report. I would also like us to be able to complete the text. First, an effort must be made to improve the attractiveness and loyalty of our military. In the face of very interesting private offers, we must be able to attract talent. The revalorisation of remuneration will have to be considered. Secondly, it seems to me important to open up the possibility of improving the defence cadet system, which is welcomed by the reports of the Commission Armées-Jeunesse. This unknown system is supported by participants and mentors. He must be supported. The New Left Group will therefore defend amendments to these measures. We have taken note of your firm commitment not to weigh the future compulsory universal national service on the budgets of the armies. Finally, it is central to recall that all the decisions that will be taken in the coming years and that are set out in this LPM will of course have to take account of the strengthening of European cooperation, in particular through the European Defence Fund and permanent structured cooperation. The strengthening of the industrial and technological defence base or the introduction of a new concept of a rapid response force, which corrects the shortcomings of tactical groups, are all avenues to be explored. We therefore approach this discussion with the desire to continue to strengthen the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u11	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this military programming bill outlines the budget path for our armies from 2019 to 2025. The stakes are therefore immense and this law is desolating. She's desolating because she's got no ideas. It is desolating because it is in the continuity of the previous ones. It is desolating because we thought the numbers before we thought the doctrine and the needs. It is desolating because instead of preparing for the future, it barely repairs the past. First, this law is not the collective work that the subject requires. The whole nation is interested, but on these great subjects, the decisions were made by one man. The objective of raising the budget to 2% of GDP by 2025 has been validated first. That it has no military significance in itself will not have changed anything. To comply with NATO injunctions and/or to have an easy communication element, the decision was quickly taken. Yet we will not stop repeating it: doctrine should be first and the means defined according to it, not the other way around. The President of the Republic resolved the issue of nuclear deterrence from the preface of the strategic security and defence review. He decided alone in favour of the renewal of the two components, air and ocean. From now on, it will be like before. In this case, renewing the status quo represents an expenditure of 25 billion or, according to some, 37 billion. This is why the budget increase claimed will not take place. Such a decision commits us for at least sixty years to a strategy that can prove obsolete in fifteen! Whether it was urgent or incontestable, but the debate is far from closed among the specialists. By the way, we didn't want to hear them. This decision has also not been put in perspective with developments in the world. The technological advances of the major powers could call into question the relevance of deterrence in the medium term. Our doctrine was undermined by the installation of the American anti-missile shield accepted by François Hollande. Donald Trump has shown his will to develop tactical nuclear weapons. In the face of this situation, how can we preserve our security without taking part in the bid and relaunch a disastrous arms race? No one claims that there are easy answers to these questions. Again, we have to accept to pose them. But no, the President prefers the announcement effects. His goal? The minister recalled this: to be the second military power in the free world – behind the United States, should we clarify that? It is to think in the terms of the cold war. It's at least thirty years late. This kind of slogan really does not allow us to think calmly of our defence. On the contrary, it guarantees that we will stick to the old fetishes of power and the old moons, absurd and dangerous, of the theory of the clash of civilizations. And that is the case: this LPM is doing everything possible to make France the right student of NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u14	Some are flattered to be able to be accompanied by the US hyperpower. The statement made in committee by the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is instructive: she admits that she wrote her report by putting herself "in the place of our allies". It would have been better to represent the nation than to think of defending the interests of our friends. I think their Members are doing it very well. The corollary of this attitude towards NATO is, of course, the zealous promotion of this chimera, the Europe of defence – a chimera, since a defence policy must be the result of a sovereign people with democratic institutions. But there is not a European people, but European peoples,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u16	...and few democratic institutions. Moreover, disagreements between governments, technical disparities between States are such that systematic military cooperation cannot develop there, except to the detriment of a duped nation. And we don't want France to be that dupe! If the Government does not want to do so either, what we can hope for, then it is the magic thought that reigns when we mention in the attached report an increase of 36 per cent – what a precision! – European industrial cooperation in the field of defence. In fact, at the origin of this delusional objective lies above all the opportunistic desire to satisfy large groups with illusory European financing. Because this LPM is at their service first. Deterrence makes them look good. And because of a false and dangerous technological bias, it makes choices that serve the big industrialists rather than the interests of the country. Extremely expensive interconnected equipment is preferred, with exorbitant maintenance costs, and the utility of which is not even proven. Indeed, as technological complexity grows, vulnerability also increases. From the tactical advantages it gives, technology does not guarantee that they will be transformed into decisive strategic benefits. In asymmetrical conflicts where we are engaged, our enemies fight, if I may say so, with "high-tech" weapons of fortune. They are well aware of waging an economic war. We too should be aware of this and be able to tell our fellow citizens without taking them for children. If certain Powers wish to embark on the arms race, we must be able to assume quietly that we will not follow them, instructed by this strategy, which aims, in order to guarantee his hegemony, to set a pace that others will not be able to follow. We do not engage in the necessary intellectual and organizational transformations. While we must work to improve our country's resilience to new threats, this LPM remains stubbornly focused on external operations. Without ever questioning the real benefits of the very suspicious intervention in Libya, of the interventions in the Sahel – or even in Syria, where, in the end, we are letting our most loyal allies, the Kurds, perish – without ever having questioned you about the strategic effects of these interventions, and although the strategic review points out that the rate of commitment in recent years has been exceptional, you submit to us an LPM postulating that this commitment will remain the same over the next few years. Well, we affirm that we need a moratorium on external interventions that are not vital. We must stop seeing the defence of France everywhere other than in France. Regeneration of forces will not be possible at this rate, when, as I said, nuclear deterrence will increase any increase in the budget. We must now pause and concentrate efforts in a few areas that will guarantee our sovereignty and actually prepare us for future wars. This is a necessary condition if we do not want to have to deliver them and, a fortiori, to lose them. Thus, we should ensure our superiority in the aerospace field, so that it does not become a kind of Far West. We should also emphasize the means that will guarantee our sovereignty over our maritime domain – the first in the world – which is particularly threatened by the consequences of the ecological crisis. But from that, the LPM says almost nothing. It does, however, refer to intelligence and cyber issues and present them as novelties. But what's new? They were already mentioned in the previous White Paper. The previous Minister of Defence had already made it a priority. But with what effect? You mustn't expect anything more with this law! At the pace of the planned transformations, in eight years' time, we will barely reach a workforce of 4000 people assigned to the cyber domain, which is very insufficient. We need a profound transformation of procedures, which will bypass the cyber risk, but also set up a real cyber army. Germany, which is so often your model, is in the process of catching up, but we prefer to sleep away from our Maginot line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u18	In the area of intelligence, the increase in recruitment could occur after 2023. In the meantime, we rely on the miracles of technology, we make offerings to the god "artificial intelligence", while women and men must be mobilized, and quickly, well. On the other hand, 400 recruitments are planned to continue supporting arms exports. This is an aberrant figure, especially when it comes to supplying the infamous criminal regimes of the Gulf monarchies. There is an urgent need to put private interests at the service of the community. The truth is, what's missing from all this LPM is the concern of the community, it's the people. Civic spirit is the condition for resisting a violent shock and popular involvement the means to sustain a long-term conflict.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u20	What an astonishment that the great promise of the presidential campaign, the universal national service, is not included in the programming bill! What hypocrisy does it take to claim that such projects cannot affect the military budget? This power is well embarrassed when it comes to the people. On the universal national service, that improvisations and delays! Indeed, the first resource of a people to guarantee its security and sovereignty lies within itself. It lies in the high level of awareness and training of the women and men who make up it. It is due to society's ability to leave none, none in disinherence, in the margins of itself or in abandonment. The first resource of a people is the existence of a strong and structured democratic State, capable of taking initiatives, organizing passive defence and mobilizing citizens to counter possible blows to the country, whether military, economic, cyber or terrorist. Indeed, we are far from it: the Government is about to slash the property of the State in all areas where it is still present. Where did we see the need for a stunted state to defend a territory and a population? The people must be given the means to act for their own protection. With a truly paid, universal, mixed service, all the intelligences of the country – encoders, engineers, workers – each and every one of them will one day contribute to the service of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u21	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u22	The link between the army and the nation it would restore would also be a democratic guarantee...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u23	Your time has expired!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u24	I conclude, Madam President. Finally, it is a guarantee against adventurous interventionist policies. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] On all these subjects, the LPM is desperately insufficient. It actually serves a political vision of matamore, this military fanfare of Italian comedy, the one who constantly says: "you will see what you will see". Well, we saw; There's really nothing to pavoise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u25	That's right! Well spoken, bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u26	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u27	[[Smile]] That's heavy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u28	Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025 comes in a context of rising international tensions highlighted since the 2013 Defence White Paper and the 2017 Strategic Review. These tensions are increasingly concentrated in the Middle East, and particularly in Syrian territory, where Iran is facing Israel. For their part, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia are attacking Yemen, giving birth, with French weapons, to the worst humanitarian crisis today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u30	The alliance games evolve according to events, with the king makers of Turkey, Russia and the United States. In Africa, France is very involved in limiting terrorism. After participating in making the Libyan state hell, the French army is now trying to save the furniture in the Sahel. The provocations of the powers signify a return to the international policy of brute power, of the hard power, which rests on the muscles. Joint NATO exercises at Russia's borders or the movement of Russian aircraft within the European Union's airspace are, for example, factors of tension. These wars and pressures are numerous. It is they, Madam Minister, who, in your opinion, would justify – with, I would add, accents of Napoleonic epic – the rearmament of France, the increase in the budget of the French army and our nuclear deterrence. It is in this tense international context that Trump's doctrine flourishes. NATO, he told us, must be strengthened, and to strengthen itself, we must have a defence budget of 2% of GDP. It doesn't matter if that figure was found between pear and cheese; It doesn't matter that it doesn't correspond to anything serious; It does not matter whether the defence budget is accounted for everywhere in the same way; Whatever... you have to hang on to that star! And President Macron, in his obsession with impressing his counterparts, hastened to be Mr Trump's good student. The master of clocks has decided: the 2% will be in 2025. Yet, these 2 per cent are only there to operate the military-industrial complex. We know the current White House subject to the various lobbys; That of armament is his first rope. Trump's reaffirmed desire that NATO members raise their defence budget to 2% of GDP is reminiscent of President Eisenhower's very famous prediction: "... we must be careful to acquire an illegitimate influence, whether sought or not, by the military-industrial complex. The risk of a disastrous development of usurped power exists and will persist. » We are not so far from what Henri Barbusse wrote in the words of a fighter: "...we know that war is a means used by an international caste, greedy and ferocious, to steal wealth and glory by the countless donkeys of the poor and sacrificed. We know that, as long as this same caste leads its own affairs through the human flesh, wars will come out of one another, until total ruin, until the mass grave, until silence. » Beyond the desire to favour the defence industries, how does this 2% figure correspond to the real needs of the French army? Without a proper audit of the needs of the army, without a thorough consultation on the concrete needs of the military, their families and staffs, this law of programming may be based only on sand. It is not enough to communicate on a law "to the height of man", or on the "renewal of operational capabilities" for this LPM to reach its target. If the needs are real within the army, if the operational capabilities need to be renewed, then we have to ask ourselves what choices have led to the current situation. It is true, Madam Minister, that you have done this analysis this afternoon in your response to some of the interventions. In order to avoid any misinterpretation of my remarks, I would remind you that we ask that all public servants have the best working conditions. We therefore look forward to the substantial increase in material and personnel costs for the military, with the same demands as for health, education or justice. But why increase the recruitment of soldiers while the international context is currently leaning on the side of the disengagement of troops in the fight against Daesh, and on the side of disengagement in Mali for the benefit of the G5 Sahel army? Why not feed a more measured ambition in terms of projection in OPEX, so that the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces becomes more effective? And why not limit the totally inconsiderate investment in deterrence to better control the increase in the defence budget? In the context of the extremely strong budgetary constraint imposed on us, while nuclear spacecraft launchers, M51 and ASMPA missiles or the Rafale F3 are at the beginning of their lives, why invest so much? What is the point of developing new nuclear missiles with a better range and accuracy? Could we not instead invest these strenuous amounts in the faster replacement of equipment, some of which have been used for more than thirty or even forty years, such as Alouette III or attack submarines? Is it not more urgent to invest in everyday equipment than in a missile that will never have to be used? French nuclear deterrence has not even been discussed upstream of the MPA. We have learned this from the wishes of the President of the Republic to the armies: the debate on military nuclear power has been settled. But no Gordian knot! There was nothing to decide, since there was no debate! On the other hand, let me say here how scandalous I find that the details of investments in French nuclear deterrence are not even known to parliamentarians. What are these investments? What is the exact, real sum dedicated to nuclear deterrence?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u31	He's brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u32	Thank you, dear Jean Lassalle, even if some don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u33	Please continue, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u34	Unnecessary spending on deterrence, the esoteric 2% target and NATO enslavement are all reasons for our reluctance to vote on this law. To this, we must add the current threats to the maintenance in operational condition – MCO. We look forward to a bold and strong law concerning this system: we must value our French industry in order to maintain our strategic independence, and fight for the future of defence Europe not to mean, as is generally the case in the European Union, a wild competition from all economic sectors. We could then lose a lot of independence and national sovereignty. If, in the course of our current history, defence Europe represents a more logical horizon than NATO, detached from the contingencies of the Cold War, we will still have to be very wary of industrial moves that could be made at the expense of our know-how and French florets. With regard to the MCO, the change in the legal regime of the Aeronautics Industrial Service – SIAé – advocated by the Shabbert report is worrying: it is the first step in the privatisation of this sector. This will result in mergers with foreign industries and the loss of independent maintenance capacity. The other provisions of the MPA are more like a regiment of legislative horsemen than a budget act: amendments to the Code of Public Procurement and the Code of Military Disability Pensions and War Victims, provisions on armaments, and I am moving on. All this seems very confusing and suggests that we wanted to do it quickly by diluting the discussions. Would it be to hide the consequences of legislative developments? This would not have been the case if each of the subjects had been specific or had been the subject of legislation independent of each other. The finding is not new: the Macron method is based on eagerness, lack of consultation with stakeholders and legislative complexity. That is why it is unbearable. I will not go back to the work in committee, particularly on the hearings, because I spoke about it earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In the end, designing a law of military programming up to the level of man seems to us to go in the right direction. I repeat, we would like that to be the case for the entire public service! But the method and certain points of this LPM, such as deterrence or obsession with the 2% imposed by NATO, will not allow us to vote on it as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u35	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman and rapporteur of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just begun to examine this decisive text for our armies, each and every one has in mind the strength and courage of all these women and men who have decided to serve our country, to commit themselves, to fulfil the tasks that France has entrusted to them. While our armies have been incredibly successful in reforming, adapting, operating in full efficiency and holding their ranks perfectly, they have, however, been subjected to very tight financial resources and personnel, to the resulting capacity impasses, and to more, harsher and more distant operations. This situation could no longer be sustained. The balance of the world has changed over time. Terrorism has hit us very hard and the threat remains, less visible, but subdued and ubiquitous. The new ecological, economic and ideological stakes generate an important and continuous rise in sovereignism and isolationism in all its forms, and a return to power of the powerful states. France is a great military nation: it is the second army of the free world,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u37	But what free world?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u38	... the first European army, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and it has deterrence. Our model is complete and must remain so, because that is why France's voice is on the international stage. Protecting, looking ahead, building structured cooperation through major projects are also the ambitions contained in this military programming. Its stakes are major: they are technological and strategic, but also and above all human because – let us never forget – those who are always on the front line are our soldiers! As per the Strategic Review, our five strategic functions are strengthened. Two of them are even strengthened: knowledge and anticipation, as well as prevention. Only a strong France, master of its destiny, can respond to contemporary crises, promote its values and promote its interests. Because France must be ready to intervene and defeat wherever its interests are threatened and where the international situation requires it, the President of the Republic has set the ambitious course of devoting, by 2025, 2% of our GDP to defence. The peculiarity of this budget lies in the choice that has been made to invest massively and quickly, in order to prevent our capacity breakdowns as quickly as possible, rather than to sprinkle our resources over time. Restore the model quickly and quickly achieve visible operational effects, whether for outfits, helmets, SCORPION program, refuellers, patrollers, or deterrence: this is the trajectory of this programming. Another feature of this budget is its "sincerization". With a steady increase until 2023, political will is well on the table, without detours. Funding for our external operations will now also be "sincised" to the tune of 1.1 billion as of 2020. It is our autonomy to act calmly, lucidly, and responsibly. Thus, as envisaged in the strategic review, our model will be dimensioned to intervene simultaneously, if necessary, in three distinct theatres of external operations. Finally, the law provides for an assessment of the application of the law in 2021. By paying unprecedented attention to the women and men who serve in our armies as well as their families, thanks in particular to the strengthening of the family plan, this programming bill is also undeniably at the level of man – it is new enough to underline it. It includes, among other things, the creation of a net balance of 6,000 full-time equivalent positions by 2025. It provides for the renewal of our operational capabilities to put an end to the shortcomings of the past and to prepare for the future. It makes the choice of France's strategic autonomy, with increased resources for intelligence and cyber defence, while relying on smart and enhanced European cooperation. Finally, it paves the way for the modernisation of armies, which will be more innovative, and the revitalisation of our weapons programmes, on topics such as digital, artificial intelligence or drones, including the investment of EUR 1 billion per year in this segment alone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we absolutely must achieve the ambition of having a complete and balanced military model capable of guaranteeing our excellence and efficiency in the face of all threats and in all spaces. The efforts of the nation, as of this year, force us to succeed. This military programming bill offers us the full means, and I have every confidence in the determination of the Government and the effectiveness of our armies in achieving it. That is why, for the French, for our security, for our freedom, the La République en marche group will vote, with vigour and unequivocal, on this text, which marks a historic return to power of our armed forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u39	Fourteen million euros a day for deterrence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u40	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u41	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee and rapporteur, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025, which we are starting to examine today, bears the mark of the President of the Republic: the dress is shimmering, the promotion campaign has been intense and well relayed, but the content is not up to the intentions displayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u42	As always!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u43	It is necessary to start from a double observation. First, our country has never faced so many threats since the end of the cold war. The strategic review led by Arnaud Danjean highlighted several perils: the ravages of terrorism, both outside and on our soil; the return of the powerful states – Russia, China, Turkey, Iran – that are pursuing a policy of force and calling into question UN arbitration; destabilization, in the Sahelo-Saharan band, in the Middle East and on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, caused by political and religious conflicts, famine, climate change and subsequent migration;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u44	It's just chatter! There's no background!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u45	... the very rapid development of new technologies, particularly in the cyber domain, which diminishes the technological superiority of Western armies; Finally, the threats to our maritime spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u46	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u47	The second observation is that of the wear and tear of our armies: they are breathless. While the new threats were perceptible as early as 2013,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u48	Not before?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u49	... Mr. Hollande's governments and those who supported him did not draw the consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u50	There are many of them in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u51	The downsizing continued until 2016. The non-renewal of equipment leads to the use of out-of-age equipment by our soldiers. The armoured front vehicles – VAB –, the armoured cannon-wheels, the tankers are more than thirty years old. As for the supply planes, they are more than fifty years old!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u52	What did you do? Not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u53	But it is above all the engagement of our forces in two major external operations, in the Sahelo-Saharan band and in the Middle East, to which are added the internal security operations, which have resulted in premature wear and tear of the equipment, insufficient maintenance in operational condition, a degraded availability rate – often less than 50% –, sacrifices on training and training, and especially the fatigue of men and families. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to pay a solemn tribute to their dedication. On the basis of this observation, is the military programming for the years 2019 to 2025 that you are proposing up to the challenges we face?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u55	At this point, you will allow me to use the image of half-full glass and half-empty glass. To your credit, of course, I carry "the reversal of the curve", as Mr Hollande might have said, which some of you know well. You show your intention to increase the defence effort to 2% of GDP in 2025. This is a legitimate objective, even though the chairman of the Finance Committee has said what to think about the method of calculation. I also welcome the renunciation of exceptional revenues – of which we have seen that they are never made – to finance expenditure. The increase in the number of staff – an increase of 6000 over the duration of the programme, mainly in the intelligence and cyber-defence sector – is also a good thing, as is the attention paid to the condition of staff, their individual equipment and families. Finally, we support the studies carried out on some of the new major programmes: the future carrier; the future air combat system; the renewal of nuclear launcher submarines; the maintenance of the airborne component of our nuclear deterrence. However, all objective observers did not fail to see the glass also half empty. First of all, you remove any credibility from your programming by putting the bulk of the effort on the presidential mandate that will follow that of Mr Macron. Indeed, the military budget will increase by 1.7 billion euros in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, and then there will be a 3 billion euro march in 2023, 2024 and 2025. So your successors will pay. Logically, the same pass-by trick is reflected in the increase in the number of men: an increase of 1500 during Mr. Macron's quinquennium, compared to 4500 during the next term. Secondly, we have the greatest doubts about the possibility of financing both the major 2030 programmes and the immediate needs of our armies and troops. My colleague Marianne Dubois demonstrated this. Thirdly, it should be noted that much of the announced increase in budgetary appropriations will be absorbed by the "OPEX provision", which will increase from 650 million to 1.1 billion euros in 2023. This deprives you of the opportunity to have other departments contribute to the funding of the incremental cost, as was done before. Fourthly, I must say, Madam Minister, that your definition of what a European defence policy could be and its link with NATO left me a little on my hunger. I do not complain about this and gladly agree that the exercise is difficult. On most of the benches in this House, we are committed to the construction of Europe and to our membership of the Atlantic Alliance. We also know how the United States is helping our operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u56	Depends on which one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u57	At the same time – if you allow me to use this expression in principle reserved for the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u58	[[Smile]] Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u59	... we must preserve our strategic autonomy, which requires the maintenance of a strong national or European arms industry. Finally, and above all, I would like to stress a major uncertainty about the implementation and sincerity of your military programming bill. The creation of a compulsory universal national service, if confirmed, will cost several billion euros a year and will not be able to do without the assistance of the military. Will it be financed, in whole or in part, from the budget of the armies? If that is the case, you know that your building is collapsing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u60	We have already answered this question! You're not listening to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u61	Despite all our efforts, we have not been able to obtain this clarification in this bill. Several amendments tabled by members of the Republican Group will therefore lead the Government to take a position on this central issue. Finally, I would like to point out that the military programming bill, while an indispensable exercise of reflection and anticipation, is not legally binding on the Government or on its majority. [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Only the initial financial laws passed annually can translate into action the intentions expressed in the military programming law, even if their binding nature must be relativized. We all remember the cancellation by the President of the Republic of 850 million euros of appropriations yet included in the 2017 budget, which led to the resignation of General de Villiers, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u62	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u63	What a shortcut!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u64	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u65	Only Mr de la Verpillière has the floor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u66	I know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that it is painful for you to hear truths like this! Similarly, the freezing and thawing of credits during the year by Bercy makes the fulfilment of the commitments made by the Government completely uncertain. All of this leads us to hope that Parliament will closely monitor the implementation of the military programming law over the course of the annual budgets. In this regard, your reluctance, Minister, to explain precisely what really happened at the end of the 2017 fiscal year is not a good augury. Similarly, we still do not know whether the Government accepts that section 17 of the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 capping the amount of leftovers to be paid does not apply to the military budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u67	It's in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, it's not too late. The debate may help to remove these many inaccuracies and ambiguities. We'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u69	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u70	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee and rapporteur, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to discuss this evening a text that will commit our nation's finances for the next seven years by devoting almost EUR 300 billion to our armed forces. As we increase our efforts to reduce our public deficits, I am sure our fellow citizens are wondering whether it is truly legitimate to spend so much to prepare for war...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u71	Instead of treating people in hospitals? That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u72	... in a world that aspires more than ever to preserve peace. The answer – probably not the answer you are waiting for, dear colleague – is in the words of our Chief of Staff: "The army is not there to wage war, it is there first to avoid it." For the dream of perpetual peace, caressed in the aftermath of the cold war, lived. Habited by the hope that the fall of the Iron Curtain would now make it possible to settle disputes by law, our Western nations have reduced their defence budgets massively. Ours, which still represented 4% of GDP at the dawn of the 1980s, was 1.7% of GDP in 2015. This situation has become perilous because of the resurgence of threats. Al-Qaeda, Afghanistan, Daesh, Russia's annexation of Crimea, the crises in Donbass and the Sahel made us understand how far away the ideal of total peace was. This is why the text before us today focuses first of all on the modernization of our equipment: on land, with the delivery of 122 renovated Leclerc tanks, 150 Jaguar vehicles and 936 Griffon vehicles under the SCORPION programme; at sea, with five new frigates and four new nuclear attack submarines and the launch of studies on a new aircraft carrier; in the air, with that of twenty-eight new Rafale, fifty-five renovated Mirage 2000 D, eleven MRTT refuelling aircraft, eleven new A 400M, twenty-four new drones and thirty-five new NH 90 helicopters; Finally, with the launch of new systems for image-based intelligence and electromagnetic intelligence comprising two new MUSIS satellites and a new CERES system. In addition to these new equipment, we would like to mention the modernization of our nuclear deterrence with the commissioning of the M51.3 missile.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u73	What's all this for?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u74	These supplies of equipment will be accompanied by an important component of infrastructure modernization aimed at improving the daily lives of the soldier and his family, both in terms of housing, bases and small equipment. Thus, this man-made military programming bill should make it possible to better retain civilian and military personnel. Finally, it also has an important "cyber" component dedicated to the new field on which the battle moves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u75	And for this "cyber" part, do we need the atomic bomb?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u76	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, after twenty-five years of downsizing and the operational capacity of our equipment, our country is giving itself the means to ensure the proper defence of the French and Europeans. This is the framework which the debate now deserves because, from our action against Daesh to the Levant, to the stabilization of Africa carried out in the Sahel, to the measures of reinsurance in the face of Russia's appetites, it is indeed the defence of European interests that the French army is providing today. However, while this bill is an undeniable step forward, which you deserve, Madam Minister, and the President of the Republic, unfortunately it cannot make up for the delay that has taken place over the decades of poverty and at the same time prepare for the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u78	While the advent of artificial intelligence associated with the quantum computer could lead, on the battlefield, to a revolution comparable to that initiated by the use of gunpowder in the 15th century, we will have to mobilize research and development credits to meet these challenges. Can France do it alone while China spends 150 billion euros on artificial intelligence and the United States relies on the power of Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft and other IBMs? It's unlikely. The satisfaction of passing a winback bill should not, therefore, reduce our guard. It is within the European framework that we will have to act tomorrow, particularly with regard to industry and research, and therefore define a policy to build the tools that guarantee our superiority in combat. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] It is only at this price that we will secure our sovereignty. Only at this price will we maintain the credibility of our army. Only at this price can we win without fighting, by deterring our enemies from attacking us. Only at this price can we guarantee the peace to which our fellow citizens aspire. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the meantime, let us not spoil our pleasure and vote in favour of the best military programming that we have had to know for twenty-five years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u79	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u80	Madam Chair, Minister, Secretary of State, Chair of the Commission, and draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, in order to evaluate the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025, our group has three angles, or rather three questions. First question: does it achieve the objective which the President of the Republic committed himself to in his electoral campaign of devoting to the defence of budgetary appropriations amounting to 2% of our national wealth, therefore of our GDP?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u82	The answer is no, for several reasons. First, budgetary appropriations are defined in current euro. In a way, you note that you will not benefit from the defence of economic recovery, Minister. Based on current economic forecasts, defence budget appropriations will be at best 1.8 percentage points of GDP by 2020, far from the 2 points promised by the President of the Republic. In addition, you carry over most of the budget effort for defence after 2022. It seems curious to us that you are making commitments on behalf of those who might succeed you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u83	That's the rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u84	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u85	You have to be ahead of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u86	For all these reasons, the military programming bill you are proposing does not achieve the objective set by the President of the Republic. In order to help you, our group has therefore tabled an amendment to speed up the objectives of the text year after year, so that expenditure on defence can reach 2 points of GDP by 2025. In considering the text in the Committee on Finance, the draftsman rejected the amendment, arguing that it is probably too ambitious. He implicitly acknowledged that your proposed military programming falls short of the objectives set by the President of the Republic during his election campaign. Second question: Is the military programming bill sincere? In other words, is it in line with the public finance programming law for the years 2018 to 2022 that you voted three months ago, ladies and gentlemen of the majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u88	The answer is also no. Here are two proofs of this. Firstly, in the Committee on Finance, the draftsman of the opinion expressed an opinion against the amendment allowing defence budget appropriations to reach 2 points of GDP in 2025, on the grounds that it did not comply with the law on public finance programming. In other words, it undermines your defence ambition. On the other hand, it is interesting to note that the rapporteur has had the Defence Committee adopt an amendment on leftovers – now Article 6a – which contradicts the programming of public finances for the years 2018 to 2022, which your group voted for less than three months ago! The third question: does military programming involve structural progress for our armies?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u89	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u90	The answer is more mixed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u91	It's the glass half full!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u92	As far as OPEX is concerned, it is a first step. Thus, instead of entering EUR 400 million in the budget each year for the OPEX – which generally spends more than EUR 1 billion – the text plans to include EUR 650 million in 2018, and an additional EUR 200 million each year, in order to reach a budget of EUR 1.1 billion. While the effort deserves to be welcomed, several questions arise. Why stick to 1.1 billion euros when the expenditure induced by the OPEX is likely to reach around 1.4 billion euros in 2017? Will the inter-ministerial level, which finances the surplus of expenditure induced by the OPEXs – the difference between actual expenditure of around EUR 1 billion and the EUR 400 million budgeted – continue to operate once the planned budget of EUR 1.1 billion has been spent? What commitments can you make on this, Minister? If we look at the progress made on OPEX, it is regrettable that the same is not true for equipment. Summary figures show that the budget appropriations for defence cover half of the staff and half of the equipment and investments. As far as materials are concerned, the price depends very largely on the level of our expenditure. However, as far as pricing is concerned, the national representation has no visibility in assessing the pilotage you are conducting, Madam Minister, which is very damaging. The members of our group have therefore also tabled an amendment on this point. Finally, it is equally regrettable that the military programming bill does not make any progress on the relationship between subcontracting SMEs and the major defence groups to which public procurement is awarded. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] As our colleague Joaquim Pueyo said earlier, the members of our group have sought to analyse your text objectively. We have tabled several amendments aimed at correcting the shortcomings which I have mentioned. We hope, Madam Minister, that you will give a favourable opinion on these proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u93	Mr François André has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u94	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on a law of military programming is to set a course, a budgetary horizon, and thus give the necessary visibility – to our soldiers of course, to the defence community as a whole, and to the nation more broadly. Each military programming defines the most appropriate balance between the budgetary requirement of the present and the response to risks and threats. The concept of programming is contemporary with that of deterrence; It has gradually translated the military model considered desirable by planning, on a budgetary level, the evolution of its various aggregates: material capacities, personnel and operational contracts. Since professionalization, this military model is based on tight but highly available forces, capable of exploiting all the possibilities of increasingly complex weapons systems. It has been said, on every bench: our army is competent and valorous. But, admittedly, the retrospective analysis of the very partial execution of successive LPMs since the 1990s inevitably raises the question of the sustainability of such an army model. A dreadful scissor effect has emerged between highly small numbers, often aging materials, and a contrast to growing numbers of external interventions and the development of hybrid forms of war, not to mention the return of an internal threat. That is precisely the merit, minister, of the bill that you are presenting to us: to re-converging ambitions and means. It is a guarantee of the credibility of our military model. This LPM is virtuous: it repairs; she is sincere; She's planning for the future. First, it will increase the availability of materials, doubly affected by ageing and intensity of use. The average increase of EUR 1 billion per year, as well as the reorganization of the maintenance of operational conditions, are at the service of this ambition. But reparation is also done at the human level. The figures are here: in the period covered by the last two LPMs, nearly 54,000 jobs were abolished. In the spirit of the re-emergence decided in the aftermath of the Paris attacks, this bill clearly focuses on the creation of personnel, mainly in the field of cyber and intelligence; However, these new flexibilities will also have to strengthen certain support functions, which have been heavily used for the last ten years. Some, to the right of the Chamber, accuse you, Madam Minister, of not going fast enough, far enough and strong enough in the uphill. There's no shortage of salt, so...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u95	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u96	... coming from those who accepted between 2008 and 2012 – general review of public policies obliges – 31600 job cuts in the armies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u97	It concerned not only the armies, but also the school and the entire public service!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u98	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jean-Michel Jacques applauds]] If the debate is legitimate, memory, ladies and gentlemen, should invite some to a little humility.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u99	[[Smile]] The speaker could also show a little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u100	You used to be on the left side of the House! You voted too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u101	This law also introduces more sincere programming. This is not an accounting charm, but the essential condition for dealing with the hazards and making the ambitions of our defence tool effective. This is the whole meaning of the gradual increase in the OPEX provision, whose structural under-calibration puts the rest of the implementation, and in particular programme 146, at risk annually. The non-use of exceptional recipes is also a guarantee of sincerity, as we know that, in the past, and without throwing the stone to anyone, they were far from being all at the meeting when the time came. The "sincerization" will finally have to be facilitated by a limitation of the budget freeze, which began as early as the 2018 Finance Act, which will increase the budgetary visibility of the armies and will mitigate the carry-overs of charges from year to year, carrying forwards that cumulatively fuel the budget bump. Finally, this LPM sets out a path to match our ambitions for the 2030 horizon, speeding up the capacity endowments deemed priority and studying the major structuring programs for the coming decades – future aircraft carriers, renewal of deterrence, or future air combat system. The increase of more than a third of upstream study credits will usefully finance innovation, an absolute guarantee of operational superiority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, some say that the art of politics is "to make what is desirable possible": certainly, this LPM is part of this vision of things. That is why we fully support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u102	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u103	Finally, an Alsatian and pragmatic point of view!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u104	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur and the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be pleasant: yes, the military programming law has commendable objectives, including budgetary objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u106	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u107	The opposition Member I am is in no way embarrassed to say it here. That being said, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will not be too embarrassed to hear some less warm comments. First of all, I call for caution. France enjoys an exceptional global economic climate: strong growth, low energy costs, historically low interest rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u108	There's money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u109	But it would be enough for real rates to rise by one or two points for the French budgetary equation to become insoluble. Despite firm positions, I do not give expensive defence budget appropriations if the interest on the state debt, today of 41 billion euros, was to rise to 50 or 60 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u110	This is no time to waste!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u111	That's why we're going to have to deal with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u112	Beyond this preliminary precaution, I would like to highlight the tricks of Sioux in this bill. I will not mention here those who have changed tribes and who could be embarrassed by all the shortcomings that this law describes in hollow, the fruit of the renunciations of the past years. My thoughts go to those who held important positions at the Elysée, Bercy, the Ministry of Defence, or those who have always voted the budget for five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u113	Names!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u114	But let's go back to this thirteenth LPM. Why the hell would you propose a seven-year law at the hour of the quinquennium? This is a trick that probably allows for a greater satisfaction of needs, in order to calm down possible disappointments. I would like to point out here that this duration is a surprising first. If the budgetary effort is real during this legislature, Sioux's second trick is to shift the bulk of the effort after the upcoming presidential and legislative elections:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u115	That's smart!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u116	...an increase of 1.7 billion a year until 2022, and 3 billion after! That, Madam Minister, is not very elegant. Logic would have wanted the effort to be linear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u117	[[Smile]] Don't worry, we'll fix it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u118	For the workforce, the observation is even more cruel: 25 per cent of the effort during this legislature, 75 per cent after the election renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u119	We don't dig the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u120	It should also be noted that appropriations for OPEX and internal missions are included in defence appropriations. This measure allows savings elsewhere and de facto flattens future defence appropriations. To announce an increase of EUR 1.7 billion is not entirely in line with reality; the actual balance is significantly amputated. Again, behind this LPM is a communication strategy with an unhappy foundation. I would also point out that reasoning in a closed envelope helps to evacuate inflation. At the end of the period, 1.5 percentage points of inflation over seven years would lead to an erosion of more than 10% of the department's budgetary capacity, which is considerable. And then the devil, the minister, hides in the details. The President put the idea that the defence budget should reach 2 per cent of GDP in 2025 as a totem. For this, you give us an intermediate figure in 2023: credits of 44 billion, i.e. – write yourself – 1.91% of GDP. However, if 44 billion represents 1.91% of GDP, then your projection of national wealth is 2304 billion. What's wrong with this case is that your GDP calculation is based on a 1.5% growth in six years, an average annual growth of less than 0.24%. Either you tell us that Mr Macron's economic ambition is to do much less than Mr Hollande, or you try to camouflage the fact that the 2% target will not be achieved, contrary to the President's strong statements. On this point, I fear that the integration of pensions will be your last trick! [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, yes, the LPM draws a positive line, but there is too much, too much little cuisine and Sioux tricks so that we can fully appreciate it. In the end, I will tell you, Madam Minister, that the Sioux of the Great Plains have been severely beaten by the Blue Tunics, and that history always ends up repeating itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u121	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group. – "Come on, Jean! » on the benches of the GDR group]] Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u122	[[Applause on all benches]] [[Smile]] Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur and the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that I have gone to the gallery since my re-election. This will give you a taste of what awaits you! Of course, we can only be pleased to see a subject as important as national defence being the subject of budgetary programming for the years 2019 to 2025. It is certainly – others have said – the reason why the nation, and the military, are watching us. But we're in full fog.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u123	It's seasonal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u124	It's really not our fault, it's nobody's fault... but we haven't prepared for the future, either at home or in Europe. In principle, it is the continents that rule the world – even our financial world; We are the only nation-state to protect an entire continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u125	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u126	This brings me back to this famous maxim: France has always had an advance quarrel and a war of delay. Does this budget outline what can happen, not even in thirty or forty years, but simply – on the train where things are going – in the next five to ten years? [[Smile]] We continue to fight in Mali; Those we chase come back as fast as they can.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u127	You laugh, but he's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u128	[[Laughs]] We continue to sell arms to Iran and Saudi Arabia, allies that we know we can rely on, and that have earned us so much satisfaction in recent years. In reading the press, we wonder whether it was a good idea to eradicate Daesh, especially from Syria – Syria where we are now totally absent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u129	And the Kurds feel it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u130	It's no wonder, you'll tell me: we walked away in 2011! If we had had some hope and believed in the future of the Arab Springs, we could at least have left a consulate open... No, no, no! We left, returned to France. We're looking for our lost influence. This influence is now so striking that we are unable to prevent another genocide, that of the Kurds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u132	We are reduced to commenting on the news of the President of the United States, Mr Putin and even Mr Erdogan, whom we had never raised to such a level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u134	We are still part of NATO's integrated command, in which we have as many rivals as allies – that is now certain. If only France, endowed with an entirely new president, inspired, irresistible, a president who – we must recognize him – walks on the water, and to whom everything succeeds, had been able to regain the diplomacy that, together with that of our neighbours on the other side of the Channel, was the largest in the world, by reviving the friendships that it has lost for a long time because we have abandoned our brothers! Similarly, we could have considered civic service differently: three months, given the state of our people, it is nothing. We really have no lessons to teach others. Those in the suburbs who reject the civilization that should be theirs so much they feel ill-treated, those who live in our ends of France beyond the seas, and those who are abandoned at the bottom of their countryside, do you think they think like us tonight? [[Smile]] To reconnect with this people, it was necessary, as I had proposed – it was my most expensive measure, 10 billion euros, but I never had the opportunity to present it – a civic service lasting 11 months, from 10 September to 10 June. For those who would accomplish it, it would mean opening their first retirement rights, passing the driver's license for all kinds of vehicles and recovering the mobile phone numbers of their entire generation! You would see how much that could alleviate hatred, racism, and xenophobia. Yes, we could have done it. Finally, we could have laid the foundation for the fourth army, the one that fights cybercrime. We give the impression of staying at the time of the Maginot line.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u135	Thank you, Mr. Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u136	[[Applause on various benches]] Thank you, Madam President, for giving me a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u137	More than a minute, even, because my vigilance was taken in default.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u138	I have been so deprived of the floor, Madam President, that you probably wanted to compensate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u139	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u140	I hope that you will do the same for me, Madam President, since this is also my first speech in the House. Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is a moment of truth. The military programming bill for 2019 to 2025, which we are looking at today, reaffirms the central role we are playing in defence and our armed forces. First of all, I would like to highlight the excellent foundation of military service within the nation. The confidence of public opinion in the armies reinforces the action of our forces in the national territory and in external operations, as well as the policy of national defence and security. I check it every day, especially in the Gard where the link between the population and the four regiments of the army is particularly strong. This text enshrines the restoration of France's defence effort, as desired by the President of the Republic, and from now on gives our armies the means to carry out their missions in a sustainable manner. Tomorrow, they will have modernised means, and those who serve them, whether military or civilian, will benefit from significantly improved conditions for their work. In a degraded geostrategic context, the challenge is to strengthen our military model to make it complete, balanced, and able, over time, to guarantee the fundamental foundation of our defence missions: deter, protect, know, anticipate, prevent and intervene. In recent decades, budgetary constraints have profoundly affected the daily lives and careers of our military and civilian personnel. This is why this LPM project makes improving daily life a priority. The aim is to ensure that defence women and men are able to fulfil their tasks and to review the conditions for the exercise of the profession of arms through their training and operational preparation. The aim is also to provide better living and working conditions for military and civilian personnel, as well as for families. That is one of the ambitions of this text on which I wish to dwell. First of all, the increase in the number of staff – 6000 additional posts, half of which benefit the crucial areas of intelligence and cyber defence in order to cope with the persistence of the terrorist threat and new forms of aggression – resolutely reverses the downward trend of the last thirty years. The two components of the operational reserve also contribute to the support and relief of highly sought-after personnel. They are indispensable complements to the armed forces and related trainings to complete all missions and assist in the implementation of operational contracts. The draft law perpetuates the specific budget of the operational reserve to the tune of 200 million euros per year, thus maintaining the target of 40,000 reservists under commitment to serve, for an average annual employment of about thirty-seven days. For this purpose, Article 10 extends the statutory threshold for annual duration of activity from thirty to sixty days. In order to retain reservists and in the interests of equity, the social security coverage of reservists is improved and partnerships with their employers, public or private, are developed. The profound restructuring of our defence tool, under severe financial constraints, has for several years increased the pressure on the means dedicated to support, in particular on those who directly participate in the daily military condition: accommodation, food, clothing, social action, reclassification. Yet military involvement, mobilization and resilience are total. I was able to observe this in Gao last January with the military forces involved in Operation Barkhane. I was able to understand at best and share, even briefly, the daily lives of our soldiers in OPEX – we can be particularly proud of them. Nevertheless, living conditions – housing, the level of remuneration and the reconciliation between private and professional life – need to be improved. The lack of human resources, as well as the difficulties associated with career paths, have a negative impact on the morale of the military. As for the family environment, its impact on the sustainable attractiveness of the military function and retention is recognized. The LPM draws the consequences of these shortcomings and makes the improvement of the conditions of support for civilian and military personnel a priority, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic. The family plan will allocate nearly 530 million euros between 2019 and 2025 to families who are under the constraints of the commitment, including absences or operational mobility. In conclusion, I would like to draw some perspectives because the debate will not be closed here. We have before us an important project, that of the place of women in the French armed forces. While the role of women soldiers is now recognized, their situation is not stabilized and changes are still needed. The seventh report of the High Military Assessment Committee defined priorities as early as 2013 including the development of attractiveness, the adaptation of working life and the link between work and private life. The bill is fully committed to this, and I am pleased to do so, particularly through section 7, which opens the possibility for a member on leave for personal convenience to raise a child under the age of eight to make a commitment to serve the reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u141	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u142	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Government's efforts to build on trained, trained, valued and fully integrated women and men were expected. This LPM project is ambitious and responsible. It addresses the shortcomings of the past and gives new life to 270,000 military and civilian personnel and their families. The latter honour us and oblige us all in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u143	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u144	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, it is customary, in the discussion of a law of military programming whose primary purpose is to set the budget trajectory of our armies, to speak of numbers. So I could have mentioned the 295 billion euros that will be spent on defence between 2019 and 2025, the 6000 new posts that will be created, the renewal of the median armoured vehicles of our army or the purchase of fifteen A330 MRTT refuellers for our air force. However, it seemed to me equally essential to mention before national representation what makes this thirteenth law of military programming a law of renewal, a singular law: it focuses on the human person before the budgetary aspects of which it is the legislative vehicle. Because it meets the needs for clothing and protection of the combatant by means of equipment adapted to his training, training and the performance of his mission, this programming makes the choice of an effective army. Because it tends to invest in the upgrading of buildings for everyday life, accommodation or family housing, by ensuring that these facilities offer living conditions in line with the requirements of the various trades of our armies, this programming makes the choice of a modern army. Because it assigns as an essential objective the joint services of the defence infrastructure service and the service of the military police station, the improvement of the living and working conditions of the personnel and their families, this military programming makes the choice of an army to listen. Because it assigns a central role to the national service of the armies in the detection and management of physical but also psychological disorders, both for active soldiers and for those who have left the ranks, this LPM makes the choice of a responsible army. Because it strengthens the Order of Liberation and the influence of the commitment of the companions, this LPM makes the choice of a proud army. Because it will allow our soldiers to be municipal councillors in municipalities with fewer than 9,000 inhabitants and community councillors in communities with fewer than 15,000 inhabitants, this LPM makes the choice of a citizen army. Because it promotes voluntary engagement and values the National Guard, this LPM makes the choice of an open army. Because it does not only take into account the problems of military personnel but fully includes those of the civilians around them, in particular by plentiful to the tune of 230 million euros the ambitious family plan co-built with our soldiers and set up by the minister, this military programming makes the choice of an attentive army. To pass this bill is to understand that with the military, it is an entire family that is being recruited. Adopting this bill is an ambition to change the lives of the women and men who serve our country. To pass this bill is to integrate that a demanding commitment is impossible without a successful personal life. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] La Rochefoucauld said that "The wise man is better off not to commit himself than to defeat." Ladies and gentlemen, let us stand alongside those who, though wise in what they do and what they are, have known and know how to combine commitment and victory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u145	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u146	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u147	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud, the first speaker on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u148	We are surprised that this military programming law covers the years 2019 to 2025. Although I did not mention this point in my speech during the general discussion, it is at least surprising that half of the increase in budget appropriations, just as half of the planned hirings will only take place in the last three years, that is, in 2023, 2024 and 2025. To the extent that we live under a presidential monarchy where everything is judged by the President, we should have chosen the quinquennium as the temporal horizon of this military programming bill. If the President undertakes to respect the Otanian 2% target by 2025, as long as he assumes it fully and undertakes to respect it at the end of his term of office, without prejudging the outcome of the elections of 2022. So deciding to commit his successors to such large sums is surprising to say the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u149	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u150	The gradual but sustained increase in our defence effort, as reflected in the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025, with various defence-related provisions, is very good news for our armies. This LPM will allow us to honour the planned investments to enable our army to better respond to its various missions. In addition to improving the daily lives of our soldiers, which is a major issue, we must be able to deal with the new threats and risks that must lead us to more strategic, technological and operational autonomy. That is why it is essential to implement concrete measures through an appropriate budget. The financial effort of allocating €34.2 billion to our defence in 2018, and then €295 billion between 2019 and 2025, is a particularly encouraging sign for our armies, at a time when France is engaged on various fronts, notably in the Sahel, in the Levant and in the national territory, with Operation Sentinel. If the first objective of this law of military programming is indeed to curb the capacity deficits that undermine the action of our troops and our defence strategy, it is essential, in my view, to go further. I am thinking in particular, Madam Minister, of the definition of a real space surveillance policy. Understanding the space situation is essential to identify both threats and risks to our interests and to our forces on the ground. Watching space is protecting yourself. Ensuring our free access to and use of outer space is a prerequisite for our strategic autonomy. We must now clearly define what a satellite of interest is for France and decide on our level of action and the corresponding budgetary appropriations. It is today that we must provide the necessary funding for active and efficient monitoring of space, otherwise we will run the risk of finding ourselves, by 2025, at a loss of capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u151	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u152	Having been unable to get time to speak in the general debate, I will quickly give our vision of this bill. First of all, we remain dubious about the exercise. This bill ultimately commits only those who believe in it, as history has taught us that military programming laws are often forgotten and that the legislation passed by Parliament does not ultimately represent much in the face of Bercy's budgetary injunctions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, we see it as a positive point that this bill puts an end to the dizzying fall in the means of our armies, for which, it must be said, Mr.Sarkozy's quinquennium was the most catastrophic of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u153	Don't be embarrassed, ladies and gentlemen, applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u154	On this point, I remind some, on the right, that they bear the very heavy responsibility for deconstruction of our defence tool. I believe, moreover, that among those who are today the defenders of our armies are the very ones who supported such a policy of dispersal yesterday. Even if the efforts are real and the intentions laudable, this law of military programming is, for us, not commensurate with the threats or the stakes. Madam Minister, I know that unfortunately you do not have your hands free in this area. Between the Minister of Public Action and Public Accounts and the authoritarian injunctions of Brussels, the fight is not on equal terms. In any event, the need to make a law will have to keep its promises in order to protect our army as well as France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u155	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u156	The armies listen to us and hear us. And since there is a debate on the military programming bill, it is normal for them to know that there are opposing views in this House: it is the normal life of democracy. Since Title I deals with the provisions relating to the objectives of defence policy and financial programming, and after saying earlier that priority should be given to means for us to go to the cyber army, to the control of space and to the capacity to monitor the seas, since we have the second maritime domain in the world, the time has come to say how, from a geopolitical point of view, a law of military programming should respond to the new situation. Many of you are delighted to know that we are the second army of the free world. For our part, we totally reject this concept of a free world, because it does not correspond to any political, legal or international definition, but to a phantasm, that of the former cold war. Under the present circumstances, in which a disorderly and multipolar world seeks to reorganize itself, the United States of America occupies a centrality around the military alliance of NATO. But NATO is a period that has now passed. For our part, we are in favour of getting out of it, so as to guarantee and regain not only independence – we have defined ourselves, in the issue of the Revue Défense Nationale that was dedicated to us, as French independenceists – but above all to put it to the benefit of a new form of organization of international relations, which will be discussed in a moment, especially when we talk about nuclear energy. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] We therefore find it dangerous to make a law providing for us to sink even further into the system of organisation of the so-called European defence, which is just the organisation of NATO in Europe. I say very solemnly that we disapprove of the presence and call for the withdrawal of the 300 French soldiers and tanks stationed on the border with Russia. We have no reason to be here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u157	Go say it in the Donbass!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u158	Russia is not an opponent, it is a partner. In the global and European geopolitical order, France's interest is to make it a partner.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u159	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u160	We are discussing a law of military programming that mostly satisfies our armies, which we must rejoice at. I sincerely wanted to avoid any controversial elements in the public debate, but disturbing information, which would certainly have a serious impact on the finances of our armies, caught my attention. On Europe 1, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces said, about possible strikes in Syria: "You can imagine that President Macron would not have set a red line and would not have made such a statement if he did not know that we have the means to do so. This declaration was accompanied by the assurance that France is in a position to strike independently. I am not going back to the fact that we are pursuing a policy that is not desirable. In Syria, there is no one we could support, except to reproduce the dramatic mistakes of past years and the sad wanderings of our support for radical groups. I just want to ask a question: has this law of military programming been drafted with in mind a possible intervention by France in Syria, other than at the Iraqi border? Does it anticipate the significant cost of such an operation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u161	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u162	I imagine, Madam Minister, that at such a moment, you feel a real pride in defending a law of military programming that I call a break, to follow such texts in recent years. Beyond this bill, I am thinking of the soldiers who have committed themselves, who are valorous and to whom, on these benches, we all pay tribute when, unfortunately, a member of their beautiful community is touched. In recent years, we have had budgets which, even though they were painfully accounting for EUR 32 or 34 billion, suffered from arbitrations at the end of which the word given was never respected. Yes or no, was such an effort necessary? That's the question we can ask ourselves. Yes, it had to be done, and first of all, you put it in the text, Madam Minister, and I know that you are committed to it, for the condition of the military, which deserved a special effort. Then, of course, for the operational means available. It is known, for example, that the availability of aircraft, in particular, is very low. It was also necessary to do so for the risks, which was stressed by many colleagues, who have never been so geopolitically important, linked to terrorism, to hotbeds of instability, in Syria or in other parts of the world, on the African continent in particular. We know that France has played a major role in recent years. Madam Minister, it would not be necessary, after a very strong confidence, to envisage the prospect of evolution and technological changes with ever more sophisticated materials, if the shared enthusiasm were to fall back. You can count on the national representation, MPs as senators, to be the guardians of the temple. By this I mean that, behind the means displayed, which open the prospect to the defence budget to be, by 2025, the first of the nation, it will be necessary for the appropriations to follow. Every year, we will also have to ensure that Bercy, whom you know well, Minister, does not restrict the legitimate ambitions that you set out through this bill. My speech is therefore placed under the sign of trust as well as that of vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u163	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u164	In the context of my opinion on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have studied the situation of allied countries which do not have military programming laws. Of course, a law of military programming must be considered in the long term: it is a strategy, not a tactic. The Commission fully supports this projection by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u165	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u166	The military programming law 2019-2025 aims to guarantee the security, protection and defence of our nation. That is the meaning of Article 1. This projection must provide France with the means to defend itself against intensified, diversified and lasting threats. This tool must enable our armies to deal with the various conflicts, to ensure the protection of the nation and to enable France to face all the challenges it faces in view of the persistence of the terrorist risk, since jihadist terrorism remains the most immediate and most egregious threat. An environment marked by the return of power policies as well as the weakening of the international order makes the strategic context permanently unstable and uncertain. The forecasts programmed, the projections must be sincere. Since 2014, the armed forces have faced an overrun of 30 per cent of their operational contracts. The Court of Auditors itself noted, in its reference of 19 July 2017 on the military programming law 2014-2019 and the prospects of the "Defence" mission, the "absence of coherence between ambitions and means". This situation has led to difficulties in the implementation of the 2014-2019 MPA, which is not admissible. Budgetary uncertainties cannot continue, as has been the case for several years, to weigh on the defence budget. Exceptional revenues, the realization of which is not certain in time, cannot be retained, nor can decisions amputating, as we saw in the summer of 2017, the budget of the armies of 850 million euros. [[Mr. Bertrand Bouyx applauds]] I wholeheartedly hope that this military programming project will present means in line with the objectives set out in Article 1. The subject is too important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u167	Several speakers are inscribed in rule 2. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u168	Let us be honest, however, our armies will defend our country. This defence will be as effective as the military and civilians engaged in the service of France on which it relies. But it may well be assured without this coherence, the spine it needs. Why? Because we're not told, because you're not telling us the whole truth. Let us make it clear, from a strategic point of view, that France's interests are not those of Europe, nor those of NATO. Because of his choices, the Government is taking us on a path where we will not be in control of our destiny. It is a lack of lucidity to think for a moment that the Americans aspire to something other than to dominate Europe, taking advantage of a moment when the Franco-German couple, supposed to revive the Europe of defence, are the most fragile. This Europe of defence is, at present, no longer virtual. How could it be otherwise when some countries in said Europe prefer to buy American equipment rather than French equipment? Is this not the case, for example, of Belgium, which chooses F-35 to the detriment of our Rafale? We can always make great speeches, gargarise ourselves with great words, the Europe of defence, this should first of all be a preference for equipment derived from the technology of our European industries. We can only see that this is not the case. Defence Europe is now a chimera. [[Sébastien Chenu and Marie-France Lorho applaud]] What to do? Tossing into the arms of our American allies? Accept that our industrial florets are sold abroad? I don't want it, and I don't think the French want it either. If I am deeply committed to cooperation between the countries of our old continent, I am convinced that we must now give ourselves the means to ensure our security and thus our independence. I don't feel like we're on our way. I hope with all my heart I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u169	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u170	For several years, Europe has seen the return of open war and demonstrations of force at its doors, as well as a concentration of unprecedented challenges since the end of the cold war: the migration crisis, the situation in the Sahelo-Saharan band, the lasting destabilization of the Middle East and the war in Ukraine. In addition, there was a shambles of the international system that emerged from the cold war, in which there were few active actors and which was rather well regulated. This world is over; It has given way to an environment whose instability and unpredictability are the dominant figures: Russia violates international law, China imposes itself by force in its environment and the United States frees itself from multilateralism. In this context, this draft law on military programming offers the means to bring our armies back to power and allows France to preserve its strategic autonomy. That's something to be pleased about. However, the situation I have just mentioned must encourage Europeans to organize themselves collectively. That is also the spirit of this military programming bill. In this area, the main challenge is to maintain the momentum set in motion for the past year in the field of defence Europe, which has always been a French priority and which remains so in the current context. That is what the bill proposes in its section 2. We have to say hello to him. Twenty-five Member States agreed last December on the launch of permanent structured cooperation. Recently, the President of the Republic proposed to go further, with a European intervention initiative aimed at developing a shared strategic culture. This initiative would be to welcome military personnel from other European countries to take part, as early as possible, in anticipation, intelligence, planning and operations support. This could be one of the axes of the French contribution to permanent structured cooperation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Article 2 therefore allows the strengthening of European defence around shared security interests. For this reason, I support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u171	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u172	This military programming bill enshrines the rebuilding of our armies and aims to increase the national defence effort to 2% of gross domestic product by 2025. Through this political will, we send a strong signal to our allies in NATO, as well as to our European partners. To them, we propose a future perspective, that of developing a common strategic culture, of building the operational capacities necessary to protect our strategic interests in the south, east and north of our borders: a European intervention initiative, everywhere and as long as the security of our nations so requires. This military programming bill is also based, in concrete terms, on the launch of a number of projects in cooperation: the medium-altitude and long-lasting MALE drone, the future air combat system, the successor of the Leclerc tank, new supply ships and other projects, which will ensure, in the long term, the interoperability of the forces of our European armies. It is this proactive policy that will enable France and Europe to have more weight in the coalition forces and the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u173	What for?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will thus forge a common European destiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u175	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u176	This is an essential article, since it includes the attached report, which should shed light on the Government's vision of the world and from which we should set budgetary targets. But it must be noted that we have worked backwards, since we have set the target of 2% of GDP before we even think about the structure. When we read the attached report in detail, we find that there are cruel shortcomings. Nothing about American politics, which is bellicist and frees itself from multilateralism. The United States is now a warbreaker because it needs its military power to restore its supremacy to China's peril. Nor is there anything about our Turkish ally, whose domestic policy vis-à-vis opponents is getting tougher – let alone its foreign policy: Turkey has crushed our Kurdish allies in Afrin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u177	And nothing about Russia?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u178	You can talk! Putin, you invite him to Versailles!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u179	What can be said of this European defence, which is an unsurpassable objective, but which does not work because of the lack of common interests between European countries? And what about the lacks concerning ecological crises, which cause population displacement and increase the instability of the world?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u180	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u181	This military programming bill confirms our ambition to maintain a high level of mastery of the five strategic functions. I particularly welcome the efforts made to promote the function of knowledge and anticipation, which is given important means. Essential at all stages of military and political decision-making, this strategic function offers our armies a fair appreciation of the terrain and of the situations. This capacity for self-assessment is valuable. Even if we cooperate with our closest allies, only the collection, analysis and autonomous exploitation of data will be able to guarantee informational and then operational superiority on all terrains. With an increase of 53 per cent in the amount allocated to intelligence and cyber defence over the period 2014-2019, the Ministry of Armed Forces responds to the strong operational need expressed in these two areas in view of the current threats. I am pleased to see that this military programming bill aims to create 1500 additional posts for intelligence services and that €4.6 billion will be invested to improve our equipment in this area: space observation systems, strategic reconnaissance aircraft, surveillance buildings. With regard to cyber defence, the stakes are also high. We can only welcome the allocation of a budget of €1.6 billion, which will be deployed between 2019 and 2025. The number of cyber-combatants will be increased from 3000 to 4000, which will help to meet the priority needs of the armed forces, particularly in order to continue our rise in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is why the military programming bill not only repairs, but also builds the future. And since I know that this House is fond of Latin quotations, I cannot help but conclude by noting that thanks to this effort we will be able to put in the mouth of the French Republic the words that Cicero addressed to the enemies of the Roman Republic: "Nihil act, nihil moliris, nihil cogitas, quod ego non modo non audiam, sed etiam non vieam, planque sentiam" – "All that you do, all that you plan, I know of it".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u182	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u183	I will exclaim, with respect to this military programming bill, and in particular its clause 2: "Finally! "And yet! " Finally, we cease disarming our country, while the difficulties and dangers are accumulating; It's been two and a half decades since we let them go up without arming ourselves. And yet, a law of military programming will not be enough to upgrade our defence, after the previous abandonments. However, this LPM reverses the trend. It provides resources, it probably allows us to repair and, sometimes, prepare for the future, albeit insufficiently – and I want to alert the entire national representation on this point, as I have already had the opportunity to alert you, Madam Minister. First, with regard to upstream studies, any progress that we could make would be useful in better defining the next military programming bill – that is the very purpose of these studies. A few subjects must then be of particular interest to us. Digital technology will become increasingly important in the field of defence, including in its non-military aspects; Our societies remain fragile in the face of this development. In terms of space, progress is essential – you have also made the almost general replacement of our equipment. In my view, there is also an urgent need to break with some kind of carrier dogma, according to which it would be better to have a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier rather than two nuclear-powered or conventional aircraft carriers. As the dangers and threats on our channels of communication multiply, I believe it is essential to raise the issue of permanence at sea. Another particularly important and complex issue is the definition of what our new combat aircraft will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u184	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u185	I would like to add a final word, Madam President, on the need to ensure our military presence with the ultramarines and to affirm our independence over all the oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u186	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u187	The aim of this bill is, inter alia, to strengthen the capacity for the maintenance of equipment and to renew operational capabilities. This commitment to modernising our defence policy is necessary if we are to enable the armies to fulfil their mission in a sustainable and sustainable manner and to guarantee the security of France and its interests. Part of the report annexed to the bill is devoted to the renewal of the operational capabilities of the armed forces. It provides, inter alia, for the delivery of six patrollers in the overseas areas for 2025 under the protection of the armed forces. I would like, Madam Minister, to draw your attention to the need to improve the surveillance of the exclusive economic zone of New Caledonia, which is often plagued by the plundering of its resources by pirates from Asia, particularly Vietnam. While the President of the Republic has just concluded, during his last visit to India, a bilateral agreement on reciprocal access to the naval bases of the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean with a view to containing the maritime encirclement policy currently developed by Beijing, it seems essential to ensure the permanent protection of our waters and the preservation of our maritime resources. [[Smile]] Currently, our waters are mainly monitored by two P400 patrollers. However, the advanced age of these patrollers is well above the average age of the deputies of the Assembly... The resulting maintenance difficulties reduce the effectiveness of naval missions in New Caledonia. On 24 October, in an answer to a written question asked by our colleague Philippe Gomès, you indicated that these two Caledonian patrollers would be removed from active service in 2020. You were also kind enough to respond favourably to our request for the delivery of two new type patrollers by 2020 to 2022. You will agree that it is inconceivable to leave our maritime space without protection or surveillance in the interval that could separate the removal of former patrollers from the delivery of the new ones. That is why I would like to have the guarantee that this period will be cancelled or that the protection of our waters will be ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u188	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u189	You will have understood that, from one intervention to another, I draw up a project. Madam Minister, you told us that if you were to estimate the country's defence needs at 2% of GDP, it was not because it was decided by NATO, but because it was in line with your analysis. Good! However, it is my duty to point out to you the happy coincidence between, on the one hand, your assessment and, on the other hand, the figure proposed by President Trump, a figure accepted as it is by Mrs Merkel and a few other NATO zealous ones. The Germans, who have always lived under the protection of the North American nuclear umbrella, hear absolutely nothing about French independence and wonder what fly is pricking us. The fly that bites us is that we do not want to be submissive or trained in military adventures decided by the United States of America. I do not know if all colleagues, although knowing her, realize the disproportion of means. For the defence budget of the United States of America, we are talking about 620 billion euros. In other words, the United States budget alone accounts for 50 per cent of total global military spending; In addition to the budget of their allies, this share amounts to 80 per cent. In addition to this, the budget of our so-called enemy, Russia, which lies in our East, is EUR 50 billion, or less than 10% of total military spending. In short, we need to put things back on track: there is no reason to continue to participate in a military alliance against an adversary who is not. I do not know what the Hungarians and Poles need, or against whom, but what I know is that we have no interest in working together to the extent that we have our own obligations, which our colleague has just recalled. I am thinking of Caledonia or French Polynesia, whose territory is equal to that of Europe as a whole. We need to deploy means of protection and defence there that no one will assume in our place. [[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the FI group]] As my speaking time is exhausted, I will find you in the next article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u190	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that many amendments have been tabled on this article, and I am pleased that we are collectively exercising this important right. We cannot, of course, miss out on the two pillars of our defence strategy that are at the heart of the article and the report that are, of course, NATO and the introuvable Europe of defence. It is obvious that we do not share the same view on the merits of these strategies: Germany's attitude in Balkan conflicts as well as the interests of the United States in Africa diverged for many of them from those of our country. The news reminds us: in Afrin, the Turks are fighting Kurdish forces which were partly formed by the United States and other NATO members. There is an open conflict between two NATO powers, five hours from Paris. Donald Trump announced today that he would be happy to meet Vladimir Putin, but also that he would never let a power approach the level of American armaments. I believe that we are at a time of great change in alliances, so military strategies. It is regrettable that this strategic outcome is not reflected in the article and the report annexed to it. This is surprising in the light of the findings of the analysts, who could have inspired nuances in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u192	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have quoted General de Villiers, but fewer, it seems, read his book, Servir. In Chapter 3, entitled "Operational Together", and Chapter 7, "The Sharing of Burden", he explains how French strategic autonomy thinks at the same time as European strategic autonomy. I invite you to read this book. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The rate of 2% of GDP corresponds to the share of global GDP devoted to defence. In Servir chapter 5, it is written that "the price of peace is the effort of war."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u194	"War is peace," it's Orwell!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u195	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u196	I take advantage of Article 2 to raise two sensitive issues. While I recognize the great effort that has been made for our armies, some of the daily problems I see as urgent to address, particularly with regard to clothing and buildings. It was regrettable that managers and non-commissioned members could not purchase more equipment in diversity and quantity from their clothing books at the mail-order distribution site of the Military Police Service, even though the number of points allocated annually for such purchases was largely sufficient. I will take some examples of limitation: pairs of socks, three per year; tee-shirts, four per year; long-sleeved underwear, one every five years; Bodysuits, three a year. These limitations often result in personnel equipping themselves with civilian military equipment suppliers, resulting in a loss of purchasing power. There is also a problem with the way out, better known as "TDF" – "Terre de France". Preparation times are very high, ranging from three to four months, and military personnel are provided with a free allocation only every ten years. As far as buildings are concerned, their degradation is a matter not to be overlooked. While the decline in financial resources has affected the maintenance of military infrastructure, its impact has also been felt in the capacity to absorb, "infra" in the units. Some regiments have trained soldiers, who are housed in former fighter hangars where Corimec prefabricated aircraft have been installed. Some regiments lack buildings that can accommodate up to 100 people. As a result, some regiments do not have an adequate and appropriate "infra" at their disposal. The problem is obviously identified, but buildings are not built in a snap of fingers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u197	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u198	I will mention two points, in particular the attached report, which is in keeping with the Strategic Review. In view of France's necessary strategic autonomy, starting from a complete military model, the question of full membership of NATO arises. However, this issue is not fully reflected in the attached report. For our part, we consider that NATO has too much control over French defence policy, and in the past it has been possible to draw us into conflicts where we had absolutely nothing to do. We still consider that France's reintegration into the Alliance's integrated command was a mistake, and it must be stressed, by Nicolas Sarkozy. Moreover, the question of our membership of NATO is, in my view, inseparable from that of our alliances with countries that do not respect any rule of international law, such as Turkey currently in Afrin. That should question us. I also wish, Madam President, to express our opinion on the military industry. The rapprochement between the two armies and the two defence industries, German and French, does not leave us concerned, as the differences are obvious: these two armies have neither the same level nor the same aims. Making them work together can lead to curious failures. In Mali, for example, German and French soldiers deployed at the same time, but not together. I would like to draw your attention to the defence industry, which is unfortunately one of our last jewels. France has expertise in this area, as well as very high quality industrialists and workers, which we obviously need to protect. Again, too close a rapprochement with German industry would probably be detrimental to jobs in France. The report annexed to the article refers to two major industrial sites: the battle tanks and the combat aircraft of the future, which Mr Lagarde mentioned earlier. We are not opposed to bilateral agreements in the field of defence, of course – some of them work well with Italy, for example – but we are resolutely opposed to multilateral agreements, which often lead to industrial disasters. If we have nothing, I repeat, against bilateral agreements, they must be based on common interests. However, in terms of use and export policy, French and German interests do not always seem to converge. We need to be clear from the start about what we are giving to our German partners, and what we are getting from them in terms of technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u199	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u200	One more point to conclude, Madam President...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u201	No, Mr. Chenu, you've already exceeded your speaking time. Thank you. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u202	André Chassaigne is used to emphasizing the importance of the choice of words. Moving from the title of "Minister of Defence" to that of "Minister of Armed Forces" must therefore be of importance. You are talking about the second army of the "free world", Madam Minister, but the notion of "free world" also suggests that of a world to be liberated. Who will we do it with, and how? What is this world? This implies that the ministry of armies becomes, de facto, that of war. That is why we are concerned about this military programming bill. If there is a world to be freed, how will things happen? I therefore invite you to develop this concept of a "free world", which we find difficult to understand. I also want to talk about nuclear deterrence and the positioning of our army for the next two minutes. We have soldiers, very high-quality soldiers, who maintain the French nuclear weapon and keep it permanently at our disposal for our safety. That said, this year we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to associations and activists of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. We also experienced the disturbing episode between North Korea and the United States. As part of a military programming law, we are therefore entitled to ask ourselves about deterrence, its usefulness, its level and the nature of its modernization, knowing that not all nuclear-weapon countries are responding in the same way to its modernization, in view of the "issues of the twenty-first century", as they say now. Even if we recognize the power of the President of the Republic to trigger nuclear weapons, should we consider that he is the only one who can think of it? Why does the military programming bill not debate the issue of deterrence, its level and its means of delivery?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u203	Thank you, Mr. Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u204	We regret it, and ask you to come back to this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u205	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u206	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u207	I will put my steps, Madam Minister, in those of our colleagues Lachaud and Mélenchon. I, in turn, would like to try to convince you that defence Europe is in fact nothing but a chimera, which is totally part of NATO. Whatever you say, you have no will to emancipate from NATO. For the sake of clarity, I recall that Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union states that "commitments and cooperation in [the] field of [security and defence policy] shall remain in conformity with the commitments entered into within the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which shall remain, for the member States, the basis of their collective defence and the body for its implementation". Twenty-two of the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union belong, I would remind you, to NATO. In short, defence Europe is NATO: here we find a problem already reported. Our European partners could at the very least point out that they are not aligning the United States, particularly with regard to military equipment. Rather than buying F-35s, why would Denmark, Italy, Norway and the Netherlands not buy our Rafale aircraft, for example? It would give a little body to a reality. There is, as we can see, an obligation of interoperability with American equipment for the equipment of NATO member countries. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this respect, article 2 circumvents a major subject. The independence and full sovereignty of France depends on the exit of this agreement, which was born in the Cold War, a warring war, and of which countries such as Turkey are members, which is waging an unbearable war against our Kurdish allies. We do not want to be drawn into a conflict because of this alliance, which I repeat is dated. That is why our country's full sovereignty requires an exit from NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u208	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u209	I would like to react to the intervention of our colleague who was trying to justify the 2% of GDP, which has become a totem, like the 3% deficit under which it is essential to pass in order to be awarded the title of good pupil of the European Commission. The 2%, we are told, corresponds to the global average, to which we must conform. But why don't we do better? Why not 4%, which would make us even more efficient and efficient than others? We realize, in fact, that part of this debate is "off-ground" – geopolitics, in this case. Our colleagues Lachaud, Mélenchon and Corbière recalled, our discussion remains purely economic and technical; It lacks the geopolitical component. Why do we oppose the arbitrary choice of 2%? Because we should discuss France's strategy, which must ensure the protection of its territory and give itself the means of its armed force, but with the objective of defending peace. Peace is not built by escalation, nor by a game among nations, to the one that will have more than the other. I would also like to point out that if these 2 per cent are set as an absolute objective, we do not do so for development aid, for example, which remains far from much lower objectives, for education or for culture. We could also give ourselves other priorities. And that is the meaning of our interventions: we have other priorities, such as ensuring protection in our territory. For us, the future, at the international geopolitical level, is not the arms race, the possession of more weapons, on the contrary. The future is other priorities, such as education, ecological transition and development assistance. That is how peace is built. It's not by making weapons, it's by building other policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u210	Mr Patrice Verchère, the last speaker on the item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u211	With this Article 2, Madam Minister, you set out the guidelines for defence policy and the means allocated to it during the period 2019-2025, taking into account the objective of raising the national defence effort to 2% of GDP at the end of this period. We deeply regret, as we repeat, that your LPM is based on a budget increase that will be driven primarily by the next quinquennium. If the 2014-2019 LPM proved to be insufficient in the face of the many OPEXs, with the consequences we know on the levels of preparation of our armies and the attrition of the equipment engaged, the LPM you are presenting will unfortunately not allow to restore the situation, given its programmed budget trajectory, which reports to the quinquennium following the bulk of the financial effort. It should also be noted that the 2% of GDP target includes pensions, which relates to the 2% of GDP target allocated to the defence effort. This 2% is not the panacea, but a vital minimum. That is why we should instead reach 2% of the GDP excluding pensions, which was the wish of the former Chief of the Armed Staff, General de Villiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u212	We come to the amendments to Article 2. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 201.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u213	In the continuation of my remarks, on the one hand, in the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee and, on the other hand, in the general discussion, this amendment aims to delete the reference to 2% of GDP. A quick search would show – if I have the time, I will take it by tomorrow – that this 2% target is well desired, affirmed by Mr Trump. He criticized several times the European states that did not reach this threshold, not to be there. This objective, however, is not based on precise, concrete analyses, nor on the specific needs of our army. In addition to this, there is the phenomenal cost of nuclear deterrence, which Mr Lecoq was worth around EUR 14 million a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u214	Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey, chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, rapporteur, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u215	Before giving an opinion against your amendment, Mr Chassaigne, I wanted to give you some clarification. NATO is not a chimera, nor an esoteric figure. NATO's twenty-nine nations, twenty-nine independent countries, have joined in a strategic alliance. It is a key element of European security and of our French security. To assume this security and lead to increasing responsibility, these twenty-nine countries and twenty-two European countries...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u216	Of which Turkey, I think!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u217	... decided to make an effort to go towards 2%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u218	I was checking if Turkey is part of NATO: it is interesting to remind him! That's what NATO is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u219	Listen to me, President Chassaigne, let's go to 2%, which is not a diktat from the United States, nor from Trump. The decision was taken before Mr Trump. Let's be reasonable! In this Chamber, a very large majority of the national representation seems to me to be in favour of France remaining in NATO's military command.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u220	That's the free world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u221	I didn't use that term, Mr. Lecoq. NATO is an alliance of twenty-nine free, independent, autonomous countries that have the right to join forces to ensure their security.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u222	To crush another people, like the Kurdish people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the rapporteur speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u224	Finally, it is nice to say that France should make further efforts for its defence and, as soon as we speak of NATO, to use the terrible word "re-armament". Let's make sense! If we have the right to match our ambitions with the means of our armies, let us also give this ambition to all countries. NATO is neither a vain word nor a naughty word. For my part, I am proud that our country belongs to NATO. That is why I give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u225	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u226	We have already had this debate in committee. As you said, Mr Chassaigne, this amendment is based on the assumption that the 2% target set in this military programming law by 2025 would only be a form of diktat coming from outside, in this case from Mr Trump. I told you earlier that we didn't get that approach at all. We have built this law of military programming on the basis of the needs expressed by our armies, some of whom have come to report in committee. It is therefore not at all a matter of aligning with something that would come from outside, but, above all, of responding to a need for the repair of forces that have been much sought after in the past, with an evolution of the means that were affected to them, which we recalled earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u227	It's dressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u228	However, I cannot say that NATO does not exist. NATO exists. It fulfils a mission, on which one can have different points of view, but it exists. It turns out that in 2014, France signed up to the commitment to gradually increase its defence effort to 2% of its GDP. The two approaches are united: on the one hand, that of having to repair the situation of our armies; On the other hand, this commitment made by France long before Trump was elected President of the United States. For all these reasons, Mr Chassaigne, I will issue an unfavorable opinion which I believe you have understood the motivation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u229	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u230	The Group of the European People's Party will obviously not support this amendment, since it considers the 2% target to be very important. This is not an end in itself, but the level necessary to have a complete, balanced military model. That is why we support this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u231	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u232	We are happy to admit that a number, and perhaps even a majority of Members, in this House are supporters of the alliance with NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u233	You support the Russians well; Everyone's got their own thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u234	This is not new. This debate is as old as NATO and French independence. There is therefore nothing new in this discussion, except that, since then, a new stage has been reached, which has integrated us into the military command. This is not without consequence. Do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we were expected to acclaim ourselves. This means, as our German friends constantly remind us and on every occasion, that we agree to be integrated into a defence system where there is only a European defence within the framework of NATO. So please give us the grace to explain how you reconcile, on the one hand, the strategy of deterrence, which says, among other things, that Europe will not be a theatre of small war anywhere, and, on the other hand, the membership of a military organisation, which establishes anti-missile defence batteries in Poland and which, therefore, involves us, if necessary, in a conflict which we say, we will never want if we have not disposed of ourselves. This is a first contradiction. I would add that there is a very great angelism to believe in an independent Europe of defence, as we French people see it. Not at all! It is about buying weapons on shelf in the United States of America. It is in this way that they design their alliance. Everyone says it, everyone does it, and there's no way it's gonna change. I conclude by inviting you to take stock of this alliance. What has she brought so special? Let's talk about it! What is the record of our participation in the conflict in Afghanistan, where, as everyone remembers, we went to free the oppressed women and establish the pure and perfect democracy to which we all aspire? What is the record of these millions and millions of euros spent, of these destroyed materials, of the years of war we have waged? Who won in the end? Not us! Let's go on! What is the record of NATO's intervention supporting our weapons in Libya, when we did not have a mandate to bomb the whole country, but only a mandate for a no-fly zone? It was NATO that came behind, in order to ensure the bombings. What is the record of our intervention in Libya today? As you can see, ladies and gentlemen! I admit that we are in favour of the alliance with NATO, but then we have to bear all the consequences and we have to have the courage to say it before national representation. That's why I don't want it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u235	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u236	Mr President Mélenchon, I will give you a recent assessment of NATO. Since 2014, with the annexation of Crimea and Donbass by those whom you consider our allies, the Russians, with whom we have no structured dialogue since that time, the war has left 10,000 dead, including more than 2,000 civilians. A Russian missile shot down a airliner, flight MH17, carrying 290 civilians, including 90 women and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u237	You should have come and listened to Mrs Carrère d'Encausse before the Committee on Foreign Affairs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u238	Through NATO sanctions, denial of access to Russia on what it supposed to be its territories, punishment and reaffirmation of the theory that anyone who comes to attack one of NATO's members would suffer damage greater than the expected gains, we have stopped these conflicts. We have prevented Russia from going further, if that was its destiny. And for the advanced positions of NATO that you mentioned, Mr Mélenchon, we have ensured that missile batteries are placed in Romania or in other countries, or, with regard to the French presence in the framework of Exercise Lynx, that a detachment under English command occupies a position at the eastern borders of Europe. This is a result, a concrete assessment of NATO, which must answer your question, Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u239	I call Mr Cornut-Gentille to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u240	The Government chose a military programming law until 2025. The Minister has endeavoured to show her voluntarism and that of the Government with regard to the proposed trajectory. Some members of the opposition have highlighted their doubts, particularly as regards the heaviest steps to be taken, which will arrive a little later. I see that you are going back to this distinction between the first part of the effort – EUR 1.7 billion – and the second, which reaches EUR 3 billion, highlighting in Article 2 the easily understandable difference between budgetary resources up to 2023 and financial needs up to 2025. It seems to me that it is unnecessarily pressing where it hurts: as much to remove this distinction to display your voluntarism throughout the period, until 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u242	Before giving an unfavorable opinion, I would like to make a few comments. First of all, I repeat, the objective of this LPM is the 2030 ambition. I have no doubt that all of us here agree that in 2030 we should give our armies a complete, balanced format in which we will have renewed all the intervention equipment and launched the renewal and modernization of our two nuclear components, as well as the main programmes with major effects, namely the replacement of the aircraft carrier, the air combat system and the combat tank – you all know them. Secondly, there is the ambition to have a fiscal trajectory to ensure that after the period, from 2025 onwards, we will devote 2% of GDP to the defence effort – it will remain set at 2% after 2025 and at least until 2030. In the budget time, which is that of the quinquennium, we are therefore making an LPM for five years, with budgetary resources for five years. And, as I said earlier, when we take stock of the quinquennium at the end of 2022, we will see that the defence budget has increased by EUR 8.6 billion since 2017. Imagine that the Government proposed to us a fiscal trajectory up to 2024 and 2025: you would have been the first to say that it committed the next government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u243	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u244	Yes, you would have said so!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u245	We'd have assumed, don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u246	You, perhaps, but on the other side of the House, no! So be consistent: there is a fiscal quinquennium, a financial perspective and a financial trajectory, and there is a course – a complete and balanced model for our armies. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u248	Same notice, for the reason stated above. We have made a choice of coherence – expressing the ambition to increase the defence effort to 2% of GDP – and, at the same time, of responsibility, because, as the rapporteur said, if we had firmly included the 2024 and 2025 annuities in the law, several of you would have asked us about our legitimacy in committing our country's public finances beyond the five-year period. The solution we have found to solve this real problem is to schedule an appointment in 2021, when the current majority will always be responsible, to check on the proper execution of the first years of the LPM and, on the other hand, to define the path that should lead to this 2% of GDP target, thanks to much more precise macroeconomic information than we can now have.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u249	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u250	It is true that the 2% are asking questions. I am beginning to understand better: it is not NATO that has asked France to devote 2% of GDP to defence; As France is part of NATO's integrated command, it should be said that within NATO, France and the other members have decided to increase their military budget to at least 2% of GDP. It is therefore not necessarily a question of suffering a diktat, but of accompanying it: to be a party to it, or even, being a minority, to nevertheless have to apply that proportion which could have been challenged within the Organization. A question remains, to which you do not answer. Turkey belongs to NATO. How is it that we agree to sit on the side of a country capable of slaughtering a part of a people that, in the war, was our ally against our enemy? How is it that there is not a word from France, within the integrated command of NATO, to say that it cannot last that way? Why the silence? For the time being, we have not received any answers to this question; Maybe you'll give us some tonight, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u251	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u252	We are going to vote for this amendment to be introduced, as Mr Bastien Lachaud says. But I do not want to fail to welcome Mr Kleisbauer's answer: he takes on a certain vision of defence; It's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u254	The debate takes place not only between majority and opposition: it is a question of what idea France is, at this moment, of what is true, what is false and, above all, what is good for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u255	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u256	We are protesting against NATO, and I do not share your analysis, because I do not believe that it was NATO that stopped Russia: I believe that it was NATO that provoked Russia, which is not the same thing. As far as Crimea is concerned, we do not have time to talk about it at this time, but let us simply say that we are in a very poor position to make remarks after what we have accepted from Kosovo. The method we approved when it came to creating Kosovo would no longer be appropriate for us when it is implemented across the continent? Would you say today, as a Frenchman – that is, charged with a whole story, memories and sometimes illusions, as I myself am – that we have carried out a good operation by bombing Yugoslavia, more precisely Serbia, as we have done? Was that a good idea? For my part, I do not hesitate to tell you that no! This NATO finding is a complete mistake; having created Kosovo is a complete mistake. There has been a chain of situations which we are collecting the result. And we are being asked to sniff out NATO's rational attitude towards Russia. But she's not! My colleague Lecoq has just recalled what is happening with regard to Turkey: no one finds anything to say against her having entered Syria, her neighbour! It's still amazing! And it was the same Turks who shot down a Russian fighter plane. Fortunately, the Russians are cold-blooded and all this has not degenerated! What I say is not in favour of each other; I just want to point out that the French have an interest in constantly remaining in control of the decision they will make, and in not being caught up in escalations that they do not control at the beginning, the middle, or the end, because in all circumstances it is the Americans who decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u257	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u258	[[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] I do not know whether the purpose of this MPA is to discuss our participation in the North Atlantic Treaty. But Mr. Mélenchon has a short memory. If the North Atlantic Treaty, in particular Article 5, had not existed between 1949 and 1990, it is likely that at some point we would have belonged to the Warsaw Pact camp! But yes, it's a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u259	Let Mr. Becht speak, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u260	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] NATO has protected us from this possibility. She might not have grieved you; However, suffer that this is not the case for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u261	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u262	[[Smile]] I am delighted that this amendment, the first one I am presenting, bears the number of my department, and I hope it bodes well! Our armies have been engaged beyond the operational contracts provided for by the 2013-2018 MPA. However, the attached report, which we are beginning to study, specifies these contracts by 2030. This is a bit ambiguous, as is the 2023-2025-2030 tile, given the capabilities that are being demanded of our armies and the means that are being allocated to them. This is detrimental to readability. We are therefore proposing an amendment to the Sincerisation Act, which aims to ensure that the annexed report specifies the operational contracts by 2023, in line with the budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u264	We have had this debate in committee, and my position will remain the same. You want budgetary resources to be defined and operational contracts to be brought into line with them. But what we are proposing in the Strategic Review and in this Programming Act is that in the light of the operational contracts defined by the Strategic Review, we are giving resources to our armies. These means already allow, and within the framework of the full and balanced format, to meet these commitments over the long term. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u266	Same opinion. Operational contracts are not increased based on available appropriations. That's not how it works. Operational contracts are determined according to the level of a threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u267	That's good: we're adjusting the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u268	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u269	Our vote will be the same as before, for the same reason: the goal of Sincerisation. Thank you, Mr. Becht, for resting the problem like you did. You are right, but you are talking about another time: the time when the Warsaw Pact existed, on the one hand, and NATO, on the other. That is not what I am talking about, but the situation that has prevailed since the end of the Warsaw Pact. But I am not going to go down with you to take stock of this whole period: it would far exceed the content of the text we are looking at tonight, and that would be history. It would nevertheless be interesting on at least one point: you will admit that there was, at one point in this story, a general whom my political family did not support, but who decided, when he was in power, that, even though NATO existed, we would emerge from it. He left the American bases that were in France, at the very time of the Warsaw Pact, and he imagined the defense "all azimuts". "All azimuts? Some said to him; "You exaggerate: that means everyone! "Yes, indeed, everyone," he replied. "And it is because it is everyone that everyone is called to fear us and to respect us. That was his vision of our independence. I'm trying to transpose it to the current period. Believe me, personally, I would have had no pleasure in seeing a few troops, even those of the Warsaw Pact, coming to my country: at the time as now and forever, I always had the hard head of an independentist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u270	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u271	The rapporteur, the minister, I do not understand. Operational contracts are set by 2030. There should be resources across the street. This is precisely the problem raised by the current MPA: operational contracts had been established, which have evolved in terms of the demands made, but they have not been provided with the necessary resources, which has created tension. The 2030 horizon seems very far away: we do not know where we will be at that date. We must therefore clarify what we are asking our armies, what are the terms of the contracts, at an intermediate time. The means will result: the means do not come before the contracts; It is a question of what contracts we set for our armies by 2023, by 2025, and we will then be able to examine the related means. The existence of three time horizons makes it almost impossible for the parliamentary control and evaluation of the means provided to our armies to achieve the objectives assigned to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u272	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u273	I didn't make myself clear. Operational contracts are not set by 2030...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u274	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u275	No, they are defined in the Strategic Review. Read it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u276	In the attached report, they are set for 2030!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u277	The aim is to stay on track, with modern equipment, the launch of major programmes, etc., so that the target can be reached by 2030. That's the goal of the military model. But the operational contract is valid now. In the current MPA, the White Paper defined operational contracts that resulted in an army model; But the geostrategic instability that forced us to go to Mali, then Iraq and Syria led us to overcome them – not the contrary! I therefore maintain the unfavorable opinion, unless you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u278	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u279	I may not be as intelligent as you, but in the attached report I read that these are operational contracts "to 2030". I would like to try to understand what you're telling me, but these are not current operational contracts; In fact, we don't have the equipment to respond to it. There is therefore a mismatch and inconsistency between the three temporal horizons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u280	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 197.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u281	I am not going to relaunch the debate on the 2%, but this amendment proposes to amend the annexed report in the same way as I have previously advocated. A small observation, however, to refer you to the report of the NATO summit held on 25 May 2017 in Brussels. You will find out that Mr Trump has become angry and demanded of the twenty-three out of twenty-eight member countries that had not yet reached 2% to comply.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u282	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u283	Of course, you will tell me that this threshold has nothing to do with Trump's authoritarianism in NATO... However, I would like to stress the great courage of our President of the Republic, who certainly aligned himself, saying that France would reach the 2% very quickly, but which did not fold: while Mr Trump asked that the target be reached by 2024, Mr Macron's great courage prompted him to set the horizon at 2025. What a great act the President of the Republic did on that day! [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] The wording of this amendment also allows us to show that we are not opposed to the increase in the nation's defence effort – it is written black and white – but to the figure above ground by 2%. This does not mean that there is no need to develop our country's military capabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u285	I hope we don't spend the night on the 2%, President Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u286	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u287	That way, the question will be settled!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u288	You agree to increase our effort; We would also like to specify the amount. We want to tell the French that in order to defend France, we will have to reach 2% of GDP, and we will succeed in 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u289	It's a figure off the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u290	No, it is a figure that the President of the Republic has specified in his campaign and which commits him to this law of military programming. We have already spoken on the subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u291	We're not going to convince each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u293	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u294	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u295	A little accounting: I have heard, since the beginning of this session, that expenditures that were not previously included in the military budget would be included in the military budget. As I understand it, OPEXs were not necessarily funded from the military budget as is usually understood; nor were pensions. A multitude of expenses will now enter the 2 per cent count. You seem to disagree, Madam Minister; However, I was very attentive during your speech and during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u296	I'm the one who didn't have to be clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u297	Of course, I am not a member of the Defence Committee and did not take part in the debates in committee. However, I have been assiduous to those of my Committee on Foreign Affairs; The draftsman may testify to this! To get back to the bottom, at the end of the day, it is the budget that must correspond to the needs of our armies. We do not say that the envelope should not be increased to 2%; We say that we need a budget that corresponds to the vital interests of France and the needs of the French army. If 2.5 per cent of GDP is required, let us set it at 2.5 per cent; If it takes 1.8%, let's set it at 1.8%. But let's first take stock of the needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u298	Well, you're told to set it at 2%!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u299	As I've already told you, we didn't put all the subjects down. We did not write the Strategic Review; You are using it as the Bible, but to my knowledge, it is not Parliament that is the author of it. The substantive debate did not take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u300	The debate took place in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u301	Did you discuss the Strategic Review in committee? Did you write it? You have had presentations on the needs of the army, based on what is written in the Strategic Review. The important thing for Parliament today is to work in liaison with our armies and with the people to find out what they are prepared to pay through taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u302	I'm jealous because he convinced you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u303	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u304	I would like to repeat what my colleague Laetitia Saint-Paul said. Indeed, the average defence budgets expressed as a percentage of GDP is 2.07 per cent worldwide in 2016. England is above 2%; Germany is below 1.5%, but does not have a full army like that desired by France. England has ambitions more similar to ours. Targeting 2% of GDP does not therefore appear to be incongruous, unless it is called North Korea – a state where the defence budget is more like 10% – or a country where it is down to 0.5%. This average of 2% seems to be consistent with the fact that France is the first army in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u305	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u306	This figure of 2% can be explained very simply: the United States, which is making a considerable effort, has allies who do not follow them. The United States has long wanted to see its allies mobilize more resources and buy equipment to complement their own efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u307	Especially if we buy it from them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u308	No further explanation should be sought. Yes, President Chassaigne, you are right to note that the strategies of the United States are not necessarily optimal...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u309	Not disinterested!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u310	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I wanted to bounce back on what our colleague said about Parliament's role in developing this MPA. It is true that the Strategic Review was unveiled in the media before the members of the Commission received the brochure. Things are clear: we had an audition with his editors, we were allowed to ask them a few questions. We discovered the law of military programming in the media before it came before Parliament. It's pure truth, it's factual! We have to say things as they are. There is no co-production between Parliament and the Government in the area of military programming legislation; We are making the strict minimum of our work as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u312	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] The President of the Arbitrator Republic, the Government shall prepare; a job is done, often of quality, let's say so. But let us not maintain the fiction of an essential role for Parliament and co-production. In many respects, the work of our Parliament is anecdotal: we will devote a great deal of time to presenting amendments that we have prepared, on which we have worked; But in the presence of a very faithful and docile majority, they will essentially be rejected. When we leave tired, we'll feel like we've worked well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u313	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u314	I repeat, the 2% does not date from the Strategic Review, but from the presidential campaign of candidate Emmanuel Macron. He therefore determined on his own that the 2 per cent represented the exact sum needed to correct the French armies. And as a matter of chance, this Strategic Review on which we did not have our say, which did not address the issue of nuclear deterrence or the OPEX balance sheet, established that 2% of GDP was the right sum, exactly as President Macron had anticipated. What qualities this man has! Frankly, why keep a Parliament when the President alone has the innate truth? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] However, the draftswoman for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs had obtained an amendment from her committee specifying that the 2% represented a commitment to our allies, which we had to fulfil. We regret that this amendment has disappeared and that we cannot discuss it at the sitting. Indeed, this 2% level is there to allow the Americans to sell American equipment to their NATO allies, in the name of interoperability. Moreover, we will see, when the Germans have to choose, whether they buy the American F-35 or the Eurofighter – since they have already abandoned the idea of buying a Rafale. The Americans explain that Germany's commitments within NATO require that they necessarily buy the F-35, and put pressure on the German government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u315	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u316	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The 2% target does not date from the presidential election, but from 2015. In this area, we are in continuity. It is not a question of pleasing our American partners or an industrial conglomerate, but of dealing with the threats we face, of fighting Islamist terrorism and of giving our armies the means to fulfil their missions in full. On the basis of the needs, we have defined the budgetary amounts to meet them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u317	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u318	I want President Macron to have all the flaws, but in the election campaign, all the candidates except perhaps you, Mr. Mélenchon, voted on the 2%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u319	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u320	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Some referred to the 2022 horizon, others 2024 or 2025. And when I talked to your representative, Mr Mélenchon, he certainly didn't want to talk about 2%, but he agreed on the need for an effort. He even said that if 2.5 per cent of GDP were to be spent, a 2.5 per cent budget was needed. He didn't want any encryption. On all sides of the House, we agree on the need to make an effort to defend our country. Let us be serious, both the Strategic Journals and the White Papers have always been the domain of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u321	The White Papers each covered five years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u322	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our Constitution imposes, I remind you, the separation of powers. The Strategic Review was drawn up by the executive through a commission. Of course, it could have included one or two parliamentarians, but that is the choice of the executive. This Strategic Review now engages France and national representation and we must draw all the conclusions from it in this military programming law that the Government has proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u323	You're a mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u324	I call Mr Fabien Lainé to support Amendment No. 181.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u325	Mr rapporteur, Madam Minister, I have good news for you: I will not talk to you about the 2% target set by NATO... By this amendment, we propose to amend paragraph 17, on the degradation of the safe environment. In its current wording, the report speaks of "increased competition, first of all economic and technological, but which increasingly extends to the military field. » We wish to change that wording to take into account the new threat paradigm. We propose the following statement: "An increased competition and all azimuts destructuring the traditional boundaries between economic, cultural and military fields. We are not inventing anything: this amendment takes up the analysis of the Strategic Review, which has identified the new vulnerabilities of the e-energy and media cyberspace and highlighted the strengthening of competition in the economic and military fields. The question of the articulation of military and non-military means must be addressed at the end of the reasoning. It's a real source of concern. Some powers act simultaneously on the media scene, on energy networks, while buying currencies, strategic companies, arable land. This is not a peaceful competition in a non-military field, because if these powers want to hit us, they will strike on all levels at the same time. This is an out-of-limit form of war: we would like this to be taken into account in this paragraph in a clearer way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u327	Ladies and gentlemen, you already know what answer I am going to give you, since I have already asked you, in committee, to withdraw this amendment. We have a disagreement on this point. The wording you are proposing would suggest that emerging countries competing economically with us could also compete militarily. We're not on the same line as you. Indeed, there may be tensions that lead to this possibility, but the opposite is not necessarily true. I therefore recommend that you withdraw this amendment, failing which the committee's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u329	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u330	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u331	I will cite a recent example: the Ukrainian crisis, which has developed in a context of escalation and de-escalation, according to an integral strategy of attack on all fronts, without distinction of the civilian and the military. Did we draw the consequences of this crisis? To hear your answer, Mr. Chairman, we can ask ourselves the question. And I'm not even talking about the case of China! That is why we are maintaining this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u332	Madam President, the votes for and against have not been correctly counted! Seen from here, there were more votes for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u333	It's not up to you to make the count, it's up to the presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u334	If that's the way it is, say it clearly, and we'll only have to leave!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment which has already been voted on is not put to the vote. I call Mr Fabien Lainé to support Amendment No. 183.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u336	This argument also relates to the out-of-limit war and the integral strategy. I will therefore not repeat the arguments I made when I presented the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u337	I have before me four amendments, Nos 24, 25, 26 and 155, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u338	As we have already said, in our view, the annexed report presents a biased view of the threat posed by the return of the powerful States. It would be dangerous for France, for ideological reasons, to focus exclusively on China and Russia, powers with which it should at least engage, by concealing the aggressive provisions of the United States and the worrying development of Mr Erdogan's Turkey. France's mission is to promote an international order based on law, not intimidation and the use of force. Its aim, under all circumstances, is to achieve peace. The promotion of this objective implies having a balanced view of the relations between powers, and not claiming for oneself any undue preponderance, as might be suggested in paragraph 36. This amendment aims to ensure this balance in the analysis, recalling the aggressiveness of the United States and the tightening of the Turkish regime, both inside and outside.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u339	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u340	This withdrawal amendment is in line with the one just defended by my colleague, Bastien Lachaud. It takes almost word for word the terms of the Strategic Review, which was claimed by the majority. We propose that paragraph 23 be supplemented by the following sentence: "The use of unilateral action and recent developments in American policy are part of a climate of tension. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u341	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u342	As Amendment No 24 has received an unfavourable opinion from the rapporteur in committee, we have tabled amendments to withdraw, including this one. We hope that he will have a better fate. Again, we used the terms of the Strategic Review to characterize the actions of the Turkish regime. As the Turkish army massacres our Kurdish allies, we could at least mention some concern!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u343	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u344	This amendment is more restrictive than the other amendments under joint discussion. When setting our goals, we must take into account the situation in Turkey, which is theoretically our ally in NATO. However, NATO members are supposed to defend a number of principles, including democratic ones, which Turkey has not been defending for a long time. Similarly, NATO members are supposed to help each other when it comes to fighting a common enemy, such as Daesh. We supported, equipped, armed our Kurdish allies, and the United States did the same. In NATO, we are not supposed to tolerate allies slaughtering other allies! More generally, the evolution of Turkish power, both in terms of its troubled relationship with Daesh in recent years and of its internal actions which lead the United Nations to denounce the violation of the fundamental rights of hundreds of thousands of people in Turkey, requires a debate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In any event, in this document we must ask ourselves about Turkey's flaw in the defence system to which we belong. Not doing so would be a mistake, it would be running away from the debate. We may not love the world that is coming, but it is still before us. Turkey, unfortunately, is already facing us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u345	On Amendment No 24, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u346	Mr Lachaud, I have asked you in committee to withdraw Amendment No 24, because I did not want the United States and Turkey to be included in the same sentence. That is why I proposed that you split this amendment into two, which you did with the following amendments. I therefore maintain the committee's unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 24. Amendment No 25 concerns only the United States. I know what you mean by this amendment. However, France cannot put on the same footing the tensions that one perceives on the side of the two great nations, China and Russia, and the attitude of an ally. This attitude of the United States can be questioned, but it remains a very active partner at the operational, interventional and capacity levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u347	In terms of aluminum, that's something else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u348	In our diplomatic relations, we can share our questions with the United States, but we cannot include them in the report annexed to the military programming law – not to mention that this is not included in the Strategic Review.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u349	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u350	In any case, the wording you are proposing is not included. Turkey, as President Lagarde recalled, is our NATO ally. Of course, we do not necessarily agree with this ally: today there are important differences between us. I understand that the President of the Republic, when he received his Turkish counterpart, made clear to him our strategic disagreement with the Turkish intervention in Syria. This does not mean, however, that these reflections would have their place in the Strategic Review. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to these four amendments, for all the reasons I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u351	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u352	Unfavourable opinion on these four amendments, for the reasons which the rapporteur has set out very well. Paragraph 23 of the attached report deals primarily with the development of Russian and Chinese military capabilities. The United States and Turkey cannot be placed on the same level, regardless of the recent actions of the latter two countries. As far as the United States is concerned, as the rapporteur has pointed out, apart from our long-standing ties with this country, we are acting on the ground in the Levant, as part of their coalition to fight terrorism. We are also present in the Sahel with them, not to mention NATO-led operations in Europe, which were discussed earlier. In short, the United States is an ally. However, this does not prevent us from taking a position on the actions and statements of this ally. As for Turkey, that is how it is: it is a member of NATO, and until proven otherwise, it is also our ally. You say she's not our ally; Is she, then, our enemy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u353	There are not just allies or enemies in the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u354	As the rapporteur has pointed out, the dialogue between France and Turkey is very intense at the moment. France almost daily expresses its disagreement with Turkey about the means it uses in Syria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u355	How successful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u356	That's another question! Who, for the time being, can boast of changing Turkey's attitude? No one! It is not, however, that France must not continue to express to it with obstinately its incomprehension as to the means it uses. It must also be admitted that Turkey has a number of concerns to raise, but we do not agree with its methods. For all these reasons, I am against Amendments Nos 24, 25, 26 and 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u357	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u358	Minister, the choice of words is still necessary, and this evening again. Speaking of Turkey, you said that if she is not an ally, she is an enemy. I myself asked you earlier what is a world that is not the "free world". That's the question today. Some countries on this planet may not be members of the Alliance without being our enemies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u359	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u360	They will never be, but defend values other than those of NATO, non-war values. NATO, on the other hand, carries warlike values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u361	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u362	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, Mr rapporteur, since for NATO, who is not allied, is an enemy. I'm not saying it, it's the minister. Listen again or read his words again, you'll see. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Our Turkish ally is today an enemy of our values: it locks up journalists, locks up mayors in large numbers, thousands of local elected officials, deputies because they criticize Turkish politics; He massacred our Kurdish allies who carried iron against our enemy, Daesh. That alone makes it necessary to vote on these amendments. At one point, the national representation must carry a message to Turkey: "You cannot continue. You must stop this policy. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u363	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u364	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u365	Of these four amendments which are the subject of a joint debate, the Republican Group will vote in favour of Mr Lachaud's No 26 and Mr Lagarde's No 155. It seems difficult for us not to mention Turkey's attitude, knowing that it has evolved in the manner indicated since last autumn, that is, since the Strategic Review was drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u366	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u367	Mr Mélenchon, you spoke about the lack of dialogue with Russia. In adapting our strategy to the Ukrainian crisis I mentioned, we had two phases: reinsurance and structural adjustment. We will have a third one, which will be that of the renewed dialogue. We are now in the second phase. Structural adaptation includes channels for discussion with Russia: the tripartite contact group, which includes OSCE, Russia and Ukraine; the so-called "Normandy" format, bringing together France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine, which you know, which was negotiated on the margins of the commemorations of the Normandy landing; a recently created third channel, through which an American emissary and a Russian emissary exchange. In contrast to what you said, there is therefore a dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u368	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u369	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let's see what we're talking about. It is a question of adopting a paragraph in which our country identifies threats: "More specifically, the renewal of Russian defence capabilities is accompanied by a policy of military affirmation towards its neighbourhood [what would any country do] and a worrying use of forms of strategic intimidation [what are we talking about?] In Asia, the development of Chinese military capabilities also serves as a power policy, particularly in the China Sea, increasing tensions and weakening regional balances. We don't believe a word of it. We believe, on the contrary, that China is a stabilizing factor in the area, and that the aggressive powers in it are not on the side of this country, have never been, and will never be, you know as well as I do, knowing its deep history. China has no intention of invading anyone. Therefore, my colleague Lachaud proposes that this paragraph should call into question the countries which are really problematic today, particularly in the reorganization of the great Middle East, where all the powers of the world intervene to try to re-drawing the map and where a confused battle is superimposed but whose connoisseurs see the great features: the war follows the pipelines and regional powers, sometimes after millennia conflicts, are struggling with each other, through different groups or factions unable to hide what is nothing but the old tradition of imperialism of each other against that of the other – the Persians against the Arabs, etc. In this situation, the question of the existence of a Kurdish state is also superimposed, an absolute puzzle since the First World War, which has never been solved. Turkey has decided to resolve the matter by force,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u370	By ethnic cleansing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u371	... in view of the particular circumstances of the fighting that is taking place there, considering, in favour of the stripes that the Kurds had won, that they should be liquidated. On the one hand, the PKK – the Kurdistan Workers' Party –, one of the fighting political forces, is considered a terrorist organisation, which is an aberration, and on the other hand, it is a matter of destroying all positions held militarily by the Kurds on the border with Turkey because it concerns...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u372	Thank you for closing, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u373	But, Madam President, this is an intervention on four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u374	However, the speaking time is not multiplied by four times.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u375	I am not saying that it gives the possibility to speak ten minutes, but at least to finish his sentence without being interrupted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u376	Complete your sentence, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u377	With your permission, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u378	I'll let you do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u379	Our amendments propose to designate those that are problematic rather than those that do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u380	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u381	I agree enough with Amendment No 26 because the situation in Syria is known and I am very surprised that the international community does not intervene enough to avoid the massacre of the Kurds. A few months ago, they were put forward as the first fighters against Daesh. This people has been constantly repressed, sometimes by Iraq, sometimes by Syria, now by Turkey. I call here for a better consideration of the Kurds, and I will vote for this amendment. However, I will express a nuance: when President Erdogan had the Syrian border invaded, he said that Russia agreed. It is also responsible because it does not defend the Kurds. That is why I do not agree with the other three amendments. The responsibility of the Russians, like that of NATO, cannot be ruled out, since Washington does not intervene to defend the Kurds either.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u382	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u383	I will vote for Amendment No 26 because to write that "the evolution of Turkish power both inside and outside is also cause for concern" is the minimum minimorum that the National Assembly can do. Let's say it clearly: we all have doubts about what the Turkish power is becoming. Of course, we are discussing an LPM, but I will vote if only to put forward this debate. And if I am told that there are no strategic differences between our two countries – while the minister has just said the opposite, saying that France does not agree with what the Turks are doing and remind them every day – in an area where we are at war and have supported allies themselves at war, and that this matter of concern cannot be mentioned in a document of strategic reasoning, I admit that I am surprised. Beyond that, I do not think I am totally naive and understand the reasons for the opposition to this amendment. They can be summed up into one: the reason for the state. But as a Member of Parliament, I cannot share them, and I hope that the National Assembly does not share them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u384	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u385	It's not up to us to defend the reason for the state. The YPGs, the protection units of the people, are now massacred by people who are theoretically our allies, with whom we are bound by a reciprocal defence agreement, but whose strategy we no longer share and whose troubled game they played in the development, including financial, of Daesh, and, worse, whose President has just declared that he would continue the offensive to Kobané, a city, dear colleagues, where, a few months ago, we saw the Kurds...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u386	And the Kurdish women!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u387	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... try not to be eradicated by Daesh even though the Turks prevented them from crossing the border. And today, we would stay without saying anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u388	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u389	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I do not want to let this happen without our assembly reacting. Of course, States have relationships that are sometimes ignored by reason, except for State reason. But not here, not in this Chamber. I refuse this shame to look without reacting to a people who trusted us to be massacred for the benefit of an ally who, in reality, has already betrayed us more than once!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u390	On Amendment No 26, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put Amendment No. 24 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u391	I put to the vote Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u392	The Kurds thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u393	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-03-20-O1161.u394	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025. The meeting is adjourned.
