ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1350, 1397) and of the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts (No. 1350, 1397).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u3	Restoring the confidence of our fellow citizens in our justice system is the thrust of the bill that we will be debating this week. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I want it to be recalled here that you have preferred a reform built on the recommendations of the actors on the ground and on the basis of the conclusions of the judicial works, rather than a reform that gives the impression of singular interests. You wanted a reform based on consultation and done in the interests of the litigants. I also wanted to stress your perseverance and your will, for you have not stopped discussing and meeting the actors, even though your project, like all the reforms, aroused the reactions of each other and the criticisms of the others. This bill, particularly in its civilian component, because it provides justice with the means to invest, modernize and clarify, and because it places the justiciable at the heart of the system, reassures. It reassures, first of all, by the means that are engaged. Indeed, even if a reform is not limited to figures, yours is accompanied by an increase of almost 25% in the means of justice, the creation of 6500 jobs by 2022 and an investment of more than 500 million euros in the digitisation of justice. It then reassures, because the objectives of simplification, proximity and efficiency announced are achieved. With your project, all our citizens, wherever they are in the national territory and whatever their abilities, have access to the law. The sense of justice exists only if justice is connected to reality, only if it approaches it as closely as possible. All too often, however, in practice, we are content with written exchanges which make only an imperfect account of the heart of a complex administrative situation and procedures, which leave little time for the parties to express themselves before overcrowded magistrates. If, for some, the compulsory recourse to mediation is not justice, it is not for us a form of diversion, but a privileged time to meet, listen to each other and try a conciliation. The extension to proximity disputes, small disputes and neighbourhood conflicts of the pre-trial amicable resolution attempt finally makes justice readable and accessible to those who have so far hesitated to resort to it, because the procedures are incomprehensible, multi-faceted, time-consuming and costly. We believe that not all disputes are intended to be judicialized. Why persist in bringing the matter before the judge when the parties are likely to reach an agreement? Isn't there a risk of developing relationships that would, on the contrary, benefit from being soothed? Let us take the example of divorce: this act, often very painful, already exacerbates tensions, rivalries and traumas sufficiently so that we do not add inappropriate and conflicting procedures which, each one will agree, harm everyone. Some tell us that the use of dematerialized procedures is a concern for the French. In reality, people today want to seize, communicate and follow their justice, as they can already do with most public services. Justice in the twenty-first century cannot remain at the margins of society's novations, even though it covers all its aspects. No, the justiciable will not be seulated in front of his screen, waiting for the resolution of his dispute by an algorithmic treatment. Yes, the project provides the guarantees of a physical reception desk in each place of justice and the exercise of a remedy through traditional means. Yes, the reform is timely, as it removes unnecessary formalities and reduces the time lost in determining skills and the right referral. Finally, the bill is intended to refocus the courts on their core tasks of resolving disputes and protecting rights and freedoms. All current settlements will be maintained. But effective justice is also specialized courts. The administrative merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance within the judicial court, without the disappearance of the magistrates, guarantees the maintenance of a judge of the locality. This daily judge will devote himself to litigation that affects, as closely as possible to their lives, our most vulnerable fellow citizens. For example, Madam Minister, while some see your reform as a risk of privatization of civil justice, we prefer to welcome the foundations of the re-establishment of the link between freedom and security. With this project, our justice can now focus on its fundamental tasks: to try to reconcile, first; to compromise, then; and, failing that, to decide. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, allow me, Madam Minister, to question you in my capacity as president of the mission on juvenile justice. The bill is aware of this issue, as it provides for the establishment of twenty closed educational centres and the testing of a new day-care facility. These proposals are very positive, but the juvenile criminal justice system, including the 1945 Ordinance, probably needs to be addressed more comprehensively, at the cost of further work. I know that you are personally committed to it, as you have pointed out, but we would like the Government to assure us that the reform of the 1945 Order will take place as soon as possible, because we know that the parliamentary calendar is already well filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u4	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u5	Minister, do not be angry, but the tone of my speech will be a little different from that of my colleague and friend Jean Terlier. For decades now, French justice has lacked resources, with jails and overcrowded prisons. In the long run, this led to a breach of French confidence in their judges. Basically, the expectations of our fellow citizens are quite simple. They are waiting for the right to be said quickly, when they are in conflict. If they are victims of a criminal offence, they hope that the sanctions will be quick, if not immediate, and that the sentences imposed will be effective. It was because you were aware that your ministry did not meet that expectation that you announced a year ago, Madam Minister, your willingness to reform and modernize the justice system in our country. After the conciliation phase, through the work of justice, the chancellery has drawn up, under your authority, the texts that you present to us today. You promise to build "a fairer, more accessible, simpler and more efficient justice." These words, you've been pounding them for months. I shall therefore try, on behalf of my group, to assess the scope of this reform, starting with what is central to any reform, namely the financial resources allocated to it. Of course, Madam Keeper of the Seals, your budget will increase by €1.6 billion by 2022, under a law on the programming of the means of justice. However, this increase will not be enough to fill the backlog that has been in place for so many years. We believe that this effort is not commensurate with the needs and challenges, and the Senate, in its great wisdom, has already told you so. Let's just stop by the numbers for a moment. The justice budget was abounded by 260 million euros in 2018, and 300 million euros are planned for 2019, or 560 million euros in two years. This could be welcomed, but I would ask you to put these figures in perspective with the trajectory of compulsory levies, which, during the same period, are growing by 42 billion euros. You will find that your budget, that of one of the main Regal missions, represents only 0.013% of that amount. To make things clear, over the two years 2018 and 2019, the justice budget weighs little more than 0.01% of the additional tax effort you asked the French. I come to the reforms themselves. With regard to prison services, prison overcrowding was a scourge that was not being defeated. There would be a lot to say about this... I will summarize the situation by recalling that this overcrowding affects the conditions for the reintegration of prisoners and affects the working conditions of prison staff. While candidate Macron had committed himself to creating 15,000 places during the quinquennium, the text foresees only 7,000 places by 2022. Should I point out that the construction plan for the establishments, at the moment we are talking, is not finalized? If we incorporate the time required for its completion, that of the administrative procedures and the constructions themselves, it is clear that this target of 7,000 places by 2022 is unattainable. With regard to the reorganization of civil justice, the draft law provides for the administrative merger of the District Court and the High Court to make it a judicial court. You have repeatedly reiterated, Madam Minister, that this merger would not result in the closure of courts. But, in this case, what is the point of this reform? You know, we have two fears; on the one hand, to see a number of small litigation cases, drowned in the courts; On the other hand, the conclusion that this merger is only one step, the next being the abolition of all or part of the 300 local courts. You are still going to certify that you do not intend to do so, and I believe in your good faith, but open your eyes, Madam Minister: there is a determinism on this subject that is beyond our control. On civil procedure, we have a number of comments to make to you. With digitisation, the referral will necessarily be made online: it will therefore be the end of the normal access of the litigant to his judge. Moreover, how can a digital court decision, i.e. a dehumanized decision, be truly fair? We have the feeling that digitisation keeps citizens away from truly human justice. Our group is also surprised that you are proposing, with prior mediation, a form of privatisation of justice. Indeed, private companies will intervene at the mediation stage. However, we are not sure that, under these conditions, the most fragile of the litigants will be defended fairly. Article 4 of the ordinary law extends the scope of disputes for which representation by a lawyer is mandatory, including technical disputes, disputes relating to rural leases and expropriations, and customs disputes. This obligation seems to us to be a bad consequence of the merger of IT with IMTs, and it will have implications for legal aid. With regard to divorce, the bill provides for the abolition of the conciliation hearing in the litigation divorce proceedings. As we have said in the Law Commission, we believe that this can promote a logic of confrontation between the parties and thus lead to an increase in the number of divorces for fault. On criminal procedure, we are in favour of measures to promote the work of investigators, namely: to simplify and extend the investigation of flagrante delicto; to simplify the procedures for the detection of drivers with regard to alcohol or drug use; extending the powers of judicial police officers; introduce the single authorization of a judicial police officer; or, simplify requisitions for preliminary investigation. We believe that the creation of a national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office is necessary, given the reality of the risks in this area. On penalties, we have several proposals. First, the scope of application of the flat-rate fine may be extended to other offences. Secondly, it is up to the trial court to decide whether or not there will be a change of sentence. Thirdly, the trial court must have the free choice between an immediate execution of the sentence imposed, an adjustment ab initio by itself, a deferred arrest warrant or a referral to the sentence enforcement judge, in order to better specify the modalities of any adjustment. Fourthly, the penalty of in-home detention under electronic supervision must be ruled out because of the confusion it creates with the use of electronic supervision. Fifthly, the automatic nature of two-thirds of the sentence under duress is inappropriate. I now turn to digitization in criminal matters. In the particular case of crimes or offences committed against persons, the digitization of the procedure seems inappropriate. On the one hand, from a human point of view, how do you think that a person who has experienced such a trauma can sit quietly in front of his computer and write his complaint online? On the other hand, from the point of view of the effectiveness of the investigation, it is necessary to hear the complainant immediately and to travel, sometimes quickly, to the scene to make findings, to gather evidence, to hear witnesses, to apprehend and to audition the author or alleged perpetrators. While digitisation can be conceived in certain situations, it does not seem to us to be appropriate at all in the case of crimes and offences committed against persons. The bill provides for the trial, in some departments, of a criminal court, composed of five professional magistrates, to try crimes punishable by 15 to 20 years' imprisonment. On this subject, the real motivation is to save money and go faster in case management. In the assize court, we go back to zero, because the jurors don't know the substance of the case. What is happening at the hearing is essential, however, because it is not just about what was done during the investigation: it takes time, but it is a necessary time. This proposal is a camouflet to one of the most beautiful achievements of the French Revolution. It is no less than the correction of crimes punishable by 15 to 20 years' imprisonment. I would like to raise the issue of the independence of the judiciary, absent from your organic bill, while it underlies the confidence of our fellow citizens in the justice system, which needs to be re-established. You have told me in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that this matter will be dealt with at a later stage, but it does not seem to me unnecessary to discuss it in the context of this text. This principle of independence of judges is often examined under the prism of their possible distance from the executive, but I believe that the risk of influence must be heard in a broader way. In order to guarantee the full independence of the judiciary, we could consider stricter rules of ineligibility – including, for a period to be determined, for those who have left the profession – and the principle of non-membership of a political party, a trade union organisation or even a philosophical or religious association. In the end, we believe that the various simplification measures, in civil or criminal matters, are in the right direction. On the other hand, we consider that the budget does not meet the objectives and challenges. The goal of creating 7,000 prison places by 2022 is both very insufficient and unattainable. The merging of IT and IMT, and the digitization of procedures, keep the citizen away from human justice; The dematerialization of complaints is inadequate in criminal matters for many crimes and offences. Therefore, I regret to say that the Republicans are inclined to vote against this text. I spoke ten minutes and a second, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u6	Well done, Congressman! You have respected your speaking time like Mr. Terlier before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u7	They're afraid of you, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u8	Mr. Jumel, you're lending me too much power. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u9	The Justice Reform Bill before us today is undeniably one of the major pieces of legislation we will be debating in this Parliament. It gives us the opportunity to substantially rethink the meaning and functioning of justice in France. In the words of lawyer Hans Kelsen, "The experience of injustice is clear to our conscience, but justice remains difficult, if not impossible, to identify and define. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u10	What a culture!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u11	Yet justice is at the heart of our social and democratic contract. Articulated around two functions, it is, on the one hand, a guarantor of the fundamental values of our society, in particular individual freedoms – it thus allows, to use Aristotle's formula, "to give to each one his due": each citizen can claim his due, his right, before a judge entrusted with the authority to apply the law – and, on the other hand, has the objective of preserving social peace. This latter function is expressed in particular by the cathartic dimension of the trial and by the restorative purpose of the judicial decision. As justice is essential to our democracy, it must be given the best means of functioning and made accessible to all citizens. For many years, however, our judicial system has been faced with serious shortcomings: underfunded and congested courts, vacancies in posts, excessive processing times, overcrowding in prisons, prison staff who have been overstretched, the list is, alas, still long. Between 1959 and 2017, the European Court of Human Rights thus condemned France to two hundred and seventy-two times, solely on the basis of the violation of the right to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u12	And this will continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u13	In comparison, 24 convictions were handed down against Germany and only one against Denmark. These shortcomings are largely due to insufficient funding for justice. In 2016, the public budget allocated to the per capita judicial system did not reach 66 euros, while it represented 122 and 157 euros in our German and Luxembourg neighbours. But comparison is not entirely right, and the budgetary question cannot be the only cause of the dysfunctions of our judiciary, nor the only answer. In view of these findings, you have wished, Madam Minister, to launch a reform on the basis of the consultation and reflections carried out in the five areas of justice which you have conducted. The MODEM and related groups welcome this work of consultation, as well as the increase in the budget of justice provided for in the bill, on a continuous basis and throughout the quinquennium. Finally, this increase reflects an ambitious and unprecedented budgetary effort. It will allow a serene and relevant programming of the investments to be made. This fiscal curve, which will lead to a 24 per cent increase in the budget in 2022, will be accompanied by a significant strengthening of the human resources of our justice system. Some will consider this effort insufficient,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u14	Yes, we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u15	... and they will not be completely wrong, but the majority are subject to budgetary discipline that we assume, and the reform of the justice system proposed in this text goes beyond the budgetary question. These additional resources will make it possible to deploy the following projects: the improvement of the working conditions of staff, thanks in particular to a reduction in vacancies and improved professional recognition; a great plan for the digitisation of justice, which will allow for effective time savings, but also greater proximity for the justiciable; the construction of 7,000 prison places by 2022 and the improvement of the maintenance of the existing park. We have said this and repeated it during the work that the Law Commission, under the leadership of its President Yaël Braun-Pivet, carried out on the issue of prison: it is not and should not be the only response to a conviction. And while we believe that prison is not and should not be the only way to punish, it is nevertheless necessary to profoundly improve the conditions of detention in our country: out of dignity and humanity for prisoners, but also for prison staff. Alternatives to detention will be developed and the support of persons placed in the hands of justice improved, through a development of integration and probation, with a view to combating recidivism, a real double penalty for society. The MODEM and related groups welcome the bill's structuring idea of bringing justice closer, more readable and faster – I am thinking in particular of the measures that allow judges to refocus their offices. The development of alternative dispute resolution methods, the simplification of procedures and the increased use of dematerialisation will give all actors in the judicial chain the means to optimize their work. The litigants will then be better informed and connected to the courts. They will be able to see an acceleration in the processing of their applications. In addition, the bill brings with it a real innovation, that of a new scale of criminal sanctions. The trial bodies will thus be able to condemn any other sanction to work of general interest in an independent manner. They will also be able to directly arrange certain firm prison sentences. These measures will, we hope, lead to real individualized and alternative sanctions for prison, and will constitute a major step forward in the individualization of sentences. As of January 1, 2018, the prison occupancy rate was 115 per cent: we cannot satisfy ourselves with this figure, especially since the situation in the prisons is alarming. Indeed, in July 2018, 1667 people were sleeping on a mattress on the ground in our prisons, and in many cases three or four inmates occupy cells of 9 square meters. In 2009, Rachida Dati already denounced an alarming situation in our prisons; In presenting her prison bill, she refused to hide "the reality of our prison situation: a strong overcrowding, outdated institutions, acts of violence committed in detention. It was almost ten years ago, and the situation has not changed, or rather it has not improved. Our prisons are always full and old, there is a climate of insecurity, and prisoners often come out more delinquent than when they entered. The Government had established a follow-up of the radicalized public detainees, but the prison remained, for the most part, a toxic place. In view of this, we must use alternative means of confinement, to punish and re-integrate. As on many other subjects, the majority is not responsible for this alarming situation, but inherits it. We must not run away from these difficulties and we have a duty to deal with these issues: we owe it to the incarcerated, we owe it to the prison staff and we owe it to all citizens. Before I finish, I would like to go back to the points of disagreement, or rather vigilance, that we have on the project. The MODEM and related group wanted to present proposals to you, in order to improve certain aspects of this text. I would like to highlight two points here. The first concerns Article 6 giving the directors of the family allowance funds, for an experiment, the possibility of revising the contribution to the maintenance and education of children. This measure seems to us to have to be further clarified and framed, and the amendments voted by the Senate provide us with avenues to explore. It seems to us to be essential, a minimum, that the appeals which may be brought against the decisions of the Directors of CAF be suspensive. The second point of vigilance is the use of video-audience, which you call video-conferencing. We are opposed to it, for justice must remain incarnate and human. Removing the physical proximity between the judge and the accused, even for extensions of pre-trial detention, is not a solution capable of remedying the lack of resources and the real difficulty of moving an inmate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u16	That's what's going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u17	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u18	The use of video conferencing must remain the exception, and it is not possible, except in exceptional circumstances already provided for by law, to dispense with the consent of the person concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] So, you will have understood, apart from these few reservations, which we will be debating in the coming days, the MODEM Group fully supports this text, which foreshadows what justice will be in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u19	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u20	These texts are very controversial. They raise serious concerns, expressed by judges, who demand human and material resources, not new laws amending procedures, by lawyers, who, contrary to what I hear a lot here, do not advance corporatist arguments, by associations, by the players in the prison world, who want only means and more independence in their management, and by the people who are litigants. These concerns relate to the three pieces of legislation, including the budget planning law, which is considered ill-designed in its priorities and insufficient, in particular by the Senate, which stands for an increase of not 1.3 billion euros, but 1.9 billion. I consider that the Government is making an important effort, which I would like to welcome, notwithstanding the very relevant comments made by our colleague Masson. On the method, the trajectories of justice, which preceded the text, as the consensus conference of Christiane Taubira had preceded the law on the individualization of sentences and enhanced the effectiveness of criminal sanctions, are part of the incontrovertible consultation that must precede any project of magnitude. I welcome the organisation, despite its hasty character, denounced by some of the project's references. As we have already said, parliamentarians have also been subjected to severe strain: accelerated procedure and immediate consideration in public sitting, with a deadline for tabling amendments of three days for a long text, strongly amended by the Government and the majority in the Committee on Laws. Finally – and this is not the first time we can blame it – the very substantial regulatory part and the many authorizations to act by order do not help to accurately measure the effects and scope of the bill. We share the founding principles of this text. The legislative work carried out in 2014 and 2016 has been recognized in the courts. This text does not, moreover, turn its back on the orientations that we had taken, placing the judge at the heart of the dispute, trying to make the action of the justice system readable and accessible, and giving full scope to the SAUJ, the unique reception services of the TGI litigant. The reorganization of the courts has been amended: the safeguarding of the status of the trial judge and the formation of the courts of appeal into separate chambers – the exact term still to be found – guarantee the existence of a door of proximity for the protection dispute. We will ensure that this is always the case. As for the development of the amicable settlement of disputes, we do not dispute the principle – we developed it ourselves in our own way during the previous quinquennium. With regard to the dematerialization of dispute settlement, we must chart the way forward. In the long run, it is an ally of the proximity and speed of the decision expected by the litigant. Finally, with regard to the meaning and effectiveness of sentences, it seems to us that sanctioning an offence – no matter how serious – is not an end in itself. Recidivism must be prevented, thereby putting an end to the short prison sentences and mass pre-trial detention, which cause a worrying congestion in our detention centres. The execution of the criminal response must also be swift. If all this resonates as evidence, that was not the case some time ago. Robert Badinter, in the preface of a recent book on prison co-signed by our former colleague Dominique Raimbourg, wrote that "there is now a national consensus in France on the foundations of criminal justice. "The majority of citizens are aware that our prisons should be more humane, that prison overcrowding should be combated, that the system of penalties should promote the reintegration of prisoners, that the misfortune of the victims should be a priority and that the prison for minors is not a panacea. » On this subject, we can now transcend the oppositions of principle and advance a project of interest to the whole Republic. The criminal constraint, which we put in place in 2014, met this requirement of general interest. It has, it seems to me, contributed to changing attitudes, despite its relative failure, due to the lack of dedicated time and resources. We agree with you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, on the need to give the sentences carried out outside the prison walls the status attached to incarceration, to set a scale of unindexed sentences of imprisonment, to prohibit short prison sentences and to limit the number of temporary prisoners. With regard to prison overcrowding, we have always considered that more prison places should be built, not to imprison more, but to achieve two objectives: to diversify places of imprisonment and, above all, to guarantee 80 per cent of prisoners who wish to do so an individual confinement. The combined action of alternatives to prison, of forced release and of the construction of new places of imprisonment could enable us – with appropriate means – to overcome this precisely condemned overcrowding. Moreover, while we basically share the guidelines of the text, their implementation – as provided for in the text – calls for severe criticism and calls for caution. We Members must ensure that in the texts we vote we maintain equal access to the judge and access to the right of every citizen, wherever he or she is in the national territory and whatever his or her social situation. We must ensure that the simplification and dematerialization of judicial procedures do not affect the users of justice. We need to make transitions and look after the "human presentiel," which you rightly referred to, Madam Sealing. Let us learn from the failed dematerialization of driving licences and grey cards! We also need to organize, in a more legible and framed way, the mechanisms of conciliation, mediation and participatory procedure, which put the justiciable outside the walls of the court until the dispute is crystallized. Once satisfied with this prerequisite – which we do not think should be mandatory – a guarantee of access to the judge within a reasonable time should be provided by the text, in return for this first commitment. Finally, during the pre-trial phase of the judge's intervention, what role does the lawyer play as a valuable legal aid? Should it not be better associated with it, in a more organized, differentiated and legible manner by law? With regard to the criminal aspect, I contest the generalization of special investigative techniques and the reduction from five to three years of the quantum of the penalty incurred from which a preliminary investigation may give rise to a search of the home without the consent of the person concerned. The procedural guarantees provided for in the text seem insufficient to me. Moreover, the report of the referents of the judicial project "Improving and simplifying the criminal procedure", Jacques Baume and Franck Natali, does not say anything else. His reading reinforces me in the requirement to strengthen the adversarial debate during the investigation, in order to compensate for the powers of the prosecutor's office. Moreover, I believe – like them – that we must be careful about reforms that strengthen the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office until the Constitution guarantees the independence of the appointment of prosecutors. As far as the scale of sentences is concerned, I fear that the determination of the quantum of sentence for the benefit of an ab initio one year sentence rather than two will run counter to the salutary objective of combating prison overcrowding. On the other hand, not making probation a full sentence and retaining its support for a prison sentence is a missed opportunity to give it scope. Finally, very worrying is the hiatus between the envisaged criminal policy – to which I agree on many points – and the staff of clerks as well as integration and probation advisers, whose number, although increased by 1500 by 2022, will not suffice to make alternatives to imprisonment a powerful, effective and quality remedy. I therefore fear the failure of the development of alternative measures to imprisonment, mainly for this reason: what reality should be given to the personality file of the accused or the detainee without sufficient officers to constitute him? The State, night watchman, in charge of regal functions, must not escape its duty to regulate the commodification of law. It must protect the public service from justice. He must allocate a significant budget and let the professionals work. This reform does not constitute the great evening of criminal proceedings or civil proceedings, as you have pointed out, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Both texts have positive and less positive points. In the end, there is a lack of a comprehensive reform of the penal component, for which the constitutional review should have been delayed. In my view, there is also a lack of a comprehensive restorative justice project, a qualitative approach based on a judicial culture that seeks the outline of any offender and places the prevention of recidivism in the hard of our brains. Not having gone further in this register is a missed opportunity. This observation, which I have made in the Committee on Laws, is nothing anecdotal. Beyond the five areas of justice that you have opened, Madam Minister, there is one that must be taken over by national representation, that of the citizen's confidence in the public service of justice. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on some of the GDR benches]] A poll conducted in 2013, corroborating other surveys, indicated that 95 per cent of our citizens want justice faster, 90 per cent want justice more readable and 60 per cent want justice more effective. Do the texts that we are going to examine respond to these aspirations? It is on the basis of these demands and our desire to promote a public service of justice of a quality equivalent to that found elsewhere in Europe that we will discuss.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u21	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u22	The findings on the difficulties facing justice in our country are shared by all. The state of affairs is unglorious. The cruel lack of human, material and financial resources sometimes leads to degraded and suffering justice, both for victims and for legal professionals as well as for litigants. Therefore, changing the destiny of justice in order to restore its dignity must be a priority. Of course, it must be modernised, streamlined and simplified. That is why we support the establishment of dematerialisation, oralisation and reorganization of procedures, as well as a certain reduction of the judge's burden through the transfer of powers. However, the debate must live up to the challenges, because justice is a pillar of the social contract and an essential mission of the State. It is by keeping these two fundamental statements in mind that we must address the texts before us. They justify the various aspects on which our group will be particularly vigilant. First of all, France's bad pupil in terms of the means granted to his justice demonstrates the urgent need to increase his budget significantly. While the Government's effort is notable, it is insufficient in our view. That is why we will propose new financial programming that is close to the European average and more in line with the real needs of the institution. Beyond international comparisons, previous developments in the budget envelope for justice have obviously been undervalued. Thus, it seems imperative to make a more significant budgetary effort, so that justice can be done under acceptable conditions. It is at this price that the State will regain its credibility in order to assume this very important mission. Access to justice must also remain a priority. The proposed merger of the courts of special jurisdiction and specialisation of certain spare chambers should not put at risk, in the long term, the abolition of places of justice, particularly in rural areas. For the latter, absolute guarantees must be provided to ensure that local justice will not be weakened. This is a crucial point, because it is this justice that is most needed for our fellow citizens on a daily basis. This justice "small disputes", as is sometimes called, must continue to guarantee social peace every day throughout the territory. Moreover, and above all, it is often the most vulnerable. It cannot therefore become an adjustment variable of the judicial map. We will present amendments to better guide these various projects. Many sections of the bill deal with the role of the judge. On this point, we must pay attention to the very core of his task, particularly in the area of criminal law. Marginalization of the prison sentence is a desirable development, but the judge must be able to individualize his judgement without being locked into counterproductive threshold effects. In addition, working towards the effective enforcement of sentences will restore its legitimacy to the judicial decision. That is why we are putting forward the removal of automatic sentencing credits and the re-establishment of the more flexible sentencing scale put in place by the Senate. This makes sense, as we will try to demonstrate. I will focus on two issues, first of all on the enforcement of sentences, on which I had the opportunity to work some ten years ago. Our police and gendarmerie are doing their job, extraordinary, just as justice is doing its own. However, in many cases the enforcement of sentences does not follow. As a result, convicted persons are rarely aware of the seriousness of the acts attributable to them or even do not understand that they have committed a crime. Victims, on the other hand, do not obtain the reparation to which they are entitled. Much of the reason lies in the mismatch between the judicial reality of our country and the perception of our fellow citizens. We need justice that is understood, that respects the justiciable and that above all supports the victims. I will then refer to psychiatric follow-up, absent from the bill. Ten years ago, in the framework of our committee, I drafted a report on the psychiatric follow-up of minors, whose situation, which was already alarming at the time, is even more so today. The problem overlaps with the enforcement of sentences, as some acts call for psychiatric follow-up, which is not always effective. We should therefore look at the matter, in conjunction with the Ministry of Health, in order to propose alternatives to confinement. In the end, the apparent intentions of those provisions aimed at redressing justice were commendable. We will support some of them. However, the philosophy behind this reform must be unequivocal: the support of the victims with respect for the people involved, through a renewed administration of justice at the height of his office.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u23	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u24	Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mrs. and Mr. Rapporteurs, Ms. Thirty-second Minister of Justice,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u25	There will be one thirty-third!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u26	... political fiction has this extraordinary that it enables us to work to highlight the reality of our contemporary world through the political choices still to be made. [[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] When we say the word "justice", we do not fear that it is an empty, vain, ambiguous and weakening word. On the contrary, we know that this great word, which the great French Revolution has made sound, the Uberized people, the impoverished and impoverished people, who will tomorrow be the humanity of peace and law, put in it its strength, its hope, its substance, its vigour, its energy! That is why we welcome the advent of justice with confidence! The reform that I have the honour to propose to you is essential for the Republic and safety. It fundamentally breaks with the state of clochardization in which successive governments have reduced justice. First of all, the territorial organisation of the judicial system in France is an essential democratic issue for our fellow citizens, based on geographical proximity and universality of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u28	[[Smile]] It's not bad, this seal keeper!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u29	It is necessary to break with the reforms of the judicial map carried out successively by Rachida Dati and Nicole Belloubet, which increased the number of courts from 1200 to 800, as well as with the advent of the second chambers, which, through fusion and restructuring, made it possible to make the proximity to the concept of "places of justice". Respect for fundamental rights and freedoms must no longer be seen as the opposite of good justice. Without going back to the origins of criminal law, our contemporary society – under the guise of ensuring security that has become "first freedom" – has endorsed with the laws Perben, Collomb and Belloubet a violation of rights, without on the one hand ever assessing the objective reality of the state of the proceedings, and on the other hand intellectually defining our society's plan for criminal justice. Increasing powers have always been given to a structurally unindependent magistrate and without democratic counter-power, the police becoming no longer the judicial instrument but arbitrarily left in a potentially liberticided administrative labyrinth. Finally, armed with caricatured justice, the prison has become the alpha and omega of the penal policies of the seal guards, thus reducing to the skin of grief a probation become more a tool of communication than a concrete reality. We must break with the real estate expansion of the French prison park. From Chalandon to Belloubet, we have constantly built these squares that condemned France to profit from their occupation... Never have we ever wondered about the meaning of the pain or its objective reality! For the real question arises upstream: is prison necessary for this behaviour considered not to respect the social norm? We propose rationally, and because it is the only acceptable solution, a prison and criminal deflation for our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u30	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u31	That is why the project that today is "insubstantiated" to your sagacity is built around the idea of justice for human progress – justice in the name of the people, simply! The judicial desert established by Dati and Belloubet was used only to allow the deployment of private companies to the detriment of quality justice and community justice. The litigant has lost his access to the judge, forced to respond to the gafiated legaltech that prejudge decisions in a balance of algorithmic profitability. These platforms, in our project, will be subject to strict mandatory certification by professionals and users, as well as random checks, when created and on a regular basis. We will deploy courts with a sufficient number of officials and magistrates. Only public service can respond to injustice, and sometimes social injustice, in a peaceful and equitable manner. That's why we're going to re-establish more than 300 local jurisdictions. We offer you a vision of the professions of justice. No more, the time of precarisation of the magistrate by satellite jobs! The role of magistrates has been reduced to that of mere judicial executors. In order to impose a requirement of quality of justice, but also independence, we choose the principle of collegiality, and correlatively assign sufficient numbers of registry officials. We will put in place an innovative program of access to justice for all by redefining legal aid so that not only the poorest people can benefit from it, but also lawyers can be decently paid. We want to promote digital technology, so that it is a tool for access to justice and not a reason for exclusion or dehumanization. The technological backwardness of the courts must above all be caught up with an ambitious equipment plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u32	It's planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u33	Furthermore, the creation of a free public conciliation and mediation service will be a real step forward for citizens who want to resort to this form of horizontal justice that complements guaranteed access to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u34	That's a really good new minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u35	Our predecessors have been irresponsible in entrusting the powers of investigating judges to a magistrate dependent on the executive branch, without any consideration for the guarantees of individual freedoms, regardless of the personal qualities of the prosecutors in question. Our project aims to establish a centrality of an investigation renewed by collegiality, and by setting up teams of judicial police officers – OPJ – in secondment to the courts, in order to avoid any temptation of intrusion of the hierarchy of the Ministry of the Interior at the heart of sensitive investigations. The prosecutor will be physically brought closer to the police to ensure his/her role in conducting first-level investigations and to be more accessible to the police. He will thus be able to accompany local police officers in the treatment of petty crime, with discernment, as close to the field as possible. There can be no reform of the justice system without reform of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, as well as of criminal orientation. With the creation of a Supreme Council of Justice, we guarantee the independence of the judiciary from the executive: this council will be composed partly of magistrates and qualified personalities appointed by the Parliament and no longer by the Government and the President. No more criminal policy instructions in the direct hand of the minister! We hope that Parliament, by means of a criminal law, will decide on the criminal policy that the country wants to adopt. It is the idea of safety which, beyond the concept of security, preserves the arbitrariness whose public action is not exempt by nature. The conduct of a policy of criminal deflation and imprisonment is now required of all political formations. With this project, we take on our responsibilities. Criminal law itself is the cause of the consequences that it has to deal with. The most obvious example is that of recidivism: these are often many crimes linked to precariousness, which build a path of desocializing delinquency. There are also some mass behaviours that need to be addressed through other means, such as education and prevention, which are more effective in preventing the commission of these acts. That is why we propose a legible and consistent sentencing scale, around a triptych: fine, probation, confinement. Every actor in our democracy must take part in the determination of punishment. Both the legislator and the judge must characterize behaviour that must or must not be punished by a custodial sentence. We are therefore going to pursue a policy of deflation in prisons that is consistent, in the first place, with criminal policy. But to go further, it is the prison hyperstructures that must be put to an end. They are nonsense in the fight against crime and dehumanizing both prisoners and prison staff. Priority should be given to human-sized structures located in employment areas, served by transport, with detention regimes rethought around the individual on a course of execution of his sentence. These structures must be multiple but based on the most flexible basic care, inspired by improved "compliance modules", designed as the standard of care and not as a rule of custody management, which pushes the arbitrariness by administrative assignment. However, we do not neglect the fight against prison overcrowding, which will be conducted on the basis of the principles of penal proceedings, the obligation of the magistrate to motivate the choice of confinement rather than an open-ended measure and a mechanism of prison regulation. We will drastically reduce the number of pretrial detentions by reforming their use. The victim will regain her place thanks to a massive investment in restorative justice methods, as one cannot be satisfied only with the response offered by the criminal trial. The idea of justice is severely attacked by a feeling, deep in the country, of double standards. The examples do not lack weak and miserable ones judged harshly, nor strong and powerful ones judged lightly because they have the means to defend themselves. And I don't throw stones at magistrates: they're just applying the law! That's the one that needs to be changed. The rules on white-collar delinquency and financial delinquency clearly illustrate what this weak justice with the strong is. We therefore propose to tighten monetary penalties in this area, to impose penalties in an open environment, including work of general interest, and to drastically increase the number of police and justice officers involved. The tools to combat the delinquency of the powerful must cease to be a succession of windows. It's time we strengthened the backyard! As far as the local police are concerned, we propose to pacify relations with the handing over of a receipt during an identity check. The means of police and investigation will no longer be limited to identity checks alone; law enforcement forces will be able to build on the concrete and close ties established with the inhabitants. With regard to the mass crime caused by the criminalization of the use of drugs, it is time that we emerged from hypocrisy by legalizing cannabis and decriminalizing the use of drugs to focus judicial action on traffickers. We will therefore legalize cannabis, from production to sale, with state supervision – for reasons of public health, public order, and taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u37	[[Smile]] This is probably the best way to cut the grass under the foot of the traffickers. Our justice, however regalist function of the rule of law, has been overturned by successive policies of abandonment and renunciation in the name of sacrosanct austerity. The facts are stubborn and the figures are alarming: with only 10 professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants, our country is at the bottom of the ranking. To respond to these emergencies, we propose, as a first step, to repair the damage caused by austerity policies in the first year, by measures that are distributed as follows. We will increase the number of judges, administrative staff and clerks by 4400 posts, for 200 million euros; we will allocate 250 million to the renovation of the courts and prisons; we will open branches of the integration and probation services in an open environment – SPIP MO – in order to reinvest in the reintegration, for € 22.5 million; we will double the prevention of recidivism budget for EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u38	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u39	This is the detailed project that we are presenting before you. More precisely, that is the project that a progressive Government should defend in order to bring justice to the height of contemporary challenges. That's what a government would have told me about. If he had a little letter and spirit for justice: But in spirit, o the most lamentable of governments, He would never have an atom, and letters He only has those who make up The word: economy! Had he had the invention that was necessary? To be able there, in front of these noble galleries, To serve us all these proposals, That he would not have articulated a quarter of it Half the beginning of one, for We serve them in unsuspecting France, With enough verva, [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] For the people and the ideal of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u40	It's a little short, young man!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u41	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u42	Far from gaining everyone's consent, this reform of the justice system is more unanimous against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u43	Long live justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u44	From renewed strikes to "dead days" of justice, the unprecedented mobilization has increased over the months. Last Thursday again, lawyers, magistrates, clerks, justice professionals expressed their anger, their concerns and their rejection of your project. They denounce both the concertation of facades carried out within the framework of the justice projects, a lack of vision, an insufficient budget and a management logic. In short, they tell us that this reform has not been built with them or in the interests of the justiciable. The method of denying the word of the intermediate bodies becomes the trademark of this government. In the period we are living, in the face of the country's roar, you would be well inspired to break up with this practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u45	That would be good, indeed...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u46	This text, presented as a text of simplification and modernisation, is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u47	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u48	In the face of a public service of justice "in breath", "in a state of absolute emergency" or even "in the process of clochardisation", to take up the qualifiers that are now accepted by everyone, the increase in the budget by 2022 and the breakdown of the appropriations will not make it possible to get out of the crisis. The increase relates to a budget so impoverished that the structural delay in justice will not be caught. This is highlighted in the latest report of the European Commission on the effectiveness of justice: France devotes too little resources to its judicial system. It is ranked fourteenth out of twenty-eight, with 72 euros per capita per year devoted to justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u49	Yes, to repeat is to teach!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u50	Under the guise of simplification and improvement, your project actually aims to reduce costs. This is a purely managerial reform, aimed at limiting access to the judge and transferring entire sections of this regal mission to the private sector, rather than giving the judiciary the means to carry out its mission. It is a matter of reducing procedures, to the detriment of certain procedural guarantees, but to the benefit of a greater speed of the judicial machinery. This reform, which has no logic other than that of the management and flexibility of staff, is illegible and inconsistent. Thus, it advocates the specialisation of certain courts of appeal or courts in certain specific disputes, while abolishing the jurisdiction of proceedings and restricting collegiality; It advocates a better readability but provides for different competences, with varying geometry, of courts depending on the jurisdiction. The situation will therefore remain critical for both the judiciary and the prison administration. In a forum published on 5 November last, the children's judges of the Bobigny High Court, once again, called for relief in the face of the severe deterioration of child protection systems in Seine-Saint-Denis. The delays in taking care of minors at risk are unacceptable: "18 months between the hearing at which the decision is handed down by the juvenile judge and the assignment of the follow-up to an educator. The deadlines for criminal judgements are about one year. "We know the reasons," they wrote, "a blatant lack of staff, linked to budgetary restrictions." And they conclude: "We have become judges of false measures." However, neither your bill nor the budget that accompanies it allow us to consider an improvement in the situation. I therefore note that we are in a republic which considers that the poor people of the Seine-Saint-Denis, this great popular department, are entitled only to poor justice, which is the opposite of the republican promise. The Government was too determined to remain in the straitjackets of budgetary orthodoxy and chose to restrict access to the law to curb the rise in the range of mass disputes and daily disputes. Wrongly thinking that the restriction of the judge's scope of intervention will eliminate disputes, this policy opens the way to private interests, which are in essence contrary to what Republican justice demands, which must be accessible everywhere and for all, according to the principles inherited from the French Revolution. Instead of strengthening the judicial authority, you want to entrust the Family Allowance Fund with issuing enforceable orders for the modification of maintenance. Instead of remedying the lack of conciliator positions, which are essential to mediation and conciliation activities, the draft law develops alternative forms of online settlement and enshrines the opening of a dispute settlement market. While diversion may be appropriate in a few situations, it can under no circumstances be for the benefit of private operators. This delegation to online services will result in an increase in user costs and a lucrative appropriation of the public service by a few companies. Above all, it will create insurmountable barriers for the less affluent of our fellow citizens, since, as we know, dematerialization amplifies the inequalities linked not only to the mastery of writing but also to access to the digital tool. However, the digital divide is not only linked to the presence of infrastructure in the housing territory, it is also a fracture of use whose effects vary by social class and age and are aggravated in the case of disability or illiteracy. The creation of a national court of orders to pay, which will entrust to five magistrates the task of processing the 500,000 annual orders to pay, is just as symptomatic of government logic. Under the guise of simplification, it is a matter of responding to repeated requests from credit institutions, banks or other insurance companies, which already account for almost 80% of the demand for payment orders. In the long run, such a mechanism will favour institutional creditors, who will dominate the system because they will have the means to do so, when our modest citizens will be denied access to the law orally, as is the case in the courts of appeal. In short, we are at the heart of this bill, which has no other purpose but to put an end to local justice. Indeed, a genuine local justice system involves the maintenance of the courts of appeal as an autonomous court, in order to guarantee its role as social mediator. Magistrates are specialized in listening and direct exchange with a public in a precarious social, economic or psychological situation. This popular justice must be preserved and even consolidated at all costs. It should be noted that the court of instance, anchored in the French territory, is perfectly identified by the litigants and easy to access. In addition, the courts of appeal are the only ones that manage to reduce the stock of their pending cases, despite the shortage of staff and the technicality of the cases dealt with. The mutualisation of disputes within the IMTs can therefore only lead to a deterioration in the processing times for cases currently under the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and to a more complex access to the judge for our fellow citizens. Ultimately, as I said, this reform is not up to the stakes. The interest of the justiciable and, moreover, the general interest now requires a genuine catch-up plan for justice, in terms of human and material resources. Your reform, Madam Keeper of the Seals, is far from meeting our challenges. In practice, it restricts equality before the law and impedes access to the law and the judge, with only budgetary rigour. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] That is why the Communist deputies will be in tune with the professionals of the world of justice, in their various components. We will do everything possible to improve a project whose trajectory remains, on the bottom, very negative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u51	Justice is gagged!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u52	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u53	At a time when our country's democratic benchmarks are weakened, in order to make our discussions on these texts of various adjustments to judicial organization and justice useful, we must, I believe, question the democratic meaning of the law. Democracy is not limited to the direct expression of the people or to the solitary expression of their representatives. It is the law that must guarantee the balance between powers. The text that you are presenting to us today, Madam Keeper of the Seals, is a set of measures whose purpose we have understood well: to try to do more with little – 66 euros per inhabitant, far from the 122 euros of our German neighbours, in 2016. I feel uncomfortable that what you call "justice reform" is in fact only the result of a financial logic which considers that all the tasks of the State are worth, that they all contain reserves in terms of productivity improvement and must all be subject to the managerial imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u55	In this case, however, individual freedoms, access to justice and respect for the rights of the defence are the limits that we place on the modernization of the State. But, as in other areas, the speed with which we weaken the democratic foundations of the State does not allow us to assess the deep ravages that this causes. On the form, we see once again a desire to weaken the parliamentary debate – urgent procedure, deadlines for examination, recourse to orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u56	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u57	On the substance, and I will come back to it at length, we also see a willingness to violate the rights of the defence in order to justify the effectiveness of court decisions. On the one hand, it is a question of dematerializing the proceedings and of using the video-hearing blindly to remedy the time, considered too long, of justice and, on the other hand, of replacing sitting jurors with judges in departmental criminal courts. Finally, it is a matter of giving powers to officials whose decision will be binding. Democratic control is slowly disappearing. Let's be careful! Fundamental freedoms are the guarantee of our institutions. The rights of the defence are receding in comparison with those of the prosecution. The strengthening of the prosecutor's powers poses a threat to litigants, up to the reversal of criminal proceedings in favour of the prosecution, in particular through the increased use of special investigative techniques – sounding, capturing images, collecting technical data for connecting and capturing computer data. Under the guise of simplification, the use of these techniques, now reserved for the fight against organised crime, is thus extended to ordinary crimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u59	Worse still, where an independent administrative authority, such as the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques – CNCTR – controls the use of these techniques in the context of the fight against terrorism or the violation of the fundamental rights of the Nation, tomorrow no such control will be exercised for ordinary crimes. Would we like to generalize a procedure initially designed to combat terrorism, which we would not do otherwise. Obviously, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and with all the respect I have for these institutions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u60	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u61	...the great winners of your reform will be the police and prosecutors, to the detriment of those in charge of ensuring the balance between necessary prosecution and indispensable defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u63	[[Mr Ugo Bernalicis and Mr Jean Lassalle applaud]] In a remarkable formula, very relevant today, Montesquieu reminded us: "One thing is not fair because it is law; But it must be law because it is right. » Your law is not fair, minister. It's not for the French. She's taking them away from justice. It removes them from their rights as it weakens their defence. How can we imagine that digital can be the infallible resort to the problems of our time? People furthest from their rights will be asked, often also the farthest from digital – by culture, or because in many territories the coverage is poor, if not very bad – to regulate everything by digital means. The digital exclusion of some of our fellow citizens, computer bugs and the complexity of certain statements raise legitimate questions about access to justice and understanding of how it works. The abolition of the trial courts has made one of my constituents say that there is no more justice, since there is no more court in our city. After trying to convince him, I hear him coming back to tell me that there is no more justice, since there is no more judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u65	I think I'll find it hard to convince him that the judge is hiding behind the screen of his computer – if he has one, of course. We will also need to be extremely vigilant about the dematerialization of justice services. This is the question of online legal services, of control over mediation platforms for example, or of access to data, of its preservation, because the IT security of this dehumanized digital society, symbol of human progress, is a matter of concern to our fellow citizens – rightly. Your reform is not fair to the territories, whose representatives will be gathered tomorrow at the Mayors' Fair. Territorial inequalities will be increased with these bills, which do not respond to the necessary proximity between the litigants and the courts. At a time when the issue of daily travel worries our fellow citizens, especially in rural areas, the specialization of courts of general jurisdiction and courts of appeal raises questions for justice professionals and litigants about the physical removal of the courts. The limits placed by the Government on the removal of persons from places of justice were further restricted in committee. The creation of a single judge specializing in the compensation of victims of terrorist acts, who will sit at the Paris High Court, is a new example of a centralization that will make it much more difficult for victims to access reparation. Victims' associations would have preferred regional hubs. Similarly, the dematerialization of a number of procedures, such as payment orders, will inevitably have adverse effects. Your reform, Madam Minister, is also unfair with regard to the judicial organisation which, it is true, has emerged since Bercy. The future of our country's judicial map cannot be without the advice of elected officials and defence professionals. You leave it to the heads of courts to draw the future of our territories in terms of access to justice, as it has been left to the regional health agencies to close a maternity or community hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u66	They're shutting down one after another!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u67	For several months, Madam Minister, you have tried to reassure local elected officials, lawyers and litigants, saying that, far from the brutality of your predecessors, you would not close any places of justice. But you added – and you repeat it today – that we also need to improve our organization. In other words, you will not close them, but others will take care of them in your place. You also give directions to follow, out of fatality, convinced of the existence of a natural evolution to which we can hardly escape. Unfortunately, we know this from experience: if we open the field of possibilities in this area, the results will not end up exceeding the original objectives, with the result that our fellow citizens will be taken away from justice. The first is the administrative merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance, with the possibility for the heads of courts to adapt the organization of the courts of instance into new specialized chambers called courts of instance. The second is the creation of centres of competence in the main courts of the departments where there are several. Here, too, the heads of courts will have the hand to assign specialized litigation to a court. The third track, which is even more worrying, aims to experiment in five regions with several appeal courts, one of which carries out animation and coordination functions, as well as the specialization of litigation. An experiment of this magnitude is tantamount to a generalization, especially since your text does not impose any conditions relating to the volumetricity and technicality of cases, leaving to fear all possible interpretations. The organic bill, finally, is unfair in judicial matters and in relation to the meaning of the sentence, with the creation of the departmental criminal court. The assize court is over for some of the most serious crimes against society, crimes lasting fifteen years or twenty years in prison. Why come to this? The most serious attacks on our society are no longer judged as they should. The fault lies not only in the congestion of the assize courts, which we still do not plan to allocate more resources to fulfil their missions, but also in the possible self-censorship of the investigating judges, who would prefer to see these crimes tried more quickly, which became crimes, by a correctional court. In the name of an ever sought-after efficiency, citizens are excluded from the courts, returning to a so-called "modern" criminal justice, set up during the French Revolution, with a departmental criminal court, selected magistrates and a criminal jury composed of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u68	The new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u69	What was an innovation yesterday became a democratic regression.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u71	Admit, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that we lose ourselves a little! [[Mr Ugo Bernalicis and Mr Jean Lassalle applaud]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that the notion of justice is being reversed through what is being presented to us as a reform. You will not be surprised, therefore, that this text does not receive my consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u72	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u73	It is a dense text – more than 57 articles – which is now being considered by the National Assembly, after having been adopted at first reading by the Senate after a substantial rewriting work, and is the subject of a wide debate before our Assembly, in committee: for thirty-three hours, 979 amendments were considered, of which 345 were adopted, and this, Madam Minister, in your constant presence, is a testament to your concern to establish with national representation a direct and reasoned debate. It is also a project from the consultation that you wanted to present to Parliament. I would like once again to welcome your method of appreciating, over the duration and as close as possible to the ground, the stakes of this reform, thanks to the five judicial projects opened in October 2017 and whose conclusions were presented on 15 January last, and thanks to the many exchanges and trips that you have made, Madam Keeper of the Seals, in order to arrive at a text shaped and not formatted. It is a law that gives visibility to the actors and to our citizens in that it already provides – it is a law of programming – the budgets that will be allocated to justice for the next four years. In doing so, it reassures itself of the ambition of this Government, which makes the choice, in a period of budgetary constraint, to increase in 2019, as was already the case in 2018, and to continue to increase until 2022 the budget of this Regalian ministry so that France leaves the shameful place it has occupied for too long in the ranking of national budgets dedicated to justice. It is also a comprehensive law which is submitted to Parliament with sections dedicated both to the territorial organisation, to civil procedure or to criminal procedure, with, for the latter, the urgent need to strike a balance between our citizens' growing need for security and our country's constant demand for the protection of individual freedoms. On the criminal front, it is a simplification law in that it restores the actual investigative time to the OPJs by unloading them from unnecessary and time-consuming formalities or by allowing them to delegate certain acts of prosecution better. In the same vein, in order to deal with a more and better organised and protective crime, provisions are aimed at harmonizing the conditions for the implementation of investigative means in the light of the various investigative frameworks, obviously in compliance with the rules protecting the freedoms and rights of the defence, under the supervision of the JLD, the judge of freedoms and detention, in preliminary investigation or flagrance or the investigating judge after the opening of an information. It is still a law of accessibility, thanks to the online complaint system, which will allow, for certain types of offences or personalities, to take the first difficult step of the revelation of facts more easily. However, this online complaint will not be exclusive and, for the most serious facts, will not replace the complainant's presence with an OPJ or even a judge. It is also an innovation law in that it will create, on an experimental basis, the criminal court. This experiment is criticized by those attached to the trial of crimes by the Assize Court and its popular jury. However, it provides a pragmatic response to the current congestion of the assize courts and its sometimes disastrous consequences in terms of delays for alleged innocent persons in pre-trial detention or for victims awaiting recognition and reparation. It is also a means of bringing to trial by a criminal court and no longer by a correctional court so-called corrective crimes such as rape or aggravated rape. Such practices, too often widespread, are, in some cases, tantamount to genuine denials of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u75	It is finally, without being exhaustive, a law of legibility in that it gives meaning to the penalty. Thus, unnecessary penalties such as imprisonment for less than one month will no longer be imposed; Penalties of less than one year will, as a matter of principle, be applied only outside the prison environment; those greater than one year will be actually executed. The 15,000 prison places that will be created or initiated by the end of the term of office, as well as the variety of prison conditions proposed, should be welcomed in order to better adapt to the profiles of prisoners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u76	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u77	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to welcome the work of the Committee on Laws, which, under the leadership of its chairman, has invested heavily in the issue of prisons over the past few months, which has enabled it to feed the debate usefully by having a number of amendments adopted directly from its work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Yes, the National Assembly, through extensive work in committee, has already contributed to the drafting of this text and will continue to shape it, as a matter of responsibility, throughout these debates. This is the ambition of the majority group of the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u78	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u79	We know that, for several years now, justice has not had the means it needs. The consequences are vacancies, outdated premises, often inadequate administration of justice, and overcrowded prisons. Justice is often criticized for being dehumanized, slow and complex. Court chiefs and court presidents are used, often during formal hearings, to criticizing the actions of successive governments. Reforming justice is therefore a necessity, and if several tests have not been conclusive, the text presented to us today proposes, in my view, interesting avenues. By dealing with both civil procedure, criminal procedure, administrative law, judicial organization and prison administration, it is quite innovative. It aims to simplify certain procedures and modernise justice through new technologies. Thus, the objectives and overall philosophy of the text appear to be satisfactory. I would like to highlight four points. First of all, with regard to prison overcrowding, which is an endemic disease, you propose both new ways and also a panel of differentiated institutions. I can only welcome this approach, which corresponds to the observation that I myself made with Jean-Marie Bockel, then Secretary of State for Prisons, a few years ago. It is also that of the Law Commission, which, under the leadership of its president, suggested a few months ago the creation of lightened detention structures, like what exists abroad under the term protein form of open prisons. In your project, you want to establish support structures for exit, the modalities of which may vary depending on their location. I very sincerely believe that this is the right direction, as I was able to see last week during a visit to Villejuif, with the Chair of the Law Committee, during which we were able to interact with practitioners. If I dared, where you propose fifteen centres for a staff of 2,000, I would suggest going up to twenty for nearly 3,000 inmates. The second point I would like to stress is the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance and the creation of separate or specialised chambers. I know you've explained yourself many times, but I wanted to share with you the concerns that this choice could create that could harm local justice. Rural areas, particularly the Lozère, are already suffering from medical desertification, the disappearance of public services, and difficulties of mobility. The local courts are now competent for everyday litigation. They are the demonstration that state justice is present for all. The merger of these courts seems to follow a management logic. It may be feared that it will be the basis for the disappearance of certain settlements. Can you assure me, Madam Minister, that this merger will not prevent the retention of a specific entity dedicated to trial judges, i.e. small disputes, in each department? Another question is administrative justice, which is often set aside in government projects. But it plays an important role in our country, which has long chosen to distinguish the judiciary from the administrative one. Contrary to a common idea, administrative justice is still slow, although the development of the interim measures can be welcomed. It takes another two or even three years for an administrative court to decide on a building permit, on an action for liability, or on the validity of a simple administrative act. It's way too much in a modern country. I note with satisfaction the use of mediation, honorary magistrates and legal assistants, as well as your proposals to improve the efficiency of administrative justice. In an amendment, I will propose a real link between the civil judiciary and the criminal justice system, thus giving the administrative judge real efficiency in his act of judging. Finally, let me draw your attention to divorce proceedings. I have noted your proposals on the conciliation hearing and the divorce subpoena. However, in the event of a divorce in dispute, a procedure which is less and less frequent, the party benefiting from interesting interim measures, after an order for non-conciliation, tends to increase the number of delaying dismissals in order to delay the divorce to the maximum extent possible. You, the minister, have a hand in civil proceedings, since this is a matter of a regulatory nature. I wanted to make you aware of this delicate issue and ask you to consider the possibility of limiting referral requests over time by encouraging the judges of the state to exercise greater discernment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u80	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u81	A survey published in 2017 revealed that 45% of French people did not trust justice. Without trust, justice will always be suspected of arbitrariness, which is not without problems, especially in a democracy. I see three main causes of this disaffection of the French for the judicial institution: its slowness, its organization and sometimes, not to say often, its laxity. Let us be very clear, on these three points, I fear that your text, Madam Minister, will only make matters worse. The slow pace of justice has its source first of all in its derisory means: France, a country of Saint Louis and human rights, is often pointed out for the weakness of the financial resources it puts at the service of justice. Of course, you are presenting in Article 1e r programming for the years to come, but on the one hand, the expected increase is very, too small and, on the other hand, we have known since last Monday that you are not complying with your own programming laws. Justice must be a budgetary priority and an increase in its resources will have a direct impact on crime and thus on the budget allocated to the Security Mission. Of course, this will be all the more true if this is accompanied by a policy of firmness. Another cause of slowness is the functioning of the courts. The congestion of the courts is a sad reality, especially in criminal matters. Your proposal to create criminal courts seems interesting to us, but it is sinning on two points: the absence of the people in these bodies and the limitation of the crimes that can be tried there. We propose that this court, renamed the Assize Court, become the first instance jurisdiction for all crimes, the Assize Court judging on appeal. These courts would be composed of three magistrates and four appointed assessors, not drawn by lot, like the composition of the children's courts. Thus, all crimes would be tried in the same way, and the people, in whose name, I remind them, justice is done, would have their full place. This is a very concrete proposal to reduce the congestion of our jurisdictions. It will also have the effect of combating the correction of crimes. This phenomenon, however illegal, is very serious and scandalous, rightly, our compatriots. With the assize courts, it will no longer be necessary to conceal certain aggravating circumstances or to mitigate the gravity of the facts: a crime will be tried for what it is! We owe it to the victims and society. As far as the organization is concerned, unlike your "metropolistic" vision, we want local and deep-rooted justice. Thus, we propose, for example, to strengthen the role of the trial courts, in particular by raising the ceiling of jurisdiction. Another subject that undermines the confidence of our compatriots in the judicial institution, laxism. I no longer count the extremely serious facts for which the sentences imposed are derisory. In this respect, you are clearly putting your steps in those of your predecessor. Mrs. Taubira left Vendôme Square, but not her ideas. Your policy, even more assertive, of "all but prison" is clearly a victory for offenders of all kinds. On the contrary, we believe that there is a need to restore real meaning to the pain. This must go through real life, the return of the floor sentences, the suspension that must return to its original meaning – any stay must be revoked and turned into a closed prison once a new sentence comes in – the end of automatic reductions of sentence or the expulsion of foreign offenders. This last step would, in particular, allow us to empty our prisons – it falls well, we need room. As far as prisons are concerned, we propose the establishment of new prisons to accommodate primary offenders. Short sentences – because yes, we think they are useful – could be served by being protected from promiscuity with crime professionals. It would be a way to stop the spiral of prison as a crime school. A relatively simple development – no need for very high-security centres – of unused state buildings could be launched quickly. Finally, while there are still many things to say, two issues are extremely important to restore confidence in justice: strengthening the secrecy of investigation and investigation. We propose to prohibit any dissemination of information covered by this secret.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u82	It smells like it's been through!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u83	This ban would be valid for everyone. We also want to extend the duty of political neutrality of magistrates to their unions in order to avoid an episode such as that of the "wall of cons" whose impact on the French was, as you know, catastrophic. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] As you will have understood, during this debate we will defend measures, many of which are diametrically opposed to those envisaged in your text, but which, we believe, will make justice more effective, strengthen its impartiality and restore its mission: the service of the common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u84	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u85	This text carries with it the ambition of our policy. Far from ideological postures, he has found his way, on a line of balance: his objective is to simplify civil and criminal procedures for a greater speed of justice, for the benefit of our fellow citizens. With an increase in its budget of 25 per cent on the quinquennium, the French justice system must emerge from its great poverty, make up for its delays and finally project itself into the 21st digital century. Among all the ambitions of this text, I shall retain two. The first concerns the 800,000 major protected. Mrs Caron-Déglise, General Counsel at the Court of Cassation, recently proposed to you, Madam Keeper of Seals, developments in the legal protection of persons. To use an expression used in his report, the era is no longer the "civil death" of the protected majors, who can no longer participate in society. The protection of their interests can no longer be achieved at the sacrifice of their fundamental rights: marriage, PACS, divorce, access to care, right to vote, inheritance rights are all rights that require the combined intervention of the judge and the guardian, which delays the exercise of rights over time, thereby undermining their effectiveness. It was in committee that we, the Government and the majority, were able to introduce these rights in section 8, which the Senate had refused to do. By virtue of the principles of necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality, they can no longer be withdrawn from the protected majors. From now on, the protection of the best and best interests of the vulnerable person is replaced by respect for their choices and preferences. This was the wish of the Defender of Rights in his report of September 2016; That is what our international commitments required. This progress is therefore a source of great pride for the Republic en Marche group. In return, the person in charge of the protection measure is given a stronger role. In the course of the discussions, we will be particularly careful to maintain this balance. The second ambition I wanted to highlight is to restore meaning to grief. Recidivism rates still as high, electric prison climate, prisons full of cracks: victims, law enforcement and, more generally, French society despair of the execution of sentences. Past criminal policies have remained powerless. Why? On the one hand, the penalty has lost in legibility, immediacy and effectiveness, thus losing its deterrent force. On the other hand, prisons are not in a state of massive reintegration. Sense of grief and the role of prison are two lungs that are running out of breath, and we want to give them some fresh air. Above all, prison must no longer be the shame of the Republic. Our prison staff deserve to be placed in decent working conditions. Bringing back meaning to grief is strengthening its deterrent force. When sentenced to more than one year's imprisonment, the convicted person will no longer be eligible for an adjustment of sentence. When the prison sentence is between six months and one year, the court will choose between the electronic bracelet and the detention, depending on the nature of the offence and the personality of the offender. As for prison sentences of less than a month, which are desocializing without being dissuasive or punitive – as is well known – they will simply be prohibited. I come to the budgetary ambition of this programming plan. We give you the means, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to launch construction sites for 15,000 prison places, of which 7,000 will be delivered by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u86	What's the point? It's a promise for the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u87	It is essential to enhance the safety of establishments whose dangerousness has been demonstrated by their occupants, in order to avoid escapes and to ensure the safety of staff. At the same time, you are proposing to create support institutions for exit, which aim, through a multidisciplinary and inclusive approach, to bring all inmates to activity, autonomy and responsibility. It is equally essential to put an end to dry exits, which are, as we know, conducive to recidivism. The establishment of trusted areas in prisons continues to pursue the same ambition, as well as the construction of two experimental, labour-oriented prisons. We fully support this balanced prison plan. We will pay attention to the prison architecture, which plays a decisive role, as we have noted during our numerous visits. The form and capacity of prisons must adapt to their function. We will never insist enough on the need to keep them human in size and shape. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to thank you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteurs, for the quality of the debates in committee. This bill waited a few months before it was found a niche; Now it is only waiting to be debated and voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u88	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u89	First of all, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for all the comments you have made. Perhaps it is because I am completely immersed in this text, but I have found a great deal of interest in each of your interventions, whether they make me react, either positively or negatively, or whether they call me. I want to tell you, Mr Terlier, how much I share your analysis, especially when you say that justice in the 21st century cannot remain at the margins of the evolution of society. I am not developing further, because I would like to answer you on one particular point: the Ordinance of 1945 on juvenile delinquency. I have heard your call for a recast of this text. I know that the Law Commission has begun to reflect on this and that the Senate is also considering this issue at this very moment. It was very difficult for me to deal with this subject, which is very important in its volume, in the context of this bill, which is already dealing with many aspects, as you have pointed out. At any rate, I would like to assure you of the Government's willingness to act and assume its responsibilities in this area. We have been working on this issue with several of you for several months, because we believe it is essential to provide clear and effective answers in this area: it is necessary, on the one hand, that minors be tried more quickly and, on the other hand, that a more prompt response be given to the victims. You have said that you fear, Mr President, that the parliamentary timetable will not allow this reform to be completed in a short time. I understand your fears, of course, but I can assure you of the Government's willingness to make clear progress in this direction. Nothing in your remarks, Mr Masson, or in those of any of the Members who spoke, leads me to be angry. To sum up your speech, you have indicated your agreement on simplification measures, but you have raised two problems, one relating to the budget and the other concerning the possible removal of justice, which you feared would become less human. With regard to the figures you have mentioned, I would like to point out that we must compare what is comparable. The justice budget accounts for approximately 3.2 per cent of the general government budget expenditure, excluding reimbursement and rebates. In 2019, it will grow by 4.5%, compared to 0.8% for all other government departments. It is therefore, as we can see, a priority budget. I wanted to remind him. You have also expressed the fear that justice will move away from the justiciable, including the possible abolition of the 300 local courts, grievances or concerns raised by many of you. I will only say a word about this, to remind you that none of these local courts will close. If I say so with such assurance, it is because their powers will be guaranteed by a decree in the Council of State. In other words, they will only be able to benefit from an extension of their powers, possibly decided by the Chief of the Court of Appeal. Without calling into question my own will in this matter, Mr. Member, you have referred to "a determinism that escapes us". I don't think that's the case. As I have had the opportunity to say in this House, I, for my part, strongly believe in political voluntarism, and nothing will escape us in this regard. Finally, you considered that the departmental criminal court – which your fellow deputies have turned into a "departmental criminal court" into a commission of laws – was done to move faster and achieve savings, which would ultimately lead to the correction of crimes punishable by 15 to 20 years' imprisonment. However, it is the opposite, Mr Member: it is because these criminal courts, experienced in some departments, will work with professional magistrates that the procedure will be faster – which will in no way prevent the hearing of victims or witnesses – and that it will really allow us to judge as such crimes that were previously de-qualified, corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u90	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u91	So what's going to happen is the opposite of what you're afraid of. I'm sure you'll agree very quickly. Thank you, Mr Balanant, for all your comments. I do not repeat our points of agreement on budgetary programming or penalties; I only come back to the two points of vigilance that you mentioned. With regard to the possibility for family allowance funds to review the amount of maintenance payments, you would like the appeal against these decisions to be suspensive. I would like to make it clear that we are going to move forward favourably on this point, in line with your request. So we may still have a point of disagreement about video conferencing. I respect your point of view and I understand your fears. However, as you know, the courts are faced with the difficulty of securing the extraction of prisoners. That is why we wish, in some cases, to be able to use video conferencing. In fact, it is a matter for us to avoid unjustified release when such extractions cannot take place. This is therefore a very important support. In addition, we have taken into account a number of the grievances raised. As you know, the use of video conferencing will no longer be possible during initial pre-trial detention, if the person refuses to do so. We will have to discuss this issue in the coming days. You have indicated, Mrs Untermaier, that you shared "the founding principles of this text", while issuing "severe criticisms" of the implementation of the provisions that we intend to take. I hear and of course respect these criticisms. However, it seems to me that we are already responding to a number of them, by the very content of the measures we are proposing. You first ordered me to "ensure the human presental." However, we fully agree on this point. Of course, "there is no love, there is only evidence of love," and statements are not enough. When we want to maintain the courts of proximity or increase the presence of clerks trained in the single reception services of the litigant, it seems to me that we ensure the presence of the human, and I very much value it. You then expressed concerns about the balance between the effectiveness of investigations, which we intend to improve by all the measures we are going to take, and the guarantee of rights. We will have the opportunity to come back to this during the debate, but I think I can demonstrate to you – at least, I hope – that we have scrupulously ensured that this balance is maintained, in all cases, by providing for the presence of magistrates, whether it be powers of authorisation or powers of control. Finally, you have noted a "hiatus between the envisaged criminal policy and the staff of clerks as well as integration and probation advisers". Here again, I hear your preventions, and this is a crucial alert point for me, but the policy that we want to pursue will, of course, be deployed with the state personnel, with the prison services of integration and probation, with the clerks, but also – we must not deny their role – with the associations on which we rely. This morning, the rapporteur and I visited an association which takes charge of work of general interest and plays an important role. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u92	We will talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u93	There is still one point on which you have already alerted me in committee: restorative justice. I do not know if you have tabled any amendments on this subject, but know that we really want to develop these processes. It's an essential thing for me. I have met prison integration and probation counsellors – CPIP – who are already putting them in place. The judicial protection of young people – PJJ – also carries out work in this direction. Mr Zumkeller drew my attention to the psychological follow-up of minors with regard to the enforcement of sentences. Many of you are interested in this topic on which he has worked. I'll have a chance to get back. Mrs Buzyn and I are working together on this important issue. Mr Bernalicis, it is not the thirty-second Minister of Justice who answers you, but the sixth. The Commission cannot agree with all your proposals, although it shares some of your findings. When you say that prison cannot be the alpha and omega of policy led by the seal guards, I agree with you. However, the usefulness of the prison sentence should not be denied when, as you say, it punishes offences or offenders for whom it is a useful and effective response. You see, I can share some of your proposals. There are others, on the other hand, to which I cannot subscribe. "We have given ever more exorbitant powers to a structurally non-independent magistrate," you say. I imagine you're referring to the D.A.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u94	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm sorry, but the prosecutor is a magistrate. I insist on what the judicial authority is. As a magistrate, the prosecutor is autonomous, he decides on the appropriateness of the prosecution – as you know very well – and I do not issue any individual investigation to him. Moreover, it is the guarantor of individual freedoms. Finally – I could go back to a lot of things you mentioned – you say that if you were Minister of Justice, you would re-establish more than 300 local courts. On that day, there will be 600 local courts: the 300 that exist and that I, the sixth minister of women's justice, will have left and the 300 that you will re-establish. Why not? But we'll have to finance them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u96	We know where to find the money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u97	You say that in order to fill the technological gap, you must first give equipment to the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u98	It's planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u99	That's a good thing: that's another point of agreement between us. 4000 ultraportables have recently been distributed; 3500 more will be in 2018. This equipment will really help the magistrates who, I grant you, are waiting for them. We also have a program to densify flows in courts and courts of appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u100	I could be a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u101	But certainly, there is no doubt about that. One more effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u102	We're working on it! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u103	It seems to me that we really have answers to the arguments that you are making. You want Parliament to validate the criminal policy directives. That is not the conception we have of the French prosecutor's office, Mr. I have told you, on the contrary, that the Government should be accountable to Parliament and that, through the hierarchy of prosecutors, it should give general instructions. That's an important point. You see, MP, you still have a very small effort to make before you become a seal keeper.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u104	One or two more years of law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u105	Mr Little, you have claimed that the reform was neither built with the professionals nor planned for the justiciable. I will not repeat all the arguments that I have already put forward before you, but the first point does not seem correct to me. For the past year, we've been talking to professionals all the time. If we have not reached agreement on all the issues, I agree with you, at least with some of them, we have always pursued this dialogue. As for the second point, I believe that the reform is built for the justiciable and I hope that its application will demonstrate this to you. I'm sure at the time of his assessment, you'll know how to agree. It is a project, you say, that aims to reduce costs. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, If so, why would I benefit from a 25% budget increase until 2022? My goal is to deliver justice of proximity, justice of quality, justice of efficiency. You mentioned the Seine-Saint-Denis, where the situation is extremely delicate. The Ministry of Justice wants to take into consideration the territories as they are, as they function, with their social, economic and demographic difficulties and characteristics. In Seine-Saint-Denis, I increased the number. You know that, since I have already told you in committee. Between 2017 and 2018, those of the magistrates of the seat rose from 131 to 137, those of the magistrates of the prosecution from 53 to 55, and we will continue this momentum. Children's judges are now fifteen. I do not claim that this staff is sufficient to cover all the difficulties. I am extremely attentive to the situation of the Bobigny Court; I will soon meet with the heads of the courts to discuss with them the unique situation of this court. Moreover, my attention, far from focusing on Bobigny, is focused on all the territories on which justice must truly show its presence, often in connection with the forces of the interior and with the Ministry of National Education. We need to work together on educational, security and justice issues. This is what we do, for example, in the so-called "reconquest republican" neighbourhoods, where we provide sustained support for particular situations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr President, you say that care must be taken not to put an end to the local justice system, which acts as a social mediator. Here too, I am in full agreement with you. Yes, the local judge is a social mediator. I see that when I go to court. The judges are here. They welcome those who come to them to submit a problem that they do not know how to formulate legally. That's why we're here. The clerks, in the single reception services of the defendant – SAUJ – or the judges are there for that. This service, far from destroying it, we will maintain it. Mr. Clement, I thought you were harsh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u106	He was less so when he was in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u107	You say that my bill is not fair to people or to territories. I don't agree. In your opinion, this text would take the people away from their rights because they would be asked to deal with everything digitally. That's not true. I said earlier and I repeat: digital is a powerful asset that will improve our procedures and speed up certain treatments, but it will not replace physical reception. For example, we will digitize criminal proceedings. When an investigator receives a complaint at the police station, it is absurd that the clerk of the court should retread it under another software. It's a waste of time for everyone. It goes without saying that it is necessary to digitize, but the person who files a complaint at the police station will necessarily find someone to welcome him. There is no question of affecting this obligation under the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u108	She's not insured anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u109	Don't say the other way around. If there are malfunctions, they are punctual and do not fall under the law. You said that the bill was not fair to the territory and that it was helping to keep the courts away from the litigants. Look what's happening in your department. In Poitiers, there is an appellate court, a high-level court and a high-level court, as there is a trial court in Châtellerault. All of this is going to stay as it is. The name will change, as well as the internal organization, but the places will remain and the reception will always be assured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u110	What is the meaning of reform, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u111	There will be no physical removal, no judicial desertification. You cited the example of the judge for the compensation of victims of terrorist acts, the JIVAT. In the present case, it is not a matter of moving away from the court, but of speeding up the treatment of compensation. How many victims who filed an appeal are waiting for a faster solution? We want to give them satisfaction. That's what we do. So I register falsely against what you said. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] One more word: I don't draw a judicial card. I refute that term. I'm putting in place a method that starts from the territories. How can you, who belong to the Libertés et territoires group, claim the opposite?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u112	He's become lucid! He opened his eyes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u113	Mr Mazars, I would like to thank you for your comments. You welcomed a law of balance, accessibility, clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u114	Here's a good godillot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u115	I thank you, above all, for what you and your colleagues have brought to the text, which has evolved favorably thanks to your comments. Mr. Morel - To the Hussier, I'm looking for you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u116	He was at our house... He's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u117	[[Smile]] There are things that are evolving... You announced that you would be paying attention to four points and, in the first place, prison overcrowding. Thank you for your comments in this regard. I am delighted that you have been able to visit the centre of Villejuif, which is emblematic of what we want to do. Given the merger of IT and IMTs, you are concerned that some sites will disappear. I reiterate here that this will not be the case. You asked me to commit to maintaining a specific entity related to the trial judge. I assure you that through the new protection litigation judge, the new name of the trial judge, who will be responsible for housing leases, consumer credits, guardianship and over-indebtedness, daily litigation will continue to be judged in extreme proximity in the current courts of proceedings by specific entities. Finally, on the slow pace of administrative justice and on divorce proceedings, the debate will lead us to consider your proposals. Ms. Le Pen, you feel that the bill will make justice more slow, given, you say, the derisory means that we devote to it and the congestion of the courts. On the contrary, I believe – this view separates us – that the 25% increase in the budget that I can post in the programming law, in addition to the procedural reforms, will greatly help to reduce the congestion of the courts and to refocus the judges on their core business. That's what we've been looking for and that's what we want. As for the accusation of laxity that you are making, honourable Member, I do not believe that we can hear it when there are 700,000 people in detention, including nearly 900 minors. You see things through a wrong prism. On the contrary, it seems to me that the reforms that I am carrying out are aimed at making sentences more effective, in other words, that when a sentence is handed down, it is actually carried out. It's a commitment I made. The textual changes we make will have to contribute to this. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Abadie, you mentioned three crucial issues: the majors under guardianship, the pain and the budgetary ambition. I thank you, above all, for recalling here the first of these issues, which has been linked to dignity. This reform, which we have carried out together, will greatly change the rights of all our citizens. It seems to me that we can be proud of these guardianship measures, as, ladies and gentlemen, you can be proud of all the measures contained in the bill if you pass this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u118	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u119	My point of order is based on Rule 58(1) and concerns the proper conduct of our debates. I have just learned, a few minutes ago – well after the opening of the debates, which started at 16.00 – that some 15 of our amendments were considered inadmissible: we are again facing intolerable conditions for discussion. On the merits, only part of these amendments had been found inadmissible before the committee's consideration. We sent e-mails to the administrators of the Law and Session Committee to ask what alternative wording would be used to defend these amendments and to know the reasons for the inadmissibility that had been opposed to us. To date, no response has been received. [["He's right! » on the benches of the GDR group]] These include amendments on, for example, the baremization of compensation for work-related crimes, the public deliberations of the Constitutional Council, the presumption of non-consentation of minors under 13 years of age, the placement under mobile electronic surveillance of a person charged with an offence relating to violence or threats against his spouse or partner, the strengthening of the fight against white-collar delinquency, the legalization of cannabis, as opposed to the lump sum fine – the latter amendment had been found admissible in the committee of laws – the contravention of the solidarity aid – since it cannot be decriminalised completely, as the law currently stands – the definition of the state of necessity, for food theft – I do not see how this would be further from the text than, for example, the lump sum fine for narcotic drugs – the amnesty of our trade union comrades who have fought well and do not deserve such criminalization, and the fine and conviction of transnational companies giving orders in cases, in particular, of war crimes or crimes against humanity. These are examples of amendments that have been found inadmissible. I believe that this text as a whole is a legislative horseman, and I do not see in the name of which we are refused to defend these amendments and political positions in favour of another idea of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u120	Mr President, allow me to give you a few points of answer which have been forwarded to me by the sitting. Article 45 of the Constitution requires that the amendments be linked, even indirectly...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u121	Even indirect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u122	...with the text filed. This requirement is reflected in our Rules of Procedure in Rule 98(5), which makes it possible to declare amendments inadmissible for this reason. In this case, the Law Committee had, in examining this text, declared inadmissible amendments to the substance of certain codes. The same position therefore applies in the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u123	But with differences between the committee and the sitting!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u124	These are the formal and regulatory elements that I can give to your reflection, Mr. I am not judging the merits, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u125	Sometimes it's variable geometry!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u126	This is the first time it's been so demanding!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u127	It is amazing to learn these inadmissibilitys at twenty-three o'clock!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u128	Thank you, Congressman. I think the question has been decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u129	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the 2019-2022 programming and justice reform bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u130	Mr Dino Cinieri, the first speaker on the item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u131	Minister, you said, "Justice needs to strengthen and adapt. Until then, we agree with you. What our fellow citizens are telling us on the ground – this is the case, for example, in my constituency – is that they want the sentences imposed to be applied, that the work of police officers and gendarmes is not in vain. Our fellow citizens no longer want to read in the press that a multi-recidivist has been released for good conduct and only three days after his release, he has again taken action. There are approximately 71000 inmates with a capacity of less than 60000 places. You promised the creation of 15,000 prison places during the presidential campaign: where are they? The 7,000 seats provided for in this five-year programming bill are insufficient, and you know that. Let us take the example of the prison of La Talaudière, in the department of the Loire, on which I alerted you many times without any return on your part: it houses 420 nuts for 280 theoretical places. Minister, prison staff can't do it anymore. What are you doing to resolve the issue of prison overcrowding without sending a catastrophic signal to offenders and criminals? Indeed, alternatives to incarceration will not strengthen the effectiveness of sentences: it is nonsense. What are you doing to improve the working conditions of prison guards? When are you going to increase the number of supervisors, especially at night and on weekends? Just as you do not listen to the French and the yellow vests, you do not listen to the anger of the judicial world against this bill. Your text is not up to the challenges and challenges for justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u133	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u134	Week after week, text after text, the same scenario repeats again and again, with a few too few exceptions. Where the Senate and the opposition propose, the Government and the majority impose, and this illustrates, in the end, your interest in the legislative process. You alone are right, but often against everyone and at the expense of the general interest. But let's go back to the text. Where you follow an accounting logic, looking for small savings to the detriment of the true ambition of justice for all, the Senate has proposed a budget path that is commensurate with the immense needs. Where you question the balance of criminal procedure by giving new, sometimes disproportionate, prerogatives to the prosecutor, to the detriment of the investigating judge, the Senate has opposed you the necessary guarantee of freedoms and the control of the judge. Where you register in the straight line of the Taubira era, with increased alternatives to prison, in order to avoid having to reach the presidential objective of building places, the Senate has opted, in responsibility, for a criminal rearmament necessary in the face of the crisis of authority. Where you keep our compatriots away from access to justice by foreshadowing the disappearance of the trial courts, the Senate has clarified the reform of the first instance by ensuring territorial networking and proximity to the judicial institution. There, finally, where you do not speak to the victims, the Senate proposes operational and concrete measures to strengthen their rights. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] No, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this text is not a revolution, let alone an evolution of our judicial system, but rather a regression. But, as usual, you will not listen to anyone and will not hear, like what happened this weekend throughout France, this anger rising against a policy that is not up to the stakes. Unfortunately, this text is a new illustration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u135	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u136	We must have the means to achieve our ambitions. In the area of justice, ambitions are important, and rightly so. But it must be noted that once again, in this area as in many others, the resources allocated by your budget are not up to the stakes. The payment appropriations for justice, which amount to 7 billion in 2018, up to 8.3 billion by 2022, are not sufficient. France is often pointed out for its weak financial commitment to justice, and is at the bottom of the rankings in Europe. In fact, it allocates a budget of €65 per inhabitant to justice, compared with €121 in Germany or €155 in the United Kingdom. Once again, the fine statements of the ministers and your majority do not stand the test of the facts. In addition, since the amending finance bill for 2018, the French know that you are not even complying with your budget programming commitments. According to a survey published in March 2017, 45% of French people do not trust justice. While the dysfunctions of our judicial system are not solely related to budgetary matters, the money remains the nerve of war, and your proposal to merge the courts of general jurisdiction and the courts of jurisdiction, as in Bethune, in my department, is not a solution to restore confidence and guarantee proximity. In response to the remarks made by those who raise the spectre of uncontrolled spending, we recall that it is quite possible to find money by tackling, for example, the cost of immigration, state medical aid – MEA – or France's contribution to the budget of the European Union, which is constantly increasing. Our country continues to face increasingly violent and multifaceted crime every day. This permanent and long-lasting threat requires a judicial response that is equally effective and puts an end to laxism. Fine words are one thing, but our compatriots are now waiting for strong deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u137	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u138	By your very admission, Madam Keeper of the Seals, if I believe the newspaper Le Monde, this reform is far from the expected judicial revolution, the expected budgetary effort – as we have said – the number of prison places needed, far from the upgrading of the working conditions of prison staff, the strengthening and fluidity necessary for the mission of lawyers, the efforts expected by the small people of the courts – clerks, administrative agents, the often unbearable working conditions and hours – far from the treatment and consideration due to the victims, the treatment that is necessary for the radicalised detainees and the expected impartiality of this institution. In short, this bill is at best a sub-project, a minor project of timid managers, at worst a text that will further remove the justiciable from justice and accentuate territorial divides. As your majority has too often been used to it, your answer lies in the uberization of justice: digitization is presented as a response to a growing and accelerated dehumanization of one of the pillars of our state. Perhaps this building had not yet been debunked enough: you are going to give it the last blows of a dowel that will finish it. What about the closure of the sites, with the abolition of the courts of first instance, or their merger with the courts of first instance? Again, territories already affected by desertification – whether cultural, educational, medical or transport – will be affected, as if you had not heard anything about last weekend's rumbling. In fact, it is a low cost justice that you are preparing for us, which does not in any way tackle the major stakes of this one. Throughout this debate, we will be eager to share with you our proposals for more impartial, fairer, closer, firmer justice, in total opposition to the Taubira philosophy that inspires you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u139	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u140	We are dealing with the first articles of these two texts, which are, we must admit, technical, pointed, and which, in my view, raise some essentially philosophical concerns. The first of these, which relates to the original articles of the bill, relates to the specialization of the courts. I would like you to tell us a little more about this, Madam seal keeper. Indeed, if I am not mistaken, you mean by specialization a response to a low volumetricity and a very high technical need of judges in the courts. I wondered, in working on these texts, about the reasons why you proposed the specialization of the sites, of the chambers, under the authority of their head. Other avenues would be possible, such as the possibility for specialized judges to travel to the courts to avoid one or the other specializing in a single area, a process that would keep litigants away from the competent court. The second concern that I will mention concerns the place that these texts leave for the justiciable. I listened carefully to the answers you gave to some of the colleagues who spoke before me. I would like to stress the importance of taking into account all the litigants. On the sensitive issues of mediation and the dematerialization of procedures, I think we really need to give consideration to those of our fellow citizens who do not have access to each other because of lack of technological means or even lack of knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u141	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u142	Since we are talking about justice, I would like to combat a particular injustice to the Government over the budget. The means, both human and material or real estate, reach an unprecedented level in the history of justice – more than 24% over five years, which is higher than what was achieved under the previous quinquennats. This unprecedented increase in appropriations, in the economic context we are experiencing and with the budgetary constraints imposed on us, reflects the priority we place on the work of justice. This additional 24% over five years represents 1.3 billion euros in additional resources to advance justice. The majority group welcomes this considerable effort. Of course, we could do even more. Why, in absolute terms, limit the increase to 30% and do not go up to 40, 50, 60, 70, or even 80%? In principle, this would be possible, but in practice, these measures would only be pure display – as is the case with the amendments concerned. This is not realistic, either because the promised posts cannot be opened on time or because prison places cannot be created on time, or because this increase does not follow the path of the public finance programming law, and this undermines the budgetary balance. The Government's proposal was perfectly consistent and realistic. It will create an additional 6,500 posts to improve working conditions and 15,000 prison places to relieve prison congestion. It plans to reform the penalties, which in the long run will free up places in prison, and invest heavily in digital technology in order to achieve savings. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This budget is in line with these objectives. I prefer, by far, an ambitious budget, which fulfils its commitments, to appear to be totally idealistic and unrealizable increases in appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u143	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u144	In order to be pleasant to you, I would like to refer to the supplementary rules on speaking time which have been granted to me as a member of the Rules of Procedure. I could have wielded the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u145	What article?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u146	Article 89 (6) provides that in the event of the inadmissibility of a bill or an amendment, the member who is the author of the bill may request a written explanation of the inadmissibility. We have done so, but we have still not received an answer – I am aiming at financial inadmissibility. As for the others, the legislator wished to retain in 2008 during the constitutional review the notion of indirect link between an amendment and the text to which it relates in order to open "the possibility for an assembly or the Government, at first reading, to modify or supplement the draft tabled or transmitted by any amendment which it seems appropriate to bring to the debate, or to over-frame the freedom of initiative of the legislator a priori". [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] In theory, this provision has been made to allow us to act as we have done, but you rely on a restrictive and infringing interpretation of the principles of democracy and parliamentary freedom to refuse to debate a number of amendments. This is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u147	We will probably address this issue in the Conference of Presidents. I therefore propose that we stay there for the time being. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u148	Mrs Moutchou is right on at least one point: this budget planning bill is part of a constrained budget. But you are at the root of this constraint, since you have chosen to propose a budget of austerity, to take to the most modest to give to the richest, pretending to revive the activity, what we still expect, to liberate the energies, which prefer tax havens, even Japan if we follow the example of our dear friend Carlos Ghosn, rather than increase the means when it is necessary. We have to make up for the backlog of years. It's not unrealistic. The increase in appropriations may be significant, but it is not commensurate with the needs. Above all, it follows the logic of previous years, during which successive increases have never made it possible to catch up, for lack of sufficient resources. The appropriations are so low that they will not even allow our country to reach the European average in 2022. Above all, where do you decide to put these means? Our right-wing and far-right colleagues regretted this themselves: in the construction of 15,000 prison places – 7,000 by 2022 and the 8,000 others, we don't know when. You choose once again, do not dislike Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, to make incarceration and confinement the red thread supposed to solve the problems of prison overcrowding. However, there is unanimous agreement among professionals and experts that the solution is not there. You will have to build new prison places, they will be filled, because the general doctrine of justice today makes the prison sentence the norm and alternatives the exception. That is the major problem of this bill. You are increasing the budget in vain in a constrained economic context, because the additional appropriations will serve an inefficient policy. Climbing prisons and prisons does not solve the problems of delinquency – and especially not financial crime. In doing so, you do not respond to the requests of the justice professionals, whom you certainly heard since they gathered a few days ago in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u149	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u150	Mrs Moutchou, making assumptions doesn't make it a reality. While you try to convince us, your assertions will not materialize if you are unable to support them. In truth, this programming bill is a waiver. However, the idea of your presidential candidate's departure – building 15,000 prison places during the quinquennium – seemed reasonable to us. Finally, you step back once again since you will build only 7000 of them, returning the remaining 8000 to the Greek calends. You make up an increase in the budget of justice behind figures that will not even suffice to finance these additional 7,000 prison places, and above all that will not allow the magistrates to give them the means they need. You are trying to mask the lack of ambition and means by altering the justice of proximity. You are organizing a supposedly technical merger between the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance, which will permanently keep our fellow citizens away from the places of justice in our territory. Republican France cannot accept this gradual and scheduled closure of places of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u151	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u152	You announce, which no one disputes, that you have "put the package" on prisons. Could you tell us what timetable France intends to upgrade the 36 detention centres that have given us a sentence of justice or the European Court of Human Rights? In addition, Mr. Gosselin, who knows the subject well for being elected local, asks whether the payment appropriations will indeed follow the credits recorded in theory, depending on the state of progress of the projects – the location of the prisons, the local urban plan revised and undisputed, the permit to build purged, the start of the works after call for tenders. Do we have the certainty that this announcement plan can be implemented?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u153	That's a real question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u154	Finally, out of 1300 new posts, 192 are for courts – 100 for magistrates' posts but only 92 for clerks' posts. However, 200 judicial posts are already entered in the budget but not filled, which raises the question of the attractiveness of this profession. Above all, you only open 92 clerk positions, while this is a key factor in reducing processing times and strengthening the responsiveness of justice. As for the judicial protection of young people, she is the poor parent of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u155	We come to the amendments. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1029.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u156	This amendment is consistent with the various amendments to Article 1 that I will propose. I'll be back in a few moments. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the conditions under which this text is to be examined. I have heard on several occasions this afternoon the excellent conditions under which this text was debated in committee for thirty-three hours. Thirty-three hours during which non-attached Members, like me, would have liked to debate this text, if they had not been present in the House to defend their amendments to the finance bill. Thirty-three hours of discussion, of course, but only 48 hours to table our amendments. The deadlines for consideration of this text are far too short. This afternoon and at the beginning of the evening, the service of the meeting was still considering the admissibility of the amendments. Many of mine have been found inadmissible, for reasons I do not know. Good justice respects the principle of adversariality, which is not the case here, since the rights of the opposition are again ignored, as are those of non-attached Members, decidedly regarded as second zone Members. Perhaps you've become accustomed to seeing those who don't think like you of sub-citizens – the treatment you have in the movement of "yellow vests" bears witness to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u157	Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u158	The original purpose of this amendment was to extend the date of this programming bill from 2018 to 2019. Negative notice, as the bill was tabled in Parliament in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u159	Mrs Nicole Belloubet, keeper of the seals, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u160	Unfavorable notice for the same reasons. 2018 is fully in line with this five-year programming. In 2018, credits had already increased by 3.9%, thus creating 1100 jobs, which is in line with the five-year trajectory I presented to you. This trajectory allows us to respond in terms of credits to the real estate needs of judicial justice – construction of new courthouses or renovation of existing courthouses. We will make significant efforts, especially for those in difficulty such as Toulon. These credits will also be allocated to prison real estate, with 7,000 places delivered in 2022. The remaining 8000 will start before 2022, be it land acquisitions, the start-up of studies or the start-up of all pre-operations. I would like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Cinieri, who has asked me twice this afternoon about the prison in La Talaudière, that EUR 12 million will be allocated for its renovation. Each year, significant funding will be allocated for the renovation of prisons – 110 million euros this year. In addition, the planned 6500 positions will allow us to recruit the prison supervisors we need to arm the new institutions we will open, to recruit integration and probation counsellors, magistrates – 100 will be in 2019, in addition to the replacement of retirements. This budget will also help us to contribute to the reduction in vacancies for magistrates, which amounted to some 500 last year when I arrived. We have filled a little more than half of them: so there is a little less than half of them left. Next year, there will be only a quarter left. We will then, I hope, have filled these job vacancies. The jobs of the PJJ, which are necessary for the new materials we create – the closed educational centres – are also provided for in this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u161	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u162	Mrs Ménard, you do not have a monopoly on the inadmissibility of your amendments: it does not concern only those Members who are not registered! Perhaps members of the majority have themselves seen some of their amendments declared inadmissible – this is not impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u163	This is the case with every text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u164	That would be true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u165	I would like to put the administrators of the Assembly, who are not at issue, at ease immediately: they are themselves caught in the infernal cyclone of the pace that is imposed on us all. There are only twenty-four hours in a day. It is the political organization of our work that is at stake. I spoke to the Chair of the Committee on Laws – not yet to the President of the Assembly or to the Chair of the sitting, since I have only just learned that our amendments were considered inadmissible. We are swimming in a hallucinating delusion: the 2008 provision I mentioned earlier, which had been planned to avoid censorship by the Constitutional Council, has been internalized by the Assembly itself. I do not understand this anti-democratic mode of operation, I would like to repeat. As far as the budget is concerned, you have responded, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to all the interventions on the article and not only to Mrs Ménard's amendment, which deals only with the date. You know as well as I do that you will not succeed in building these 7,000 prison places, nor in recruiting all the prison guards as you wish, since you are already unable to recruit coughs that would be needed to fill the currently vacant posts. We break into the wall at 120 kilometers per hour...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u166	[[Smile]] 80 kilometers per hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u167	...without realizing what we're doing. Arbitrations must be directed very differently, by focusing on what we are capable of accomplishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u168	I have before me four amendments, Nos 490, 489, 836 and 625, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 489 and 836 are identical. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 490.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u169	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you told us tonight that you were not the Snow Queen and that you did not want to make this text a great evening either. By reading the budget path that you are planning until 2022, unfortunately we can only confirm the lack of ambition that characterizes this text. The situation has been repeated many times this evening: the French justice system is in very bad condition, all the parameters are red, the comparison of the number of judges, whether from the seat or the prosecutor's office, with that of all the European countries, is in our disfavor, the real estate situation is bad, prison places are clearly insufficient, 100 000 legally enforceable prison sentences are not enforced, decisions lead to very long trial periods. In short, the situation is unbearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u170	Thank you to Mrs. Taubira!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u171	The method you have chosen, that of a programming law, is the right one: I had called it of my wishes by tabling in 2017 a bill to that effect. However, this text associated the interior with justice, because justice is the weak link in the security chain, which leads to the deterioration of the security situation in our country. There must be a much stronger ambition, Madam seal keeper, to provide credible answers to the current situation. But you promise us a potential, theoretical or virtual increase of 23.5% in the justice budget, whose inflation, by 2022, will wipe out almost two thirds: an increase of 1.3 billion in 2022 will not match the situation, which is now particularly serious, even catastrophic. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] That is why we are calling for a much stronger ambition: this is why the amendment proposes a 50% increase in the justice budget for the period 2018-2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u172	You have the floor, Mr Ciotti, to support Amendment No 489.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u173	The defence of this withdrawal amendment will allow me to continue on the need to provide additional resources for justice. If we reason in terms of the percentage of GDP, which is the only relevant indicator, since it allows us to compare with our European partners, excluding inflation, from year to year, the evolution of the share of national wealth that we devote to the budget of justice, we find that this share amounts to 0.36%. That's ridiculous. The increase you are presenting to us will only improve that proportion by a few hundredths. The aim must be to devote at least 0.5 per cent of national wealth to justice, because the means must be provided for a more efficient and faster justice, which gives consideration to the victims and which is the image of a strong republic, which is not the case when it is given in dilapidated buildings. There must be a justice system with a sufficient number of prison places to ensure that the criminal sanction imposed on behalf of the French people can be carried out. The sanction must be dissuasive. Justice must also be provided with means of prevention and punishment commensurate with the deterioration of the security situation in our country, which is unfortunately not proposed in the text. Therefore, if the previous amendment is not adopted, this withdrawal amendment is intended at least to return to the five-year trajectory set by the Senate, that is, 33% increase over the five-year period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u174	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 836.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u175	Rather than asking for the floor for a point of order, I shall start by astonishing at the curiosities we face in this debate. I do not go back to what has already been said: our thirty-three hours of debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure were serene, the atmosphere was honest, even though we probably did not exhaust all the subjects. On the other hand, the organisation of our work does not leave us to question: the passing hours, not only amendments are displaced – it is true that this is not new – but more and more of them are also declared inadmissible. Several hundred of my amendments have been tabled this year, and I am not taking stock of previous years. I have just received a notice of inadmissibility on the basis of article 45: it is a novelty, since I had not yet experienced it. In addition, reports from the Law Committee arrived very late, which makes it difficult for parliamentarians who have not been able to attend or are not members of the Committee. I would like to make these comments on behalf of my group, because this is a real difficulty. This amendment proposes to resume the budget path adopted in the Senate, which did a lot of work in early 2017, with a view to an alternation that certainly did not take place. However, the figures proposed and the ambitions displayed were at this point shared by all the candidates in the presidential election that all, whatever they may be, agreed to refer to the construction of 15,000 to 16,000 prison places on the horizon of the end of the next quinquennium. This is obviously not the case: the text only provides for 7,000 places, without giving way to a necessary modernisation. We believe that it is necessary, in order to make a catch-up and to allow more recruitment, in the interests of justice, to increase the budget of justice beyond the effort proposed, which is not to deny but is insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u176	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u177	Madam Keeper of the Seals, in your reply to Mrs Ménard's amendment, I noted with satisfaction that the Toulon Court was one of your priorities. I'm glad. You seem to be satisfied with an increase in the justice budget of 4.5%. This is obviously better than stabilization or reduction. However, this 4.5%, when combined with the 2% to 2.5% GVT – technological ageing – and the 2% inflation, will not fund all your legitimate ambitions. Often, you justify your political decisions by referring to candidate Macron's program. So where are the 15,000 prison places promised on the quinquennium? You contradict the political sincerity that was to be the marker of the new world. The President does not respect the candidate's commitments. We regret it. That is why this amendment is intended to restore the programming of the Senate, which we believe is more responsive to your department's issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u178	On Amendments Nos 489 and 836, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u179	We have all had amendments rebutted for inadmissibility, including the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u180	That's no excuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u181	It's just information. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to the fiscal trajectory, I share the words of Naïma Moutchou: previous interventions express a disconnected view of reality. It cannot be said that the budget path proposed by the Government lacks ambition: as we have done on many occasions since the beginning of the session, I would like to point out that it aims to increase the budget of justice by EUR 1.6 billion to EUR 8.3 billion, an increase of 24 per cent. This trajectory provides for an additional 6,500 jobs and a prison plan of 15,000 places, of which 7,000 are operational by the end of the quinquennium. Half a billion euros are spent on digital transformation, which is so necessary for the functioning of our justice system. In addition, this budget will be evaluated in 2021 to adjust it if necessary. I find it regrettable that the Senate has launched an overbid on the fiscal trajectory...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u182	It's not an overbid, it's common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u183	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... and even more regrettable that national representation is moving in the same direction by pursuing it. Of the four amendments under discussion, one goes beyond the Senate proposal and three restore it. Other amendments will propose off-ground budgets that are disconnected from reality. The budget path proposed by the Government is balanced: it is in line with the one adopted at the beginning of the quinquennium in the framework of the Finance Programming Bill and has been described as operational by the Council of State. Opinions against all these amendments and all those who will join in the race for the shallot, which we will be attending in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u184	I ask you for a little respect: it is not a race for the stallion, it is a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u186	In introducing your first amendment, Mr Ciotti, you called justice a "weak link in the security chain". You called for a much stronger ambition and proposed a 50 per cent increase in the justice budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u187	That's ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u188	It's probably ambition, but you're in the sweet land of dreams.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u189	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u190	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, sir. Tonight, we shave for free! Despite such a budget increase, explain to me how you will build the 15,000 prison places you mentioned with 500,000 fewer public jobs, since it was, if I remember correctly, the commitment of the candidate you supported at the time of the presidential election!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u191	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u192	[[Smile. – Mr Bruno Questel applauds]] How are you going to arm these new establishments, which you will build in three or seven days, to take biblical examples? Mr President, we must be realistic! For our part, we say what we are able to do. I agree with the rapporteur: to increase the budget for justice by EUR 1.6 billion, but that is not negligible! With these, we will be able to do justice in undilapidated buildings, as you yourself wish, Mr. Come with me to take the tour of France of the courthouses! I'll take you to Saint-Malo,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u193	In Saint-Malo, we fought well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u194	You don't need to take Gilles Lurton to Saint-Malo, he knows this town well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u195	... in Pointe-à-Pitre, Paris, Chalon-sur-Saône, Caen and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u196	You're lucky to be invited by the minister, Mr. Ciotti! No one's inviting me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u197	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will see that we have renovated courthouses, places worthy of justice. This is what the budget programming we are proposing allows: it is coherent, realistic and sustainable in terms of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u198	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u199	Two weeks ago, in committee, we had relatively calm and calm debates. That's why we're a little surprised that you're here tonight, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, Mrs. Rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u200	Who started it? We see you weren't there at the opening of the session, Mr. Schellenberger!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u201	...including in the semantic field you use. You've been talking about a scallop race...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u202	Mrs. Keeper of the Seals didn't say anything about a scallop race!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u203	...and an overbidding of the Senate, with an implausible contempt of the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u204	It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u205	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] When the Senate does substantive work on the needs of our prison administration and our judiciary, it is not in the overbidding. I do not think that the parliamentary shuttle is useless. But I understand, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the rapporteur, that your conception of parliamentary work was rather despicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u206	All in nuances!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u207	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Let me read to you Article 45 of the Constitution, Madam Keeper of the Seals: "Without prejudice to the application of Articles 40 and 41, any amendment shall be admissible at first reading if it presents a link, even indirect, with the text deposited or transmitted. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u208	What about the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u209	Review your first-year law courses!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u210	Is that a point of order, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u211	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Madam Keeper of the Seals, can you explain to me how, on the basis of this article, the services of the House, led by your majority, were able to reject our amendments? I don't understand. If this is not contempt for our House or for parliamentary work, then I have to explain things to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u212	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u213	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I've got a start on explaining. If the Benalla case hadn't been there,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u214	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u215	...the constitutional reform would have prospered. However, this constitutional reform contains what is being implemented in advance today: tomorrow, any amendment that is not directly related to the text under discussion will be inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u216	It's anticipation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u217	You are in anticipation, except that the texts currently in force do not allow you to deal with Parliament in this way. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I want to go back to the lesson of the Republic group on the financial path. Our trajectory is not that of removing the ISF, exit tax and introducing the flat tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u218	Go back to the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u219	Friday, in the midst of a conflict with the yellow vests, while France could no longer do with your bad policy, your parliamentarians were thinking about how to get the federal forests out of the IFI's base, the property tax. Here are your budget trajectories! We have solutions to fund the public service, as well as another fiscal trajectory to fund the needs of justice and prisons. Madam rapporteur, you look at me mocking you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u220	No, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u221	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Continuous protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...in contempt of me. I read it in your eyes. We have a radically different trajectory from yours and we assume it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u223	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group]] To sum up, as long as your bad constitutional reform is not implemented, you cannot anticipate it. As long as we are in opposition, we must be able to defend different fiscal and political trajectories in the Senate and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u224	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u225	As with health, I have the impression that we want to address the effects of the problem without addressing its causes. You are satisfied with an increase in the budget, arguing that this had not happened in a long time. At the same time, if the others have done nothing, it's not complicated to do a little more! You put additional resources, but why don't you tackle the causes of the problem? Madam Keeper of the Seals, you are the Minister of Justice. Perhaps the causes of injustice should be resolved! Right now, people who can't afford to eat are stealing food and taking places in our courts and prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u226	Stop your stories! We're not going to jail because we stole a piece of bread!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u227	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I could quote a lot of examples like that. I am sorry to make you sigh, ladies and gentlemen, but that is the reality! Why not become aware of this difficulty? By resolving the causes of the problem, we will no longer have to look for solutions to deal with the consequences! It's a real job we have to do. If we do away with injustice in our country, we would solve a lot of the difficulties that this bill is tackling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u228	[[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] What a good idea! Why didn't we think earlier about eliminating injustice?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u229	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u230	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you said earlier that our proposal for a five-year increase of 50% in the justice budget belonged to the "soft country of dreams".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u231	Why didn't you do it when you were in power?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u232	You asked me how we could build prison places, among other things. I invite you to read the report that I have submitted to President Sarkozy, who has suggested ways forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u233	None of these leads had been retained!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u234	I am also in touch with the Chair of the Law Committee: I hope that the prison structures will be much lighter and much cheaper. In my report, I also proposed the immediate introduction of prefabricated prison courts in order to immediately build the thousands of places that are now sorely lacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u235	All in jail!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u236	We had identified military sites where these light structures could have been established. These sites, which were disused, are listed in my report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u237	Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u238	Because Taubira went that way!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u239	In fact, the departments of the department that you are leading today have explored this possibility. So there are solutions! We need an extra €3,250 billion in 2022, and you asked me how to find those amounts. Today, the welfare state costs €740 billion. Couldn't we at last realize savings? By increasing the retirement age, we would reduce public spending by €20 billion each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u240	This is a good idea that you should submit to your friends the "yellow vests"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u241	Today, asylum policy costs EUR 2 billion and state medical aid EUR 1 billion. We've got ways to save money. Yes, the presidential project that I supported proposed to go further in reducing certain public jobs that are no longer necessary today – I accept and claim – in order to make a more relevant allocation of resources. The Regalian state, the one that protects us and has a meaning – defence, security and justice – accounts for 3.16% of the national wealth, while the welfare state accounts for 32%. In the face of increasing threats, we cannot continue this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u242	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u243	The State must re-arm itself and do so first and foremost on a budgetary basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u244	All in jail!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u245	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u246	I'll try to calm down the debates a little...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u247	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u248	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] ...maybe a little bit of a frenzy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u249	We've had worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u250	What a lack of humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u251	Mr Schellenberger, there is no contempt for anyone in the expressions of each other. Simply put, you put on the table your proposal to increase the justice budget by 50%. When has a 50% budget been increased as you propose and as the Senate proposes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u252	1968!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u253	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] It's surreal, unrealistic! Talking about running to the shallot is perhaps a little excessive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u254	What about the AME?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u255	What about France's contribution to the European Union, which amounts to 7 billion euros?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u256	... but let us still comment on the amendments that you are tabling with a completely out of proportion to what can be done in a fully reasonable justice budget! For our part, we propose a reasoned increase of 25%, i.e. €1.6 billion. You claim that it will be totally absorbed by inflation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u257	You're blazing inflation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u258	... but here too, we still have the right to bring you a little contradiction and to tell you that it may not be reasonable to hold on to this kind of argument. It's not because we answer you argument by argument...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u259	You don't have any arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u260	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] ...that we are contemptuous, as you say. That's not the case at all! Again, we provide factual answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u261	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u262	Mr Jumel, the budgetary path we are holding back is no longer the cumulation of deficits, either in the social security budget or in the state budget. Mr Ciotti, some things should still make you modest. The choices made during the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u263	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Rebeyrotte, do not answer each of the Members. Talk to all of our colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u264	We had to tell the other speakers too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u265	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Wait, Madam President, I'm going to thank Mrs. Keeper of the Seals in a moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u266	The opposite would have surprised us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u267	...because it ruled out the famous public-private partnerships – PPP – used at the time, which made us build many prison places for a cost one and a half times higher. At the time, we were told that these PPPs had a great advantage:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u268	We're still being told!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u269	...they were not taken into account in the debt of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u270	In the Maastrichtian debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u271	The only problem is that in 2010, the Court of Auditors corrected the situation and called for the reinstatement of PPP debt into the debt of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u272	Well done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u273	All this cost the State very much, Mr Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u274	All this continues to be very expensive! Why are you talking to the past?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u275	At the same time, you were not on the date of the number of places. It is therefore necessary to be a little modest: I prefer the method of realistically building the places that we are able to build in our budget,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u276	You spent thirty years in the Socialist Party, and that's the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u277	Please, my dear colleague! Only Mr Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u278	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... which is in line with fiscal trajectories and which avoids further widening deficits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u279	You didn't censor Mrs. Keeper of the Seals! You'll have to take the floor again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u280	Please, Mr. Schellenberger!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u281	It's true, it's an unfortunate forgetfulness!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u282	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u283	I do not want to argue about the issue of the budget – I have already said what I thought – but I want to continue the debate on prison places. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have stated that it is possible to build 7,000 seats by 2022. It's incomprehensible...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u284	It's an illusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u285	...because the impact study specifies that five years are necessary to build a prison place. I therefore do not see how, in 2019, we can guarantee the construction of 7,000 prison places by 2022. Could we not, as we asked in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – I have inquired, but no one here has received it – obtain the forecast plan for the construction of these 7,000 places, with the identified establishments and the progress of the procedure, so that this controversy can finally be settled in the light of the documents that you will transmit to us and which will enable us to close the debate? In view of the impact assessment, I cannot consider the creation of 7,000 places in 2022 as acquired, unless – what I wish – you have elements to confirm such an advance, which we call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u286	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u287	I shall return to these places of imprisonment, which I have already mentioned in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, earlier, in the general discussion. The seal keeper announces procedural simplifications – I would like to know which ones, because we are not given much detail – to speed up the construction movement. Either, but if we apply an exorbitant urban code of common law, we will have to explain it to us. Today, in reality, very few land is mobilizable, because very few have been purchased. Thus, most of the time, local planning plans – PLU – are not in line with the destination of such establishments. Local residents will be able, and this is quite legitimate, to challenge the land use plan. In addition, of course, to this is the issue of the issuance of building permits and their possible challenge. In a word, with all this, the construction of these 7,000 places is, in reality, untenable. Full of good will, I would like to exclude from this number the 2000 places belonging to more open environments that allow some security relief, but there are still 5000 remaining to be created which, today, at the end of 2018, cannot be activated and, in any case, completed by the end of 2022. As for the rest, the 8000 other places needed to reach the figure of 15000 are powder in the eyes. Indeed, holding the target of 7,000 is already almost impossible mission. The rest is really illusory, especially since the annexed document, which we will be discussing earlier on Article 1, mentions a maximum of 15,000 places and thus sets a ceiling, and in no case a real number of places in prison. All of this inspires a great deal of doubt and caution, and leads us to associate ourselves with various questions. I therefore relay, on behalf of my group, those of Cécile Untermaier: where exactly are we in terms of the location plan and the actual programming, department by department? Today, we are really in a state of blur.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u288	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u289	I agree with Mr Ciotti, who is quite right. Madam Minister, do not dislike – and there is nothing personal – justice is the weak link in everything that contributes to the safety of French and French people. The gendarmes, the police and the customs officers do an excellent job, but the justice system does not follow, and when it follows at the level of the magistrates, it does not follow at the level of the prisons. This would require significantly higher resources. By way of comparison, and I repeat in the Chamber today what we have already said in the Committee on Laws, France spends EUR 60 per capita on the Ministry of Justice, compared with EUR 122 in Germany and EUR 82 in Belgium: we therefore have efforts to make. You will object to me that the judges of the court are counted in this figure in France, and not in Germany. Let us therefore accept that there is a gap, but France is still very much behind schedule, which needs to be closed, and we will not be able to do so with adjustments of 4% or 4.5% per year. That's totally inadequate. I therefore agree with Eric Ciotti on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u290	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u291	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. Having indeed been questioned, I will reply on various points. Mr President, you have asked me about the role I would have played in the declaration of inadmissibility of the amendments. Don't worry, I didn't play any part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u292	Ah! We believe you on your word, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u293	I respect Parliament's independence too much. Please also know, honourable Member, that I myself have been subjected to this inadmissibility for some of the amendments that the Government has tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u294	Who's running the country, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u295	That's not good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u296	I consider this to be the application of a constitutional rule that has been defined and clarified by the Constitutional Council. Mr Ciotti, let me go back to the overall increase that you are advocating by more than 50% of the budget, which I really welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u297	It's for!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u298	If I compare the 24% increase we are proposing with what was done between 2007 and 2012, that is an increase of 13%,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u299	There was the shock of 2008!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u300	I am simply surprised at the difference between what you are proposing and what you have had the opportunity to do, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u301	He's got a good back, the 2008 shock!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u302	There are certainly all kinds of shocks. That's a good idea, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u303	That's the reality, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u304	As to how we are going to deal with the 7,000 prison places, about which you and Mrs Untermaier are asking me, we have to say the things as we announced from the start: when I came to the head of the ministry, there were about 60,000 prison places and we announced that we would raise this figure to 75,000: these are the 15,000 additional places promised by the President of the Republic, of which 7,000 would be delivered in 2022. These 7,000 seats will be delivered. Work is currently under way on several sites and we have land already owned by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u305	Can we get their list?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u306	Which ones? Is it possible to get a list of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u307	There are. There are lands that already belong to the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u308	The list!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u309	Don't get upset, I'm coming. I have also presented to the Council of Ministers the prison plan, which has been widely relayed by the press, but I will of course be delighted to be able to present it to you. There's nothing secret. Everything is known, except a few cities where I don't yet have the land – these are constructions that will be launched before 2022, but will be delivered later. Apart from a few situations, which rely on the fingers of one hand, for which I do not yet have the land, in all the others we already have the land. So there's no reason to doubt what I'm announcing. On the other hand, and that will be my last point, we have a policy of diversifying our prisons. So if the average construction time for a place is five years on average, as you say, some establishments, such as accompaniment structures to the exit, will require less security and in this case we will be able to go much faster. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, honourable Member, acceleration procedures are included in the law. You will therefore have the opportunity to examine them and they will be useful for us to speed up these prison constructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u310	So that's what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u311	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 489 and 836.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u312	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 15 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u313	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 616, 1499, 23, 1070, 57, 68 and 758, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 57, 68 and 758 are identical. On Amendment No 23, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u314	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u315	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 1499.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u316	[[Smile]] This amendment will, I am sure, be adopted unanimously, because it proposes to increase the appropriations of the Ministry of Justice – it had to be tried, because we never know! Our group believes that you have made a very important effort for the budgets of justice, and we give you all the credit. By comparing the situation of our country with that of our European neighbours, in particular that of one of them which has a size, a level and, above all, a judicial system comparable to ours – you have explained very well just now that it is necessary to compare what is comparable, which is the case here – we have tried to catch up with Spain by proposing a slightly more ambitious programming than yours and which would lead us, in 2020, to a comparable level, taking into account the studies carried out to situate us in relation to our European partners. While the effort made is important, we must not remain in the middle of the ford. Let us therefore continue the effort and allow our country to join its European partners and reach the level of its neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u317	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u318	We propose, with this amendment, to increase the budget of the Ministry of Justice to EUR 9.5 billion by 2022. That is what we proposed in the 2017 presidential election in order to reach 0.33% of GDP. This figure does not seem to be very high, because we could have gone further, but it seems to us that it provides the necessary budgetary room for manoeuvre, not for the construction of 7,000 additional prison places, because we do not want to build them, but for the redeployment of the current prison places to lighter, human-sized establishments and, above all, for the hiring of sufficient prison integration and probation advisers and magistrates and for the re-establishment of courts. As you pointed out to me, minister, our ambitions go a little further than yours in terms of the proximity and re-establishment of "places of justice", as you say in a somewhat general and generic way. That is why we are proposing this amendment, which has no other ambition than to bring us to an overall level at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u319	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1070.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u320	A few weeks ago, in October, the batonière de Paris, Marie-Aimée Peyron, did not hide her concern about the justice bill we are considering. His observation was simple: the lack of human resources is at the root of the alarming slowness of justice. At present, in Paris, it is an average of one year before the court of grande instance renders a judgment and forty months for the sittings. According to her, this is due to a number of judges more than insufficient. The number of cases that come to court is simply enormous in relation to the absorption capacity of the latter. In Béziers, the situation was not bright in 2017: three out of twenty-three judicial posts were not filled and, in general, 22.5 per cent of the staff were missing so that the court could run fully. In 2018, things improved a little, although two out of 24 judicial positions remain to be filled. In terms of officers, there are still four out of the sixty-eight theoretical staff in the TGI. As for the trial court, it works almost on a single leg, since there are still five out of fourteen theoretical officers missing. Béziers is of course not the only city in this case: this phenomenon is found throughout the territory, which is very damaging for the French, who are increasingly having difficulty accessing justice. If additional resources are not given to train more judges, it will not be surprising that the link between justice and the French is becoming increasingly weak. It is therefore in order to combat justice at a slow pace and misunderstood by the citizens that I propose to increase its budget by an additional 5%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u321	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u322	This amendment is in line with the previous ones and is based on the same spirit. Minister, if the proposed effort is there, it is insufficient to ensure the budgetary reform of the courts and the prison administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u323	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u324	The Senate had adopted a much more ambitious budget path, commensurate with the challenges and the current lack of means of justice, which my colleagues have not failed to recall, in an attempt to reach the level of the main countries of the European Union – because France is unfortunately lagging behind. That is why you are being asked to change the payment appropriations for the Justice Mission, in line with these elements and the trajectory envisaged by the Senate, so that the result can be commensurate with the issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u325	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u326	Unless I am mistaken, it is the same as the one who has just been supported: it is therefore defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u327	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 758.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u328	The facts are stubborn and, although sometimes it is difficult to face them, we might save time not to ignore them. According to the Ministry of Justice, in 2017, out of 69077 detainees, 14964 were foreign nationals, representing 22% of the total prison population. For example, in that year there were 1954 Algerian prisoners, 1895 Moroccans, 1496 Romanians and 1102 Tunisians; These four nationalities alone accounted for 42 per cent of foreign nationals detained in France. At a time when the Government is fighting in every direction to tell us that instead of the 15,000 seats promised by candidate Macron, there will be only 7,000, one wonders if all the solutions have been considered. Before using French taxes to pay for the construction of new prison places, it might be useful to take stock of what is happening there. This is all the more true since the French are tired of paying for everything and all the time. One inmate costs the company 100 euros per day, i.e. 36000 euros per year. The calculation is simple: the 14964 foreign prisoners cost the French more than 538 million euros in 2017. So why not take an example of our neighbours in Outre-Manche, who do not hesitate to return criminals and foreign offenders to their country of origin at the end of their sentence? We cannot resolve to the status quo. We should, in parallel with the construction of new prisons, enter into diplomatic negotiations with the various countries whose prisoners are nationals in order to reduce the congestion of our prisons. This is the same approach as in Belgium where, since 2013, our neighbour can force an alien to serve his or her sentence in his or her country. This seems to work quite well since Belgium has seen its number of prisoners decline since the introduction of this measure, which is therefore an effective and cost-effective measure. What more ask and why wait to apply it in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u329	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u330	I would like to point out that the programming law provides for a budget of EUR 8.3 billion: it is therefore a realistic, balanced and ambitious budget. These amendments propose a whole range of measures for EUR 8.9 billion by 2022, EUR 9.43 billion, EUR 9.5 billion, EUR 9.8 billion or EUR 12.3 billion. I don't want to use the words "overbid" or "scaling" but I find myself a little bit devoid of qualifiers in this case. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u332	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u333	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u334	I support these amendments, which are all aimed at abounding in the budgetary programming that you have planned. Minister, I would like to respond to the exchange we had earlier. Far from creating a polemic on the question of means: we are here to try to improve the extremely degraded situation of justice in our country in the face of threats that have increased considerably in recent years, and especially since 2015 with the rise of terrorism. There is a need to change the framework of reasoning. Mr. Rebeyrotte referred earlier to a period of more than ten years. For my part, I do not feel accountable for this period: I am one of those who consider that we have not done enough, during this period, on the regal issues. If we had done more, by the way, we might still be here today – but this is another debate. It is a debate of the past, and I am astonished that the apostles of the new world constantly refer to the old.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u335	Less 10,00 policemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u336	We are here to work together in the face of new perils, new threats, a finding of impoverishment of justice. We suggest you go further. The method you have adopted is good and I agree with it; However, we consider that in view of the threats and the extraordinarily degraded situation, you are not going far enough. There is a need to change the framework of reasoning. It is more relevant to measure as a percentage of GDP, of national wealth, of the effort made in favour of justice and, more generally, of the protecting State, of the Regalian State. Over the past fifty years, it has been weakened in its dimensioning in relation to the welfare state, regardless of government. That's the point: you have to reason differently from the threats.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u337	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u338	I would like to go back to our amendment, which, in all things, is relatively reasonable. We propose to reach 9.5 billion. I don't know if it's a scalable race, but it seems to us very reasonable to propose an increase of 4400 posts for 200 million, to renovate the courts and prisons for 250 million, to recruit prison staff for 22.5 million, more than 500 integration and probation advisers, the immediate upgrading of legal aid, the doubling of the prevention budget. This is not a 50% or 100% increase: it is a reasonable increase that, in our view, would meet urgent needs. However, you do not dislike the rapporteur, Madam Minister, but these urgent needs do not, from our point of view, consist in the construction of 7000, 15000 or 150000 new prison places.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u339	That's the scallop race!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u340	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] At this stage of the debate, it is important to make it clear, for our fellow citizens to understand the meaning of our proposals, that this is absolutely not a response to delinquency or prison overcrowding. The facts, again, are stubborn: the increase in the incarcerated population has nothing to do with the increase in so-called delinquency. Jean-Marie Delarue, former Comptroller-General of places of deprivation of liberty, said: "The common idea that the numbers of imprisoned persons are linked to the state of delinquency in the country must be resolutely removed. All studies of long-term crime victimization or evolution show this: what is increasing the detained population is the criminalization of more crimes, it is the immediate appearance, it is all the measures contained in your bill of justice, which will fill the few prisons that you manage to build. This will absolutely not solve delinquency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u341	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u342	I would like to say a word about Mr Ciotti's remarks. He claims that it is a debate of the past and that he is not an accountant of the choices that were made during the period when he and his friends were in charge. Indeed, we have understood that he felt unaccountable for a number of choices that put us in a difficult situation and that have led our country into difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u343	It's not clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u344	Yes, it is! You are proposing a budget of $8.9 billion, with an increase that would be reasonable; It's a little bit higher than ours. First of all, I note that we are not far from the point of view, whereas a little earlier, in the general discussion and in the defence of the motion for reference, I have heard that the level should be significantly increased. Actually, you're not far from our level. Why didn't you? It's a good thing to admit it and recognize that it was wrong, but stop blaming us for not doing enough! Today we inherit thirty years of lack of investment in justice, thirty years during which you did nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u345	It doesn't work anymore, this argument is the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u346	Stop looking at the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u347	From now on, we take matters into our own hands and you know it very well. Mr Gosselin asked us earlier to create 15,000 additional places, before adding that everyone knew perfectly well that it was impossible to create 7,000 places: there is something completely inconsistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u348	It is the presidential promise that is incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u349	I simply ask you to be consistent and to be intellectually honest: that would be good in our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u350	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u351	It's been several years since it's been the scalable race with regard to the construction of prison places. If there's a horse race in the Ministry of Justice, it's in the prison administration! The various analyses have shown that the more prison places are built, the more they are filled: the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty as his predecessors have said and repeated in the envious. It is clear, therefore, that there is a scald race on this subject. On the trajectory of this budget, which we want to raise to 9.5 billion euros in 2022, my colleague Danièle Obono gave you the breakdown for the 2019 budget alone: that is to say, if we have anything to tell you about 2020, 2021 and 2022! We still have to keep it in the matter. We want to go up to 9.5 billion rather than 8.3: it is not the enormous, colossal effort that we could hope for! I felt like I was making a rather sober speech earlier, explaining that I was not very proud to announce that we wanted to raise the budget to 0.33% of GDP. But that is the reality of the situation! I want us to be invective, to blame ourselves for not doing anything in the past – I don't know, I wasn't, in this case! I can let you mess with each other, but I wasn't there. So the question is what we'll do when we look in front of us: I don't think looking in front of us means building another 15,000 prison places. I give you a little anecdote before turning the microphone back: I wondered why this number of 15,000. I noticed that in the last presidential election, a number of political programmes proposed the construction of 15,000 prison places. Similarly, in the previous presidential election, some programmes were already planning to build 15,000 prison places. I wondered where this number of 15,000 places came from, which comes back quite often. In fact, it was people from the prison administration at the time who estimated the number of prison places missing at 15,000; Since then, this estimate has been used in presidential presidential programmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u352	Perhaps it is simply because it corresponds to the needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u353	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So there's a scald race. Let's keep reason in the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u354	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u355	A few words, dear colleague Balanant, about intellectual honesty. Intellectual honesty obliges us to recall that the increase of almost 15% in the budget of justice under Nicolas Sarkozy's mandate was unique – well tried, said the Keeper of Seals earlier, but that is still the reality, Madam Keeper of Seals! This was unprecedented in a very particular context, that of the 2008 crisis, which put all public finances at risk; You know it perfectly well. Intellectual honesty also obliges us to recall that we had the prospect of important constructions of prison places, but that Mrs Taubira, guard of the Seals under the presidency of François Hollande, stopped everything for four and a half years, excuse for a little! Intellectual honesty also obliges us to recall that Jean-Jacques Urvoas, then keeper of the Seals, had made the number of places necessary to maintain establishments worthy of this name, to ensure individual confinement: the consensus had been established at 11,000 places. But we will still be far from it with the plan that the Government is proposing, I can assure you! So, whether it's 11,000 or 15,000, whatever it is, we're not going to go into a rattlesnake battle, but I can tell you that with 7,000 seats, the account won't be there! In addition, I have just read Article 51: it does contain some procedural changes on public consultation, but the usual remedies against building permits, local planning plans, etc. will remain common law. I therefore do not see how, in these circumstances, we will achieve the objectives of this plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u356	Because you wouldn't have had any problems with building permits?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u357	We did, in the presidential debate, mention 15,000 or 16,000 seats, except that we were ready to finance them now, within the framework of this legislature, and not by making plans on the comet in 2027!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u358	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u359	I'll be brief. Minister, I want to offer you the opportunity not to leave us on a misunderstanding. I would like you to present a list with the status of operations tomorrow – it leaves us at night, or half of the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u360	This is not the purpose of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u361	It is important that Parliament be made aware of the reality of the objectives it sets itself. I understood that we were in the process of evaluating; I understood that it was important to have the means to examine the capacity to implement public policies. I would ask the minister to give us a list of the proposed transactions and the ones in which the state is or is about to be owned, as well as their status. I guess there are backplannings for every operation. Who knows if this will not allow you to close the debate to your advantage? I want to take this risk, provided we have an accurate view of your ability to achieve the goals that have occupied us for the past hour and a half by 2022. If we can act on this together, it will already be a step forward. Can we at least get that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u362	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u363	Madam President, I would like to reply once again – but it is always with pleasure – to Mr Ciotti. In essence, Mr President, you are asking us to translate into an increase in the budget the strengthening of this protective state of our fellow citizens, particularly in view of the rise of terrorism. On the one hand, I say that the budget is on the increase and, on the other hand, what your amendments are not doing, we are proposing reforms that are in line with that protecting state: the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, the harmonization of thresholds, which will simplify the work of investigators, and many other reforms that are distilled in the bill that I am proposing to you. It is therefore the combination of the budgetary increase and these reforms that will allow us to move forward, one that does not go without the others, you will agree, if we really want to ensure the security of the French. Mr. Jumel, the card you're asking for has been on the department's website for more than a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u364	I can't find her!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u365	I put to the vote Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u366	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 58 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 14 Against 38
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u367	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-19-O1070.u368	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote, by public vote, on the entire 2019 Finance Bill; Discussion, with final reading, of the draft law and the proposed organic law on the fight against the manipulation of information; Further to the discussion of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill and the organic bill on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
