ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr François Ruffin and several of his colleagues on burn-out, aimed at making the psychological pathologies resulting from occupational exhaustion recognised as occupational diseases (No. 516, 580).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u2	Mr François Ruffin, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u3	In Le Jour d'avant, Sorj Chalandon's latest novel, a farmer tries to dissuade his son Joseph from entering the mine. He promises her silicosis, coal in the lungs, adding: "And you know what, Jojo? No one will recognize your illness. At the medical examination, guess what doctors advise minors who cough? Quit smoking. They're tying up their health check-ups. And if the guy dies, you have to prove it was silicosis. We have to dig him up. We've got to get her autopsy. You have to fuck her one last time to make her lungs mess with the truth. All this so that the Houillères would agree to pay three francs of pension to his widow. » We're here today for mental disorders; We're here for the brain silicosis. Joseph, today, it was David, a football buddy, who ended up at my house one day, completely defeated, shot down, after eighteen years of career in the management of a Lidl store. "I never thought of falling so low, to the point of having to consult psychiatrists, psychologists," he said to me, and he concludes: "What I still haven't understood is this difficulty in having my illness recognized as an occupational disease, so that Lidl will pay for it. All the doctors, and even my lawyer, told me, "Don't throw yourself in there, it's "out of the picture." Today, being recognized as an occupational disease is almost impossible mission. » This has been confirmed by all the trade unionists, all the labour lawyers we have heard, by talking about a real "combatant's journey", a " impasse", a "maze". This is also confirmed by the statistics. The latest report of the National Health Insurance Fund, which has just been published, is devoted to work-related mental illnesses. It welcomes the fact that the number of recognized cases has increased sevenfold in five years. Either, but to get how much? 596. How many work-related mental disorders are we talking about? "A few hundred thousand cases a year." That's the order of magnitude. This estimate is approved by all experts from the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, INSERM, Health Insurance Fund, Institute of Health Watch, INVS. We are in these waters, a few hundred thousand cases a year, compared to the 596 recognized. These are "derisory figures": it is not I who say it, but the psychiatrist Patrick Légeron, a member of the National Academy of Medicine and author of a report on the matter. It highlights an extraordinary paradox: on the one hand, the World Health Organization points to stress at work as the first risk for workers; On the other hand, mental disorders are absent from our table of occupational diseases. It considers this gap unacceptable and considers it absolutely necessary to recognise work-related mental illnesses. On the screen that's behind me, it's written that we want burn-out to be recognized as an occupational disease. I would like to make it clear that this is not what we are asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u4	That's exactly what you're asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u5	No, we are asking for the recognition of mental disorders as occupational diseases: that is what is stated in the bill. We want heavy depression, post-traumatic stress, and widespread anxiety caused by burnout to be included in the table of occupational diseases. These diseases are listed, named, classified and well known to psychiatrists. Our proposal is to ensure that the victim receives full reimbursement of medical expenses and a pension that is significantly higher than the active solidarity income, the RSA. For society, it would be a lower cost, especially for health insurance, which now bears this cost, to the point that the Minister of Health Agnès Buzyn herself is concerned about it and says: "Until when will health insurance compensate for management failures? It is several billion euros a year that should be borne by the polluter employer – the brain polluter, in this case. But our proposal goes beyond budgetary matters. Our proposal is for prevention. In "Les Désordres du travail", health economist Philippe Askenazy has perfectly demonstrated that punishment is a prevention. He noted that in the United States, at the beginning of the 2000s, the number of occupational accidents and diseases had decreased by one third, thanks to taxation, the introduction of a bonus-malus, which had reduced the profit rate of enterprises by 2%. As soon as this became a reality in the accounting balance sheets and in the heads of the leaders, they began to be accountable. Today, in France, psychosocial risks cost companies nothing. So they don't exist. "It's so taboo in business today. It's not me who says it, but Flore Crépin, Director of Human Resources, who goes through the big distribution, through a call centre, through the industry. She continues: "This is the forbidden subject. We, as HR, don't even have the right to say the word "stress." When I see the lack of real commitment of the directorates, I think to myself: apart from putting in place heavy financial sanctions, I do not see what could motivate the boxes. » That would motivate them, indeed. They will pay for the severe depressions they cause; They will pay for work-related mental disorders. They will enter it in the "costs" column of their accounting balance sheet, and I would ask that it be the same in the public services, in hospitals, in police stations, that the variable share of directors' salaries be based on this index of ill-being. This language of numbers, all directions understand it. It is the most effective stimulator, from which to convert, and very quickly, to prevention. In the meantime, even dramas don't change anything. Despite eighteen years of investigation in the world of work as a journalist, I was surprised to see that even the most terrible of acts, suicide, does not in any way upset managerial habits. Let's quote David, a risk analyst at the Caisse d'savings Côte d'Azur: "Before me, a mother of family director of an agency threw herself under a train. She left a very explicit letter about the poor managerial manners of the Savings Bank. The second suicide was that of a call centre manager. Last year finally, to celebrate the plenary results, which had proved excellent, the management had rented a castle in the Var. A forty-six-year-old management controller, who was known to be overworked, did a stroke during the party. He died despite the intervention of the UAS and the firefighters. I thought that after this tragic event, there would be a questioning, an awareness. Not at all, on the contrary: our management took the opportunity to remove a position. » After all these tragic events, David will see his direction because he is at the edge of the crack. He is advised that "there is no harm in getting help from antidepressants." Here's the management in place: when you're on the verge of cracking, you're told: "If you're putting me at psychosocial risk, I'll fire you. » This mortiferous management can move forward like a blind compressor roller: it is not punished; it shall not be punished; He doesn't pay the price of the men he crushes. Worse, he enjoys the complicity of the public authorities, at least their passivity, their silence, their inaction. Dr. Ducrocq, a lawyer at the Lille Bar, reports this anecdote: "Mr.Boitard committed suicide in 2013 after leaving a very explicit testimony about the Savings Bank. I've re-launched the prosecutor's office more than once. The president of the High Court reminded me: "We're really sorry, we didn't treat. » What does this short story mean? That impunity is validated by the justice itself; that this subject, society does not take it seriously, even though there are real managerial crimes committed in the closed doors of companies. At the Lidl de Rousset, for a year, trade unionists, executives, knocked at the door of the labour inspectorate, of occupational medicine. In vain. They tried to warn about crazy management, about the pressure they were under, about serial depressions, about the stroke of the previous director, about audits, checks, evaluations, humiliations. No one, no third party intervened. Until 29 May 2015. Until Yannick Sansonnetti's suicide, found hanged in the cold room of the warehouse. And what's changed? Nothing. The Regional Director was not even dismissed, only displaced. He's gone as a manager somewhere else, but I dare say it's a danger to society. Neither he nor any other leader of Lidl was placed in police custody, handcuffed on his wrists, in pre-trial detention. Three years after the facts, no one is charged. Managerial crimes are automatically amnestied. Recognition, too, has that virtue. It has symbolic value. It's an alarm signal we're shooting. This is an alert addressed not only to business managers but also to the public authorities. That this question is now taken with arms-to-body, and not just with "awareness," not just with a belly dance. How did we go from 18,000 deaths on the roads of France to 3600 today – even if it's 3600 deaths too much? Not by hugging the drivers, but by fear of the gendarmerie, by introducing fines, installing radars, decreeing sanctions that can go up to court and prison sentences. Well, if we also want to divide the number of work-related mental disorders by six, we will also have to go through the sanction. Recognition does not pretend to be the panacea, but a starting point. How can we fight collectively, effectively, against an evil that is not even named in the bible of occupational diseases, the most official of documents? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and on some benches of the NG group]] That is why I ask you to remedy today what psychiatrist Patrick Légeron calls an "unacceptable lag".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u6	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u7	Madam President, rapporteur François Ruffin, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on burn-out, which you have presented with the passion that characterizes you, has the merit of highlighting the crucial importance of well-being at work. Indeed, the many testimonies that mark the explanatory statement of your bill, such as the comments you have just made, highlight a huge human waste. They also point to an essential lack of economic sense, because the health of employees is an undeniable source of efficiency in work, and therefore of individual and collective performance. Similarly, it is the work done in good conditions that contributes to health and personal achievement. The stakes are therefore the well-being of employees and their exploitation as the company's main resource. In France, pride in good work occupies an essential place. The trade is not just a source of remuneration. When you question the employees, they first claim this social existence, that collective bond that may exist within the company. Personal development, integration and social ties are sometimes undermined by working conditions that are considered unacceptable or even inhuman – and it is not up to me to express this appreciation. As early as 2010, a report on psychosocial risks, submitted to the then Prime Minister by Henri Lachmann, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schneider Electric, Christian Larose of the CGT, and Muriel Pénicaud highlighted this strong interdependence between social, health, organisation and management. Under the impetus of Benoît Hamon, the debate was relaunched a few months ago in this House. It is, in fact, essential to work on the quality of life at work, which is a growing concern of our citizens. We need to explore all avenues for improvement in this area, even though the number of work stoppages and occupational diseases remains high, and occupational health services are experiencing a disaffection that, without corrective action, can become problematic for business, the economy and employment. That is why the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, have decided to launch a global reflection on occupational health. This mission, as you know, has been entrusted to your colleague Charlotte Lecocq, Member of Parliament for the North, as well as to the former Confederate Secretary of Trade Union Henri Forest, and to the qualified personality Bruno Dupuis. By 30 April, they will have to take stock of the situation, identify the stakes and the actors and formulate proposals, which we wish to see as ambitious as possible, particularly with regard to preventive measures, on the basis of foreign examples. While your bill therefore helps, Mr.Ruffin, to emphasize the importance of well-being at work, it shows the extreme difficulty of limiting burn-out to the fixed framework of a picture of recognition of occupational diseases. The academic literature and parliamentary work carried out in recent years all underline that the contours of this occupational exhaustion syndrome are moving, as they result from a plurality of closely related factors, both professional and personal, which, moreover, sometimes manifest themselves in a different way from one person to another. Therefore, the implementation of your bill would face several obstacles. First, the presumption of accountability for professional activity cannot be systematic. Second, setting a turnaround time is difficult to determine, as it is extremely variable from one individual to another. Finally, no list of work, limited or even indicative, could be drawn up. That is why, as you yourself have acknowledged in committee, the inclusion of burn-out in the recognition table for occupational diseases, as you propose, is not an appropriate response to the scale and complexity of this problem. Worse still, this provision would exclude the possibility of dealing specifically with all the emotional, physical, cognitive or behavioural manifestations of this syndrome. Therefore, the system of individual expertise appears to be the most appropriate and efficient, particularly in comparison with the arrangements put in place by our European partners. In this connection, allow me to point out a small inaccuracy in the explanatory memorandum to your proposal for a law, concerning the case of Belgium. It is not, as you indicate, 83155 cases of burn-out recognized as an occupational disease and compensated as such that have been identified. This figure actually corresponds to the number of depressions and burn-out, whatever the cause, compensated in 2014 for a work stoppage of more than one year. This clarification, I would like to remind you that it is now possible, in France, to have burn-out recognised as an off-the-shelf occupational disease. Moreover, the number of favourable opinions issued by the Regional Committees for the Recognition of Occupational Diseases – C2RMP – has increased seven times in five years, reaching 596 cases in 2016. This significant increase is in general linked to the implementation of the recommendations of the Working Conditions Guidance Board – the COCT – which includes the social partners. But this increase is also due to the contribution of the decree of 7 June 2016, which allows the intervention of psychiatrists during the various stages of the procedure. It is through such provisions that we will facilitate the possibility for each person concerned to have his burn-out recognised before the C2RMP. The Government's reservations to this bill derive from this. It is not a question of considering burn-out as an epiphenomena. But we believe that it is by deepening the knowledge on this subject, by identifying and acting on psychosocial risk factors, that burn-out is prevented. In fact, it seems to me that the question that your bill raises in substance, without answering it, is prevention. The provisions you are proposing do not include a prevention component, which is crucial to dealing with this problem at its root. But you know that, as with all psychosocial risks, organisation, environment and labour relations within the company – you have given some examples – can have a significant impact on a worker, on an employee, on an individual, on a woman, on a man, on each person – because we are talking first of all about human situations. It is also within the Social and Economic Committee, which will bring together decisions on organisation, management and social conditions – including safety, prevention and living conditions at work – that we will be able to push further this essential logic of prevention. Of course, the involvement of the social partners within the company does not exhaust their involvement within the branch, which now has a lock in the prevention of occupational risks. This mobilisation of the social partners, complementary to the vigilance of the Labour Inspectorate, can also be based on the work of certain bodies, such as the Working Conditions Guidance Council, which, within the framework of the Health at Work Plan for the years 2016-2020, develops operational materials and recommendations validated by the High Health Authority. Finally, I think that one of the reasons for the onset of this syndrome is the loss of sense in the work done, the feeling of impotence in the face of the decisions that concern us, and, in short, the feeling of not being able to be an actor in his working life. Hence the Government's desire to equip each of our compatriots, through the skills, not only with more effective protection against unemployment and insecurity, but also with a real lever to enable them to choose their professional future. This is the meaning of the Skills Investment Plan, which will, I would remind you, be endowed with EUR 15 billion, and whose effects will be reinforced by the reforms we have launched in the areas of apprenticeship, training and unemployment insurance. We will have an opportunity to discuss this in depth in a few weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Burn-out is a serious and complex phenomenon. It is by giving our citizens the capacity to be fully involved in their working lives, by mobilising the social partners in the company and in the branches, by mobilising expertise, by advancing well-being at work and by fighting this syndrome as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u8	In the general debate, Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u9	Madam President, the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament, the rapporteur, dear François, this Tuesday, the staff of the housing establishments for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – made a strong effort to denounce their working conditions and demand more resources and staff. For today, you see, despite a boundless and testless will, they fail to do their job properly, for the reason that they are not offered the opportunity. While one learns in training that a toilet is carried out in forty minutes, they are asked to make twelve, sometimes fifteen, in one morning. Behind all fiscal policy, behind all statistics or accounting considerations, are human realities. In this case, we see how a fiscal trajectory can lead to abuse, in addition to suffering at work. In EHPADs, as in hospitals, the point of rupture is reached, because the dedication of health professionals knows the limit of any worker, namely their own physical and psychic limit. It is certainly no coincidence that it was first in the medico-social sector that the occupational exhaustion syndrome was discovered in 1975, before it was identified in all other sectors during the 1990s. Because yes, all sectors are involved. No one is spared. Occupational exhaustion is one of the scourges of the world of work, as we know it today. I would obviously be caricatural if I said that work is only suffering, but you would be just as if you were telling us this unlikely pattern of generalized benevolence, virtue and assured development. While technical progress and the tertiarization of the economy have eliminated many difficult tasks, there is still a great deal to do, to which must now be added aggressive managerial practices, the difficulty or even the impossibility of disconnecting, and the absurdities caused by a system based on the competition of all against everyone in all circumstances, and which encourages the least-so-called social.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u10	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u12	If he is no longer the minor of yesterday, the employee on the package preparation platform suffers, too. While an employee of today produces on average four to five times more than an employee in 1980, we cannot resolve the idea that work remains suffering. We commit suicide at work; We're still dying at work. But we can prevent that; We can do otherwise. We could give work its full meaning, and therefore its rightful place in life. We could give him back his role of personal accomplishment. To achieve this, denying the reality of suffering is a bad start. On the contrary, they must be recognized in order to better prevent them. Occupational exhaustion is not a fact dependent on I don't know what supposed individual weakness. Occupational exhaustion is scientifically defined by three criteria: emotional exhaustion, dehumanization – or depersonalization – and decreased sense of accomplishment. Occupational exhaustion is therefore a syndrome, which leads to pathologies such as depression, generalized anxiety or post-traumatic stress. It is a measurable reality, and scientific tools exist, which allow it to be clearly distinguished from a depression of personal origin, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u14	Today, recognition of job exhaustion is possible, but it is a heavy individual approach, which few employees in situations of psychological vulnerability are prepared to lead. This procedure is only allowed before the Regional Committees for the Recognition of Occupational Diseases, and provided that a disability threshold of 25% is reached, which is clearly unsuitable for the situation. After that, the legal and administrative path continues and discourages many victims. Stopping illness for depression or anxiety then becomes the ultimate recourse, and the link with professional activity is not recognized. The result, what is it? While in Belgium, where there is a picture of recognition, there were 83155 cases in 2014 alone, in France, where recognition depends on a complex mechanism, a real journey for the combatant, only 600 cases are recorded each year. It's ridiculous and unmeasurable, you imagine, with what the scientific community and doctors can measure. As a result, it is health insurance that bears the cost of these diseases that are not recognized as being of professional origin: it is therefore the community that pays, instead of the real responsible companies. This should make you the proponents of budgetary rigour! Not likely to be worried, companies are not encouraged to prevent occupational exhaustion, and managerial practices that cause mental disorders continue with impunity. It's not tolerable. It is time to empower those who despise the working conditions of all others, of all those without whom the company would be nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u16	Indeed, what is the enterprise, if not, first, a human collective? Emmanuel Macron says he wants to do a "simplification shock". All right, that's what we offer and that we serve you on a tray! If you do not grasp it, you will demonstrate your real intention: to simplify, yes, but for the powerful and the possessors, even if it is at the cost of a widespread mess for the large number.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u18	There is no "trust bet" or possible liberal bla-bla, when it comes to the health and life of several hundred thousand people. There is no need to rely on the supposed goodwill or virtue. The incentives will never be enough. Strong measures must be taken. Prevention will not happen on its own. The Government can no longer hide behind this argument, at the very moment when the National Research and Safety Institute for the Prevention of Occupational Diseases is strongly threatened by a drastic reduction in its budget and staff, and at the time when the Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – CHSCT – is abolished, with the ordinances relating to work. Our bill is based on the scientific knowledge accumulated over the past forty years. We had dozens of hearings with health professionals, researchers, trade unionists, labour inspectors, lawyers, and even parliamentarians who had already worked on the subject. Our bill therefore consists in introducing a new table of occupational diseases into the social security code in order to make it automatic. We want to create a presumption that the occupational disease is responsible for the organisation of work within the company and reverse the burden of proof: from now on, the employee will no longer have to follow a combatant's path; It will be the responsibility of the company to demonstrate that its business environment is not a risk factor. For the victims, this will ensure fair compensation and recognition for their remission. Indeed, they often perceive their professional exhaustion as an individual weakness, which is an aggravating factor. For the community, this will allow for fair funding, since the daily allowance for the sick will be paid by the occupational accidents/diseases branch of the health insurance, financed by the employer's contributions, and not the sickness branch. For businesses, there is – at last! – a real incentive to strengthen the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Their contribution rate is calculated on the basis of their degree of invalidity, which in turn depends on the number of accidents and occupational diseases occurring within them. They will therefore have a real interest in preventing occupational exhaustion. In order to avoid any additional costs, a virtuous cycle will be committed, as the directorates will have to combat occupational risks effectively and finally adopt a new organization of work. Ladies and gentlemen, our work has been unanimously welcomed by the experts we have heard. They noted the seriousness of our bill, its purpose and its formulation. I know that a majority of Members in this House are sensitive to this issue. I will go even further: I think that a majority of Members sitting in this House could have carried this bill, which may have been defended in other words, but still defended!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u20	However, I also know that this majority – back from the new world that it is supposed to be – has been locked into old political reflexes as soon as it comes to power. Instead of judging the merits of a proposal for a law on its content, it stops at the labelling of the political group that submits it. Clearly, the result is a lowering of the level of parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u21	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u22	Victims of burnout deserve consideration that goes far beyond political postures and cleavages. So let us discuss, debate, cooperate, improve this bill together! I wish you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, not only to reject it on the sole ground that we are the authors of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and on several benches of the NG group]] Rest assured: you will not do it to please us, as Édouard Philippe said of his decision on Notre-Dame-des-Landes when we congratulated him; you will do it for all the sick and the dead of professional exhaustion, as well as the members of their families, many of whom look at us at this very moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u25	How can we not vote on the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u26	Good speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u27	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u28	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law presented today by our colleagues in the La France insoumis Group offers us an opportunity to move forward on an essential subject on which the Communist Members and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left have already had an opportunity to make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u30	This subject is at the heart of the concerns of the world of work. We touch the human there. It is unbearable to ruin his life to gain it! First of all, what is work, if not an act of production and creation, an act of relationship to the world, to humanity and to nature producing value? What a contradiction that the notion of the cost of labour! Employees are too often pressed and pressurized, embedded in the great washing machine of the infernal competition of all against all, of the economic war and the double-digit dividend, or passed to the compressor of the logics of austerity! New management methods and new models of the digital age are creating a modernity that is ill-placed to reproach the past. Everything encourages, as Roland Gori, Bernard Lubat and Charles Silvestre demonstrate in the Manifesto des oeuvres, a "return to work", a renewed respect for the trades and a taste for work well thought out, well done and well considered. For labor, if it were not for the most part imprisoned and put at the service of the accumulation of wealth by some, if it was not so often the place of domination by capital, could fully constitute an act of emancipation! To truly free work by giving power to producers and producers, in their diversity and solidarity, therefore remains a must-have movement and the great task of our time. Of course, in spite of this, one can flourish in the work; One can accomplish it and give it a meaning, of the absence from which one suffers. However, no one can deny that physical and psychological suffering is all too often caused in the context of intensification of tasks, economic change and disruption of the way enterprises are organised. It is therefore up to the law to intervene, because it is the result of contemporary exploitation of occupational diseases which, to be not entirely new, are nevertheless symptomatic of our times. Occupational exhaustion syndrome, better known as burn-out, is one of the forms of suffering at work, which affects an increasing number of employees in our country. For example, in 2014 it was estimated that there were 3.2 million people at high risk of burnout, or 12% of the workforce. For several years, workers' trade unions and labour doctors have been alerting companies and the public authorities about this massive and dramatic reality. This scandal has had to be brought to light by waves of suicides in large companies for the cause of its resorption to advance. The excess of work and pressure leads men and women to collapse. All professions are concerned, self-employed as well as managers and employees, public and private employees. Several studies show that action is very urgent. The fact-finding mission of our former colleagues Gérard Sebaoun and Yves Censi on occupational exhaustion syndrome, whose report was published in February 2017, pointed to the importance of the phenomenon and its causes and shortcomings in its management. Its causes are well-known and well-identified, including management by objectives, failure to organise work, competition of employees, overload of work, lack of professional recognition, pressure and isolation. There is also the fear of losing one's job in a context of endemic unemployment. Far from simply being the result of personal frailties to which it is often attributed, occupational exhaustion is, in most cases, the result of external constraints that inhibit the feeling of duty performed and the work done well. It can cause severe psychological pathologies whose recognition remains at least incomplete. Psychiatrist Christophe Dejours sums up this phenomenon better than anyone: "Individual evaluation, when coupled with objective contracts or management by objectives, when gathered as a result center or as a profit center, leads to widespread competition between agents, even between services in the same company, between subsidiaries, between branches, between workshops, etc. This competition, when associated with the threat of dismissal, leads to a profound transformation of labour relations." Despite some improvements made during the previous legislature, the situation is far from satisfactory. Getting recognition of psychological pathologies with a professional cause is part of the combatant's journey. Two figures are sufficient to demonstrate this: whereas the number of cases occurring each year is estimated to be between 200000 and 400,000, only 10600 people have managed to obtain recognition of the professional origin of their mental disorders. In the absence of care by the occupational health and accident branch, therefore by employers through employers' contributions, it is up to the health insurance – in other words, the community as a whole – to pay compensation for occupational diseases, thus dissolving the social responsibility of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u32	So what is their cost to society? If we do not have precise assessments on this subject, the estimate of the cost of under-reporting of psychological pathologies to several hundred million euros makes consensus. In order to give the order of magnitude, it should be recalled that the annual expenditure of the occupational accidents/diseases branch devoted to the compensation of mental illnesses in 2016 amounted to EUR 230 million for accidents at work, while the expenditure on the compensation of back pain amounts to EUR 1 billion. We know the regulatory constraints preventing full recognition of psychosocial risks as occupational diseases. There are two major obstacles, already mentioned by several of our colleagues. The first results from the exclusion of mental disorders – unlike physical pathologies – from the tables of occupational diseases. However, this entry conditions compensation by the occupational diseases and accidents branch, provided that it has been the subject of a favourable opinion of the Regional Committee for the Recognition of Occupational Diseases. Furthermore, while the Act of 17 August 2015 on social dialogue and employment introduced a parallel procedure called "outside the picture" to recognise these diseases as occupational diseases, it reserves the benefit to employees showing a permanent disability rate of 25%, which is almost impossible in practice. In our view, this bill is an interesting solution for the recognition of occupational exhaustion, by integrating the psychological pathologies that result from it into a specific picture of occupational diseases. In addition, members of our group made a number of similar proposals as part of the review of the 2018 PLFSS. However urgent it may be, such recognition is not enough to address the issue. We share with our colleagues in the La France group, whom I thank for their proposed legislation, the conviction that preventive measures must be combined. The fact-finding mission on burnout syndrome has made many proposals to improve preventive measures that appear to be relevant, such as strengthening the role of occupational doctors and staff representative bodies, improving the training of managers and creating a protected employee status for nurses in charge of monitoring the health status of employees. Unfortunately, these prospects are strongly contradicted by the provisions of the Labour Code Reform Ordinances, including the removal of the CHSCT, which is the essential body for the prevention of occupational risks in the enterprise, the abolition of the penalty account and the reduction of the employer's reclassification obligations in the event of incapacity to work. Instead of making employers accountable and taking the consequences of their legal obligation to achieve results in terms of occupational risks, we are betting on self-regulation. Therefore, occupational health is the great relegation, which we have deplored on many occasions in the debates on the ordinances reforming the Labour Code, because we are concerned about. The case is too serious! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on several benches of the NG group]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have an opportunity to partially redeem you, and we have an opportunity to advance the recognition and management of psychosocial risks caused by the deterioration of working conditions. If it does not completely alter social relations, this bill will also make it possible to improve the meaning given to work, which must be synonymous with social utility, human dignity and emancipation. The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left fully support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u33	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u34	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, burn-out, or burn-out syndrome, has been the subject of intensive scientific work over the last forty years, but not monolithic. In the early 1970s, Dr. Freudenberger formulated the first definition in these terms: "a state of chronic fatigue, depression and frustration brought about by devotion to a cause, a way of life, or a relationship, which fails to produce the rewards expected and ultimately leads to a decrease in the involvement and performance of the work". It has since been the subject of various scientific and sociological approaches. The first clinical studies conducted by Dr. Freudenberger have identified not only professions at risk, but also recurrent symptoms. Subsequently, the studies conducted by Jackson and Maslach moved from simple observation to measurable object through interviews with specialists working with populations in great distress. Their work has resulted in the development of a measurement tool, the Maslach Burnout Inventory, which is still authoritative. The scope of the concept of burn-out has gradually been expanded to include other professions, as its definition has evolved and continues to evolve as our societies and our relationship to work change. What matters to us here is the difficulty of distinguishing the symptoms that most people have, and that can be accentuated if you experience a difficult situation, from diseases that require medical care.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u35	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u36	In psychiatry more than elsewhere, the distinction between a normal or passenger state and a disease is difficult to establish. While the tools I have described briefly and schematically help characterize a burn-out, there is no consensus on this. Moreover, many currents of thought debate the very definition of burn-out. Some authors believe that burn-out exhaustion can occur in a variety of contexts, not just in the context of a professional activity. Its symptoms may occur in several circumstances of personal life, such as a serious illness or the care of children or a person with a disability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u37	You're talking about a discovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u38	Ultimately, exhaustion resulting from chronic stress can occur in all situations that are critical to an individual's life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u39	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u40	The bill that you are presenting, colleagues in the La France Group, is being rejected from these decades of research with a view to creating ex nihilo a new approach, to say the least original and unpublished, to which it is true that few scientists had thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u41	And don't hesitate to insult!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u42	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Instead of burn-out syndrome, you call up three pathologies: depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder – ESPT. This latter concept appeared after the First World War to describe the sequelae of the Poilus. It is characterized by an attack on the physical or psychological integrity of a patient in cases such as violent death, rape, war or attack. You will agree, combining ESPT and professional environment is at least counter-intuitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u43	No, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u44	Similarly, anxiety and depression are often multifactorial and the accountability of these pathologies is necessarily complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u45	Life is multifactorial, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u46	In order to respond to this complexity, the inventory of occupational diseases must be based on a consensus between the administration and a joint body. This dialogue, which is dear to our majority, and which we consider to be the best bulwark against dogmatism, allows employees' and employers' representatives to reach a consensus on the risks associated with the environment and working conditions. Notwithstanding this proven methodology, this bill demonstrates even more audacity, by definitively settling this sterile and endless debate which opposed employers and employees: responsibility is a priori on the employer's side, entrusts the employer to prove the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u47	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] No. Finally, I would like to point out that the working Republic Group is fully invested in these issues. The Minister of Labour and the Minister of Solidarity and Health have given our colleague Charlotte Lecocq a mission of reflection on occupational health, the conclusions of which will inform the debate that will then have, without a priori or dogmatism, with all the stakeholders and the objective lighting of science.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u49	We're saved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u50	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u51	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party decided to include, as the first text of its parliamentary niche, a proposal for a law to recognise as occupational diseases the psychological pathologies resulting from occupational exhaustion. This is an essential subject, because new ways of working can cause such exhaustion. The boundaries between work and personal life are ever more porous. While employees previously remained at their workplace, work is now entering their home during weekends or holidays, due in particular to the new modes of communication. The search for productivity, which is not an evil in itself when it takes into account the well-being of employees, is also one of the causes of exhaustion. That is why we need to find an effective response to this social problem...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u52	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u53	... but it must be rational and legally sound. Laws made under emotion, whatever the subject, are never good, even if their purpose is defensible and laudable. Before we find a solution, we need to put specific words on the problem. We need a precise medical definition of burn-out, with clinical criteria,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u54	Death, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u55	... applicable by doctors, only able to decide on an occupational disease. Before this progress is made, any drawing up of a table or recognition of professional exhaustion will be premature and, ultimately, ineffective for employees. The discussions in the committee made it possible to clarify the purpose of this bill. It is not a question of including burn-out in the tables of occupational diseases, but rather the psychological diseases that result from it: depression, post-traumatic stress, generalized anxiety. We understand that, Mr rapporteur. In fact, there is currently no picture of occupational diseases for any mental illness which makes it possible to assume the link between pathology and work. Although not listed in the tables of occupational diseases, psychological pathologies can be recognised under the supplementary system for the recognition of occupational diseases. As I recall, the Rebsamen Act of 17 August 2015 on social dialogue and employment has also strengthened the scheme by expressly mentioning psychological pathologies as likely to be recognised as diseases of occupational origin. The implementing decree of 7 June 2016 has thus made it possible to improve the medical expertise of the regional committees for the recognition of occupational diseases, including the possibility to use a psychiatrist and to reduce the procedures for the examination of simple cases. We agree that these committees are overloaded, and that the recognition process is complex, so that only 400 to 600 cases win each year. For the time being, we must above all strengthen these regional committees. But it seems to us that the bill is wrong to fight. Whether we talk about burn-out or depression, the problem is the same: psychic diseases are not included in the tables because they are multifactorial, and that pathology is the encounter of personal parameters and professional factors. This is why the systematic nature of the presumption of accountability of pathology at work requires that the picture be drawn up, even if companies retain, of course, a right to challenge. The logic of the 2015 law, which aims to facilitate the recognition of the professional origin of mental illnesses, is the right one: the regional committees for the recognition of occupational diseases are able to establish the link between the disease and the professional environment. On the other hand, and that is where we join you, we cannot be satisfied with the existing one. As I said, the number of recognitions of the professional origin of mental illnesses is surprising. We cannot accept an average of 500 recognitions per year, when the Health Watch Institute estimates the number of burn-out cases in our country every year. Nor can we content ourselves with widening the deficit of the disease branch, when part of the expenditure could be covered by the occupational accidents and diseases branch – AT-MP. Everyone has to take responsibility: it is not up to the national community to take over the consequences of the drifts of certain management modes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u57	This is why it is urgent to renovate the procedure for the recognition of occupational diseases, and to work out of the picture. As the committee has shown, we would like to highlight three strong proposals. First, since it is uncertain and premature to draw up a picture of occupational diseases, it is necessary to improve the functioning of the regional committees for the recognition of occupational diseases and to "deembolize them". They must be supported and given additional resources. We must give them the opportunity to conduct a study on a case-by-case basis, with medical expertise. If regional committees had decent means of investigating cases and could relate them to burnout, there would no longer be any French anomaly. Secondly, it is necessary to experiment, for a limited period of time, with the lowering of the minimum rate of incapacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u59	Currently 25 per cent, this rate is a major obstacle to the recognition of mental illnesses as occupational diseases. We need to lower this rate to 10% and look at what the benefits will be. Of course, this experiment would have far-reaching consequences, since lowering the rate would also be valid for victims of physical illness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u60	You are more left than the members of the Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u61	Finally, it is necessary to assess the social cost of burn-out and related pathologies, and to consider the transfer of these costs to the AT-MP branch. It is about social justice, which is the cornerstone of our system. Indeed, and I assume that it is not for the national solidarity, the disease branch, to pay for the managerial faults of certain companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u63	If the burn-out is of professional origin, it is up to the companies to cover this cost. These proposals are those of the information report by our former colleagues Yves Censi and Gérard Sebaoun on burnout syndrome, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Social Affairs in March 2017. The change of parliament does not necessarily imply a collective parliamentary amnesia. Too often we complain that our reports are not followed by any effect, but, in this case, we ourselves do not know a parliamentary report. Our group is part of a continuity of work: let us value the evaluation work of our assembly! [[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is not enough to hide behind a parliamentary mission to refrain from acting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u65	Very concrete proposals have been made in committee on the assessment of the social cost of burn-out or the status and independence of nurses who belong to the teams of the occupational doctor. Why should we use the majority fact to bad effect on matters which, I believe deeply, bring us all together?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u66	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the FI, GDR and NG groups]] But since you have placed a great deal of emphasis in committee on the leading role of our colleague Charlotte Lecocq's mission on occupational health, we are already proposing that he draw on the work that has already been done and consider these proposals with the utmost seriousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u68	Mrs. Patricia Gallerneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u69	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the serious issue of well-being at work is a matter of concern to all of us, as the various speeches have shown. The current situation reminds us every day of how crucial this issue is. In fact, the strikes that are currently taking place in the EHPADs are, in a way, a new proof of this. In fact, behind the claims concerning the resources allocated to these establishments, another problem is exposed: the working conditions of the staff and their development at work. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is fully aware of these situations of pressure at work, infernal rhythms and ill-being. However, the recognition of the burn-out as provided for in Mr.Ruffin's bill does not seem appropriate. First of all, the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the Minister of Labour have announced a comprehensive reflection on working conditions, behind which we are not "hidden". Ms Buzyn and Ms Pénicaud had initiated consultations on occupational health, and it therefore did not seem appropriate to adopt texts on the subject even before the results and proposals of the various consultations. We have a lot of respect for this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u70	It's a bit of a politician!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u71	Ms. Lecocq, Mr. Naton and Mr. Dupuis have the task of compiling an occupational health record and making proposals. The conclusions of this mission are expected by the end of March – soon – and the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will ensure that these proposals lead to concrete progress in improving the working lives of many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u72	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u73	The timing of this bill is therefore not adequate, and the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers that the results of this consultation should be awaited before again – and correctly – legislating on the subject of well-being at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u74	It's just a matter of timing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u75	It's urgent to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u76	In particular, we will ensure that this consultation takes into account the need to improve the prevention of psychosocial risks in companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u77	We're going to put a brake on immobilism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u78	To do this, we agree that prevention must be intensified at all levels of the company. Indeed, from the employer to the worker, through the manager or the person in charge of human resources, all must receive sufficient information on psychosocial risks at work. Maltreatment at work often involves poor relationships with colleagues or superiors. It is therefore necessary to rethink management in some companies. It is therefore imperative to raise awareness among all actors in the company on the need to maintain or build a healthy working environment. Secondly, with regard to the substance of this bill, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement can only consider that burn-out is not defined in it. Thus, in the light of this text, it seems particularly complex to envisage a uniform interpretation of this professional exhaustion by the medical profession. The intensity of psychic suffering is, in particular, an element that is not envisaged, yet is subject to many controversies. Therefore, although the law aims to treat each situation on the basis of objective criteria and in an equal manner, it seems very unlikely that the drafting of this bill would achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u79	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u80	Moreover, and this is not negligible, the impact on the social security budget could be very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u81	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the other way around! This will lighten the security budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u82	Mr. Ruffin, let the speaker speak, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u83	This is a real unknown. Indeed, no study can reliably determine the number of burn-out cases in France. This is partly due to the lack of a single definition. Some argue that there would be 30,000, others 100,000; You yourself, Mr. Ruffin, have put forward the figure of 400,000 in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u84	Who says better?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u85	All experts agree on this figure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u86	You see it, we bite our tail!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u87	Madam President, you do not have to express your approval or disapproval by gesture!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u88	Mr Ruffin, my gesture simply meant that you could answer later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u89	However, while it is necessary to help these people as best as possible and to find solutions to improve their daily lives, it is not possible for our public finances to take over the burn-out without having been able to define precisely who is the victim of it and who should not be considered as such. On the other hand, in the event that we now recognise burn-out, the logical follow-up to this decision would be a reflection on the sanction to be taken against companies whose employees are suffering from occupational exhaustion. However, the proposed law ignores this issue, while seeking a bias to question the responsibility of employers. We're not fools! The group La France insoumée thus seeks to establish the principle of the systematic responsibility of employers in the event of recognition of a burn-out by an employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u90	Yes, ma'am! Because the head of the company is responsible for what is happening in the company!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u91	Mr Mélenchon, let the Member speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u92	If this is a good feeling, it is, as things stand, very complicated not to consider the legal weaknesses of such a proposal. Thus, evidence of accountability for a person's psychological distress is much more complicated to provide than evidence of accountability for an accident at work, for example. Psychological ill-being rarely has a single source; It should not be forgotten that each person is at the centre of a set of interactions, whether family, friendly or professional. For me, for my group, it is clear that the burn-out is multifactorial. So how, in the absence of a clear and objective definition, can one question a company and forget the outside influences of the world of work on an individual's psychological ill-being? I repeat: there is no precise calculation of the number of burn-outs in France. Therefore, there is a real risk of inflation of the number of referrals to labour councils, and this is to prosecute employers on a basis that is not clearly defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u93	It's called progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u94	So that's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u95	If it is possible for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement to seek to establish the responsibility of certain companies, in particular because of their managerial policy, it seems to us that completely opening up the loopholes of corporate responsibility would be a flight forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u96	That is an argument that we know well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u97	Finally, this bill insists on the burnout of employees. But does the burn-out only concern employees? Are farmers, small traders, liberal professions impermeable to burn-out? We don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u99	And what are you doing to fix it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u100	To convince ourselves of the ill-being of certain people from these professions, it is enough to take the example of our farmers. A farmer dies every three days in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u101	Because of what policies?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u102	This figure shows that psychological distress does not concern only one category of workers, but can affect any active person. That is why we believe that it is a mistake to perceive the ill-being at work only by the prism of the wage earner. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote, despite the seriousness of the matter, against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u104	The boss thanks you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u105	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u106	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in a globalised and digitised world, the great economic upheavals of our century have greatly changed our relationship to work. The competitive pressure, the race for productivity or promotion, the abolition of time and the workplace by the advent of digital tools, have been able to degrade, sometimes significantly, the working conditions of certain employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u107	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u108	They find it increasingly difficult to disconnect themselves from their work and to develop in their daily tasks. New forms of management have sometimes been able to soften the effects of these changes, by inventing new ways of designing the relationship to work, more respectful of the employee and his or her privacy. On the other hand, other managerial practices exacerbated these trends and did not take into account the state of distress in which employees might find themselves. Thus, if the term "burn-out" appears as early as the 1980s, the phenomenon it describes has been growing ever since.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u109	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u110	In fact, this bill merely puts on the agenda a societal problem that is in line with the logical continuity of the many debates that have taken place in this chamber and which have been echoed in several reports. This subject should be approached with caution, which, while it concerns many of our fellow citizens, also questions the relevance of a concept that is difficult to clearly define. Burn-out, commonly referred to as "occupational exhaustion syndrome", suffers from a lack of readability in its medical definition. It seems extremely difficult to describe its reality and to judge its prevalence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u111	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u112	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I would like to take this from the report, dated 23 February 2016, expressing the official position of the National Academy of Medicine: it stresses that "the expansion of the term burn-out is a source of confusion because of the imprecise limits of this reality". The institution therefore does not recognize this syndrome as a disease as such, as the symptoms of burn-out are diverse and cover many elements. The appearance of this syndrome certainly questions the working conditions, but also the psychological sensitivity of the employee and the interaction between his or her working and personal life. If we do not question the stress that can be caused by a particular occupational activity, it is difficult for doctors to assess what results from working conditions and what falls within personal characteristics, on which it is unfortunately difficult to legislate. While it is already difficult to speak of a disease, it is even more complex to call it a "professional". According to the Social Security Code, in order to be recognised as an occupational disease, the associated condition must be essentially and directly caused by the victim's usual work. The establishment of the essential causal link appears from the outset difficult. It therefore seems premature to want to include burn-out in the tables of occupational diseases, which list the diseases covered by the general scheme. Your bill, both in substance and in form, does not seem relevant to us. It testifies to the impossibility of making this syndrome an occupational disease in its own right. You thus outline the creation of a new table of occupational diseases, which has many limitations. In the limited list of work likely to cause these diseases, you mention causes that are subject to broad interpretation. How, for example, medically interpret "bad social relations" or "lack of autonomy in one's work"? The Rebsamen Act already provides for the recognition of burn-out as an occupational disease by means of a supplementary procedure, known as "outside the tables", to be undertaken by the Regional Committee for the Recognition of Occupational Diseases. The special nature of this disease, however, makes it impossible to enrol in the general scheme and requires an assessment on a case-by-case basis by the medical profession, through this device. Beyond health issues, it should be recalled that the bill includes many financial issues, which also deserve our full attention. Its adoption as such would also weaken the employer's legal and economic position. It would thus run counter to the various measures taken since the beginning of this legislature to provide TPEs and SMEs with a secure and stable legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u113	That's not an argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u114	We do not deny the constant state of stress in which certain employees may be subjected to daily pressure in their work and thus face serious psychosocial risks. Nor do we deny that these pressures can be attributed to abusive managerial strategies that run counter to the employer's responsibility to guarantee the safety of its employees and their mental state. However, it must be noted that this bill does not address the problem at its root. Rather than the introduction of curative measures, we are in favour of preventive measures to promote psychological development and to preserve the health of the employee in the workplace. In order to be truly effective, the fight against burn-out should be part of a policy of quality of life at work, which, from a broad perspective, would address the prevention of psychosocial risks while laying the foundations for a better balance between work and personal life. This proposal is also included in the information report on occupational exhaustion syndrome, submitted on 15 February 2017, which set as a priority the need to prevent more effectively the occurrence of work-related suffering. In the light of this report, we promote training for entrepreneurs, particularly SMEs and TPEs, on the protection of the psychological health of their employees. Collective bargaining frameworks on working conditions within enterprises should also be promoted in order to ensure constructive dialogue, under the expertise of the occupational health service. Finally, let us bear in mind that many managers of companies take full responsibility for the health of their employees by proposing, at their scale, effective measures to combat burnout. In addition, awareness of the phenomenon of psychological exhaustion is increasingly the subject of in-depth modules in the training of future managers, for whom physical and mental health at work becomes a strategy of the company in its own right. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] In conclusion, the IUD, Action and Independents Group will not support this bill, which, while it has the merit of reactivating a necessary debate on an important societal problem, does not, in our view, constitute an effective response and does not propose any concrete measures against exhaustion at work as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u115	Zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u116	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u117	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, according to a study by Technologia, carried out in 2014, 3 million people, or 12% of the working population, would be at high risk of burn-out. Occupational exhaustion syndrome, a combination of psychological disorders experienced by workers in a harmful work environment, affects all sectors of activity, both private and public. Occupational exhaustion syndrome, characterized by over-engagement at work and subsequent collapse, affects health workers and also the security forces: recent mobilizations in the national police, residential institutions for dependent elderly people and public hospitals are a demonstration of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u118	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u119	It affects workers, managers, farmers, doctors, teachers, SME managers, artisans, employees, Lidl employees – whom I greet. Risk factors for burn-out are known; They have been identified by many scientific reports. These include certain forms of management and organisation of work, pressure, competition for employees, isolation, overload of work, lack of professional recognition and the removal of the boundaries between professional and private life. Symptoms are also known: anxiety, sleep disorders or chronic digestive disorders, fatigue, hypertension. The issue of burn-out syndrome is not new. In the late 2000s, the crises caused by suicides at France Télécom and Renault led to a salutary awareness. We are a number here who have been working on the subject for many years, including Minister Muriel Pénicaud, who did not find it useful to be present in the House this morning – which I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u120	Yes, it's abnormal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u121	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u122	The National Assembly, and the Social Affairs Committee within it, has always been at the forefront of the fight for better recognition of the burn-out. In 2011, under the presidency of Marisol Touraine, an information mission was set up on psychosocial risks at work, of which Francis Vercamer and I were members. Then, in 2014, thirty MPs signed the 10000 call with trade unionists, a collective of occupational doctors and occupational health specialists, such as Jean-Claude Delgenes, for a better recognition of burn-out. In August 2015, a first legislative step was taken with the adoption of the Social Dialogue and Employment Act. We then wrote for the first time in the law that "[t]he psychic pathologies can be recognized as diseases of occupational origin. In February 2016, the Socialist Group tabled a first bill, at the initiative of Benoît Hamon, for a better recognition of the burn-out. Finally, in February 2017, our former colleague Gérard Sebaoun, on behalf of a parliamentary mission of the Committee on Social Affairs chaired by Yves Censi on burnout syndrome, presented the conclusions of his report, which were adopted unanimously. The New Left Group supports all parliamentary initiatives to facilitate the recognition of occupational exhaustion syndrome as an occupational disease. I therefore thank the La France group, and in particular our colleagues François Ruffin and Adrien Quatennens, for placing this bill on the agenda of our debates, which we support. However, we diverge slightly as to how to achieve a better recognition of burn-out. The draft law provides for the inclusion in the law of a new table of occupational diseases, which it seems very difficult to achieve in the immediate future. In fact, to date, only Denmark has included post-traumatic stress disorder in its table of occupational diseases in 2005 – I would like to remind Mrs Janvier that the military are also professionals. It should be noted that, in our country, other multifactorial diseases have already been integrated, such as lung cancer due to asbestos exposure. In addition to the regulatory power of these provisions, the evolution of the tables depends on a discussion between the administration and a committee specialising in occupational pathologies within the Council for the Guidance of Working Conditions. It requires an agreement between the social partners. However, we know that employers are fiercely hostile to the recognition of burn-out. In order to move forward concretely and more quickly, we propose that the supplementary recognition procedure be modified, apart from the table. This procedure allows employees to file recognition dossiers before the regional committees for the recognition of occupational diseases, but we consider that the latter apply too restrictive criteria. The vast majority of cases are not even examined and are dismissed ex officio. The regional committees demand that the employee have a permanent partial disability rate of 25%, which is considerable. Psychiatric diseases cannot enter this framework and the committees accept 600 cases per year, whereas 20,000 cases are now diagnosed in Belgium. Some 10000 cases of burn-out are thus recognised, in a misguided manner, as accidents at work, so that the burn-out leads to traditional sickness breaks, which are financially covered by the sickness insurance, which is financed by all, whereas they should be compensated by the occupational accidents and diseases branch, financed by employers' contributions, which would be a means to empower them and to encourage them to better prevent them. The processing of cases and their conditions of admissibility vary according to the territory. The Île-de-France Regional Committee states that it rejects half of the psychiatric recognition files submitted to it, as the rate of permanent partial disability is below the statutory threshold. In one of its reports, the Commission assesses the actual cost of underreporting of accidents at work and occupational diseases for the sickness branch, and notes that there is a marked disparity in the treatment of the funds in their practices of recognition and fixing of this rate of incapacity. We therefore propose to experiment with lowering the permanent disability threshold from 25% to 10%. Indeed, most cases of depression and burnout with rates between 12% and 15%, the majority of cases of mental disorders could be declared admissible and examined. I would point out that in Sweden this threshold was simply removed. This morning, I heard the words "complexity", "interaction" and "multifactorial". Christophe Castaner even referred to the "moving contours" of occupational exhaustion syndrome, which is a sign of a certain chilliness,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u123	A certain reality too!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u124	... especially in some of our ranks and especially in those of the majority. These are the very words used, together with those of the "gas factory", an employer organization opposed, for ideological reasons, to the recognition of hardness at work. As a result, the prevention and penitibility account is now severely degraded, especially for chemical risk. I think it's good to call him back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u125	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u126	We hope that future parliamentary work can lead to concrete progress, building on everything that has been done for almost eight years thanks to the joint work of the majority and the opposition, as did the amendment advocated by MM. Dino Cinieri and Stéphane Viry, unanimously adopted in committee, which would have allowed us to better assess the social cost of occupational exhaustion syndrome and were in line with the proposals of the Sebaoun report. In the same vein, we wish, more broadly, to rethink the prevention of psychosocial risks in a broader policy of promoting the quality of life at work. Psychosocial risks should be subject to an annual obligation to negotiate in the company, in the context of collective bargaining on equality between women and men and on the quality of life at work. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, the legislator is far behind society. In a few months, treatment centres for patients with burn-out will open in some cities, including Villeurbanne. Patients will be taken care of by day, with the agreement and funding of the Regional Health Agency, while psychic pathologies are very little recognized in our system, now completely inadequate and Malthusian. The debate must continue. That is why, in the continuation of the text proposed by the Group of the European People's Party, the New Left Group will shortly be submitting a new proposal for a law aimed at experimenting with the reduction of the disability rate from 25% to 10%. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] Our group will oppose the motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, a vexatious and unjustifiable measure which will immediately put an end to the debate and prevent the various amendments proposed by the political groups from being examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u127	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u128	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "Don't take life too seriously, you won't get out alive! In the 1970s and 1980s, Freudenberger finished his work entitled Occupational exhaustion: the internal burn, devoted to burn-out, this evil of the 21st century that this bill invites us to recognize as an occupational disease. The initiative of this bill is commendable, in that it raises the problem of the reality of burn-out among many of our fellow citizens. This is the rest of the plan of a bill to question us, to bring us to the debate and to allow us to discuss the daily problems of French and French people. However, if a bill is to ask questions, a passed law must provide answers, and it must be noted that it raises many questions without ever providing answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u129	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u130	We are far from the fine unanimity that usually characterizes laws affecting human and health, these laws bearing a trans-party consensus because they challenge us all in what we have dearest in us: our soul. This soul, this self and the image of this self that we refer to is perhaps, in the end, the key to the understanding of burn-out according to Freudenberger, the key that exculpates it in fact from a professional origin. Indeed, our personal development under societal pressure often limits the Grail to more inaccessible than to an achievable goal. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] "At heart valiant, nothing impossible": this is the very example of a sentence that underlies the anxiety of the non-realization of self and the lack of personal development, because our societies are structured around professional success. This implies that under no circumstances should work be stigmatized as being responsible for the evil of our modern world. On the contrary, it must be valued by a benevolent society, as we have been doing for six months in our majority. The origin of evil is not work, but rather social failure, experienced as a true cutlet in the emancipation of each. Our Assembly must therefore continue its work in order to bring our citizens to a change in their attitudes towards a positive approach to valuing the assets of our society. Moreover, if its origin is not purely occupational, is exhaustion syndrome a disease? Again, a law cannot be approximate. However, a syndrome is not a disease: it corresponds to a set of signs and symptoms that are characterized by a deviation from the norm. This does not make it a disease in its own right, because it is impossible for us to achieve a precise nosographic classification of the manifestations and causes of burn-out. In addition, a burn-out is indefinite and no treatment is described or validated, as it is not a disease. In the end, burn-out cannot therefore be categorised as a disease, nor can it proceed from a professional cause. The bill therefore seems to me to be obsolete.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u131	Move, there's nothing to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u132	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Certainly, and to echo the beginning of my speech, the burn-out exists and develops every day a little more. We were able to see this on these benches: some hoped for national or even international careers, built on a stature of Líder Máximo of the opposition. Finally, the non-realization of the hoped-for destiny leads to a devalorization of self and the entry into an occupational exhaustion syndrome that creates isolation and irritability.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u133	A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u134	Who do you think you are?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u135	This contempt is aimed less at Mr Mélenchon – we don't care! – that the 400,000 employees who suffer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u136	We're not here to get insulted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u137	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This infernal spiral, inextricable, ill-defined and unattainable to treatments inevitably reflects the evil of the last century: back pains which, like burn-out, have multiple origins, intrigued causes, variable durations and undetermined treatments. [[Long exclamations on the FI benches and on several REM benches]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, as many as they are, these back pains have never been proposed, let alone recognized, as occupational diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u138	Explain that to the employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u139	Use your brain, if you have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u140	[[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, please let the speaker speak. We hear nothing and understand nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u141	We don't have the right to insult a parliamentarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u142	You're always insulting us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u143	Mr. Corbière, please! [[Same movements]] Mr. Borowczyk, please proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u144	It's a serious subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u145	The rules of our assembly do not allow only one of us to invective the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u146	You're always insulting us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u147	Please let the speaker finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u148	So I'm cutting it off. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, the recognition of occupational exhaustion syndrome in the tables of occupational diseases seems to me to be totally impossible, for the reasons mentioned above. So let us not overestimate our intrinsic ability to legislate, for it often leads to burn-out and, as Louis Aragon summed up, "who has the taste of the absolute thereby renounces all happiness."
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u149	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u150	Madam President, we have suffered an assault that we believe we do not deserve. The subject is serious and excludes personal attacks, including those aimed at me, although I am used to them. We felt a great emotion. I therefore ask for a suspension of the sitting in order to consult my group on the action we intend to take on the insults that have been made against us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u151	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u152	The meeting was resumed. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u153	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time in our committee that we have discussed these psychological pathologies following a burn-out syndrome, more commonly called burn-out. The fact that we are now led to come back to this subject on the occasion of the examination of a bill which the group La France insoumée chose to include in its parliamentary niche, demonstrates, if necessary, the full importance of this subject; a subject that affects all layers of our society; a subject that affects all occupational categories; a subject that affects all age groups and occupations. The current situation is also regularly echoed by the tragedies occurring in many companies, whether public or private, in areas as varied as agriculture, which continues to suffer from a very serious crisis, public hospitals or medical and social institutions. This illustrates a very great malaise, to which I have repeatedly drawn the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health. That is the importance of the subject we are dealing with today: a disease not recognized as an occupational disease. I finally understood, following our discussions in committee, that this is not what you proposed to us today, Mr rapporteur. However, this morning, on a large media channel, Mr. Mélenchon still held this proposal as "recognition of burn-out as an occupational disease". Recognize that all this is not very clear! We therefore agree: your proposal is intended to include in the table of occupational diseases of the general and agricultural systems of the Social Security the psychological pathologies following an occupational exhaustion syndrome. Yes, Mr rapporteur, I am convinced of the importance of this subject. Yes, I am convinced that we still need to work to find the best solutions to better integrate burn-out into our social protection system. It is, as far as I am concerned, a daily reality. But I am also convinced that the solutions proposed do not respond to an extremely complex problem, as it may have different origins, conjugation of a multitude of origins and triggering factors. That's what I want to try to show you. First of all, Mr rapporteur, I find it surprising that, while you acknowledge that occupational exhaustion syndrome and the resulting psychological pathologies affect all categories of workers, regardless of their hierarchical position, you stated, on page 9 of your report: "This report focuses on the wage-earning world and does not account for burn-outs among the self-employed, artisans, traders, farmers, small employers. For my part, I believe that the work on this disease must take into account all the assets as a whole, looking for all the factors that could prevent the disease from occurring. Big fight, you'll tell me! However, there have been some suggestions in the Censi-Sebaoun report, which deserve us to look at them. Without being exhaustive, two examples could be retained, which I believe are at least partially likely to avoid burn-out. First of all, I am thinking of improving the training of managers, who must be made aware of and trained in good management practices from the outset. Another solution would be to improve the training and information of the bodies representing staff and occupational doctors or, at least, what is left of them. The earlier the difficulties are taken, the lower the risk to the worker. Instead, so that the professional character of the disease can be recognized, you propose that the work performed should be included in the limited list of work likely to cause the disease, a list described in your Article 1. Yves Censi and Gérard Sebaoun, in their conclusion, in 2017, acknowledged the difficulty of such a process. It is indeed to forget the diversity of the origins of the disease which, in most cases, is linked to a combination of personal and professional difficulties, even if I do not underestimate the importance of professional difficulties in the occurrence of the disease. Furthermore, to date, no State or scientific body has agreed to integrate mental illnesses into the occupational disease table, because it is impossible to objectively establish a threshold of tolerance to a working environment. Yes, rapporteur, recognition of harassment at work is a justice measure for the victim. Yes, recognition of discriminatory behaviour is a measure of justice for the victim. But the recognition of burn-out and the resulting pathologies is a measure of public health; the recognition of an occupational disease is a medical and scientific approach requiring quantifiable data. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To your proposal, we prefer to take up the work of the Censi-Sebaoun report, which proposes to experiment with the lowering of the minimum rate of permanent incapacity for work in order to claim recognition and to launch a work to assess the social cost of the burn-out currently borne by the disease branch.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u154	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u155	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the recognition as an occupational disease of the psychological pathologies resulting from occupational exhaustion, grouped into the more concise anglicism of burn-out. I welcome this avant-garde approach by my colleagues Quatennens and Ruffin, drawing the attention of the people's representatives to the need to confront this multifaceted and difficult-to-understand scourge. This bill has the merit of prompting debate and raising questions about burn-out as a phenomenon. Although I am a doctor, I do not wish to enter into the scientific considerations relating to the characterization of burn-out as a pathology of the individual, because burn-out is above all the pathology of a society: it is the social phenomenon that must alert us to the way in which we view and tame our relationship to work. Work is one of the primary places of human development, which regulates the relationship between an individual and society. But the work that humanizes, the work that makes it possible to socialize and build itself is, alas, the work that annihilates, the work that enslaves and destroys our fellowmen. As noted in the Penicaud, Lachmann and Larose report of 2010, work has gradually replaced the vacuum left by the atrophy of the intermediate bodies of society, supposed to create the social ties that protect the individual, prevent his or her precarization and offer him or her the conditions necessary for his or her emancipation. Industrial work, with its infernal cadence that Chaplin denounces in modern times, was a physical pathology that made the workers' bodies deformed. The burn-out manifests itself as a new post-modern form of this enslavement. She's no longer physical: she's psychic. Burn-out marks the perverse internalization of exploitation, which even affects the mental health of executives. The burn-out reveals the absurdity of our system, which turns against the very privileged for whose benefit this system works. What disease is he the symptom of? A system based on the materialistic religion of rapid gain, unable to satisfy itself with the resources of the planet. A ferocious cult of profitability, which devotes to the stake of hourly productivity the least free time, with the passive complicity of technology. The lack of recognition, the shortcomings of management training, the difficulty in taking the time to listen to the employee induce daily suffering at work, which is one of the causes of burn-out. But there are other more global factors, and the legislator must put a stop to this flight forward, to this blindness to the disaster which is certainly affecting the young dynamic framework – we are willing to talk about it – but which, in silence, destroys the poor from within. The burn-out being only the psychic interiorization by the folding employee under the clock of the physical exhaustion of the folding worker under the machine, I would like to deliver you some lines of the philosopher Simone Weil, who had married the working-class condition to the point of consuming his health, then his life. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] "It is true that when one is poor and dependent, one always has as a resource, if one has a strong soul, courage and indifference to suffering and deprivation. It was the resource of the Stoic slaves. But this resource is forbidden to the slaves of modern industry because they live from a work for which, given the mechanical succession of movements and the speed of the pace, there can be no other stimulant than the fear and the bait of the money. To remove these two feelings by means of stoicism in itself is to get out of order to work at the required pace. The simplest then, to suffer as little as possible, is to lower his whole soul to the level of these two feelings; But it's getting worse. If one wants to preserve one's dignity in his own eyes, one must condemn oneself to daily struggles with oneself, to perpetual tearing, to a perpetual feeling of humiliation, to exhausting moral suffering; For we must constantly fall down in order to meet the demands of industrial production, rise up in order not to lose our own esteem, and so on. This is what is horrifying in the modern form of social oppression; and the goodness or brutality of a leader cannot change much in it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u156	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u157	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, recognizing burn-out as an occupational disease is a real political subject, in the etymological sense of the word, that is to say, it concerns the organisation of citizens' lives. Insurmountable demand, lack of autonomy in his work, bad social relations, bad relations at work, conflicts of values, prevented work, hierarchical pressure, insecurity of employment, individual commitment pushed to the extreme, emotional overinvestment: we are led to know each of these situations, because a relative has experienced it, because we have lived it or because we are afraid to live it – and each one of them can lead to a burn-out. The philosopher Pascal Chabot speaks of a fire of the self caused by a consumerist, family and social professional system that washes us and makes us lose faith in our actions. Burn-out is not a characterized disease: it is a syndromic complex leading to psychological and somatic disorders. Although it is a pathology of work, is it not a pathology of civilization?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u159	We must ask ourselves how best we must fight against this fire of the body and the spirit. The provision proposed by our colleague François Ruffin does not seem entirely satisfactory to us because it does not respond effectively to this issue. However, this bill asks about this social tragedy. The number of burn-out victims is increasing and we have not yet managed to respond collectively to this difficulty. In the previous legislature, the subject has come back repeatedly in the debates and has even been the subject of a fact-finding mission. Great progress: in 2015, the legislator had included in the Social Security Code the possibility of recognizing psychological pathology as an occupational disease. However, the inclusion in the table of occupational diseases could not be effective due to the lack of consensus, either on the part of the medical community or on the part of the social partners, even though it is necessary to do so. We still have to carry out extensive research and evaluation work, but in the meantime, what can we propose? It is likely that a larger number of burn-out victims could claim recognition of their pathology as an occupational disease. To this end, some colleagues suggest that the rate of permanent incapacity for recognition be lowered from 25% to 10%. Should we not instead review the disability assessment grid so that it is better adapted to the psychic pathology? Above all, it is our duty to do prevention. Not only do we need to work on improving well-being at work, but we also need to be able to identify early signs of a transition to disease. This objective of prevention of psychosocial risks is included in the third occupational health plan 2016-2020. The High Health Authority issued a report in spring 2017 to improve knowledge of burn-out syndrome and to develop operational materials and recommendations for good practice for occupational physicians, general practitioners and other health professionals. This work must continue with the social partners in order to find reasonable and appropriate solutions. It must be done with a strong corporate commitment to social, societal and environmental responsibility. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the introduction, this proposal raises very broad issues which we must look at with clarity. This "fire" cannot be seen in itself as an individual problem. Not looking beyond that would mean depriving ourselves of a question that we must ask ourselves about our collective behaviour. Burn-out is a disease of postmodern societies that raises the question of our relationship with work, the definition of success, personal development and happiness. We are all experiencing an acceleration of time and rhythms and, above all, the extension of stress in all areas of life. Politologist Zaki Laidi tells us that this contraction of time has created a man-present, with no point of view. What is a man without a point of view? A being deprived of a symbolic distance between his being and the world and whose condition of being is linked to his individual singularity. This man-present lives in a requirement of excellence that drives him to overinvestment in all aspects of his existence: the infernal rhythms do not only concern work but also leisure, which must be multiplied, and the schedules of vacation time, which must be optimised. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The social environment in a world of stress and overinvestment must question us. We are sometimes far from the emancipation and freedom that we believe we have gained through technological advances. Of course, we must work together on the issue of burn-out, but we cannot save on a broader reflection on the individual demands of our civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u160	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u161	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law that we are considering aims at making the pathologies resulting from burn-out recognised as occupational diseases. In doing so, it should be noted that it circumvents one of the main difficulties, one of the essential elements, it has been said: the definition of what is professional exhaustion. In this respect, if one point is unanimous, it is the difficulty in identifying, defining and delimiting the contours of professional exhaustion. The burn-out consists of a multitude of elements that trigger or accentuate pathologies. In your bill, you have identified depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress, but the list is far from exhaustive and one cannot forget the eating, physical, behavioural or "motivational" disorders that may characterize it. The list is unfortunately much longer, and this is one of the first shortcomings of this bill. The fact that there are no mental illnesses on the table of occupational diseases today is because it is risky to look for any automaticity that would objectiveise these pathologies – hence the importance of the casuistic approach used today by the complementary recognition procedure, which is better able to guarantee legal certainty for both the employer and the sick employee. If I address the issue of legal certainty, it is also to bring a different perspective than that discussed earlier, because we now have in our law a number of elements of protection for employees and, above all, to sanction employers whose misconduct can lead to a burn-out situation – which I have been able to verify in my professional practice. In particular, I remember a young consultant whose missions went far beyond what she was able to absorb both physically and psychologically, and who had reached such a level of accumulation of stress and anxiety that she finally resigned overnight, without notice, by sending an email to the thousands of employees in her company, to Defence. She was in a burn-out situation. Of course, in such cases, the Board of Prud'hommes reclassifies these resignations as an act of rupture to the exclusive wrongs of the employer. The victim was compensated and received more than a year and a half of salary. Thanks to this compensation, she was able to rebuild herself calmly before returning to the labour market. I also remember another client, whose job title did not correspond to the reality of the missions, so that she suffered not only a lack of professional recognition, but also frequent changes in team, management; She was swept away from one service to another, sometimes in hyperactivity, other times put in the closet. It lasted for years, until this woman had a depression, a total disability was pronounced, and she was dismissed for that reason. Here again, our right is to recall that, when an occupational break-up results from a burn-out, the fault lies with the employer who has failed to fulfil his obligation of health and safety towards his employee and therefore has to compensate him – in this case, it was for eighteen months. But there are also more complex situations. I am thinking, in particular, of this man, who was over-engaged, who put a lot of heart at work and a lot of energy in everything he did. In the same year, he became a father and obtained a professional promotion. Due to too many responsibilities, commitments, stress, he is still in depression today, while he is arrested because of burn-out. Can one objectiveize his case and refer to the table proposed in the bill? Is this burn-out the result of a fault of the employer, of the associative life he led, of the newborn he had? The casuistic approach of the complementary recognition procedure is the most appropriate for dealing with these psychic pathologies. This is all the more true when we look in detail at the list of works and behaviours that you list in this bill. I only note that moral harassment is not a cause of a burn-out and cannot be considered as an element causing an occupational disease. Moral harassment is self-reliant and must be firmly punished as such. This is an important element to remember. Nor would I say that our right is perfect in this matter. We recalled that a report will be submitted in April to better understand the situation of burnout. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, as the minister said earlier, we will soon decide on an important element of transformation of our social model: the opening of unemployment insurance to resignations. This is also an important element of protection for those suffering from burn-out. They must be allowed to leave before reaching this point of no return, while knowing that the State guarantees them a safety net in order to better rebuild and react.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u162	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u163	Karl Kraus said that the closer you look at a word, the farther he looks at you. This is a little the method you chose when wondering what the definition of burn-out is – is this or that? – and claiming that the contours of this notion are moving, floating. You also evoke personal reasons, multifactorial motives. Consensus or unanimity would be necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same movements]] First of all, I would like to point out that there is nothing, that no inclusion in the table of occupational diseases has been effective as a result of consensus or unanimity. Silicosis was included after a struggle. The employers objected first – this boss who always has voice carriers in this House. As far as asbestos is concerned, the employers have been holding up the four irons for decades, again with their support in the governments and in this House. The same was true for lead-related diseases. Every time, what did we hear? It's multifactorial! What is the hygiene of employees? Not all react in the same way. This argument of the multifactorial, we hear it constantly! Low back pain, for example, appears in the table of occupational diseases, but it can be explained by the heavy loads that an employee carries during his work as well as by Sunday tennis!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u164	That's bullshit...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u165	However, back pain is well in the picture of occupational diseases! I'm telling you, there's a fight going on! A hundred times on the job Penelope has handed over his work! The struggle is reports, such as that of Mr Sebaoun, proposals, such as that of Mr Hamon or, today, the one we are defending with the La France group, which is incontrovertible! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I note that only employers' organisations have refused to attend our hearings. Of course, we never thought that it would be easy to charge the boss, that our fight would be easy and that we would win today. This inclusion in the table of occupational diseases, like everything else, will result from a balance of power, which is more in the long term. Mr Castaner, you cited Muriel Pénicaud's report on well-being and efficiency at work to Prime Minister François Fillon in 2010. I regret the absence of Muriel Pénicaud when he is primarily interested in this question. Our debate would probably have been nourished! I spoke earlier about neglect in society: I consider the manner in which this case is being dealt with this morning to be negligence on the part of the Government. Without disobliging you, Mr. Castaner, I would like to remind you that it was last night that you learned that you should defend the Government's position on this issue. However, when there are about 400,000 work-related mental disorders a year, I find this a negligent way of dealing with, not me – I don't care –, not the House, but this social problem. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I read Muriel Pénicaud's report. What is the first proposal? It states that "the involvement of the Directorate-General and its Board of Directors is indispensable". Muriel Pénicaud wrote it! But what happens when management is not involved? Why, by the way, would she? What would be his interest today? The love of humanity? We know that it is philanthropy and not the rate of profit that motivates the decisions that are made daily by shareholders in companies! It is therefore necessary to interest the management of companies and the boards of directors in order to ensure that this involvement is indeed indispensable! Precisely, it is the whole objective of our bill, which is preventive because incentive: punishment is a prevention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u166	It's the only language they understand: money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u167	[[Vif applause on the benches of the FI group]] I ask you, how will you convert the big bosses? Do you have a special voodoo? Will you go to social dialogue, take into consideration the human factor, will you work to improve corporate social responsibility with incantations? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have disappointed me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u168	It's mutual.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u169	Yes, it's still possible! I did not expect a miracle, the adoption of my proposal, the immediate recognition of work-related mental disorders, no! But I was thinking that on such a fundamental issue, you, the majority, the Government, would propose at least one or more counter-proposals, one or more measures to be implemented immediately. We have heard this from the Socialist Party and the Republicans. I agree with them: lowering the threshold in order to go through this first stage, assessing the cost of mental illnesses... [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You came here empty-handed. All you have to propose to us is a mission that will produce a report from which perhaps an idea will emerge in the context of a global reflection which, in the uncertain future, can be expected to lead to a text discussed in the House. We know from Clemenceau, missions are the best way to bury problems. That's how you work, saying the calendar isn't right. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With you, it's always double standards. When it comes to removing wealth tax for shareholders, you know how! And as a matter of urgency! And without demanding reports and missions! When it comes to abolishing workers' wages and salaries – the same employees, some of whom come to the end of the mental roll – it is the same: neither reports nor commissions are necessary. When it comes to removing CHSCTs, those bodies that protected workers a minimum, that could launch alerts, you act first, erasing decades of social history, and then you think. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] However, as soon as it comes to providing a guarantee to an employee or recognition to victims, it is necessary to meditate at length, to multiply reports and to ensure consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u170	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u171	It may make you uncomfortable, but it's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u172	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I said earlier how the public authorities were complicit in the death management, complicit in their passivity. The urgency that you put to wait, proposing a mission that will perhaps make something like this, such a position, I tell you, is the mark of your complicity with a management that produces hundreds of thousands of mental disorders every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u173	Deliberately! They're learning that in their schools!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u174	We are going to turn to your motion of rejection. How could the idea of putting forward a motion of rejection on such a topic come to mind?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u175	It is your proposal that is rejected, not the theme!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u176	You are not the beacon of Western thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u177	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Without wishing to provoke Mr Castaner, I would like to point out that Édouard Philippe said, not far from my seat as rapporteur, that we must not criticise successful companies. This position of the majority displeases me. On the contrary! Successful companies must be criticized when they undermine the health of their employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u178	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République en route a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u179	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank you, Mr Ruffin, for bringing the subject of burn-out to light in our parliamentary work. As was pointed out in the general discussion, the term "burn-out" is a moving concept, subject to much research and several definitions that are not unanimous. It characterizes the status of an employee in exhaustion and covers a wide variety of situations experienced by workers, all of which have a more or less direct relation to their professional activity. As such, the medical community describes him as a syndrome that can lead to the employee's shift into depression or any other form of pathology. To date, its definition has not been fixed. I would also like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for reminding us of the importance of this syndrome at a time when health insurance is presenting its annual report "Health at work: issues and actions" and publishing figures that are eloquent and that we have recalled in the general discussion. In 2016, 10,000 work-related mental illnesses were reported. By psychological ailments, I mean: psychosocial risks, which can be induced by the occupational activity itself or generated by the organization of work and labour relations; psychosocial disorders whose origin is directly related to the professional context and of which burn-out is part. These mental disorders account for 1.6% of work-related accidents with stoppages in 2016. It is therefore important to take action on this matter – we agree with you on this point. I would also like to point out that women are most vulnerable to mental illness, since they account for 60% of cases. This, of course, does not imply a characteristic intrinsically related to their gender, but it invites us to reflect on other issues and to remain vigilant on other issues, particularly with regard to the progressive erasure of the boundaries between work and private life, but more generally the status of women in employment. It was important to make progress on those issues, while the Government had made equality between women and men the major cause of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u180	And equal pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u181	I am particularly sensitive to this, and this is one of the major issues that we are addressing, together with my colleague Gilles Lurton, as part of our parliamentary fact-finding mission on family policy. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Furthermore, I would also like to recall the mobilisation of the majority within the framework of the ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue in favour of telework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u182	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u183	Beyond figures and statistics, it is individuals, women and men who are upset and broken by mental disorders. In fact, I think I can say that each of us has experienced people in his or her surroundings or in his or her place of work facing such situations. I am convinced that our task is to enable every employee to find a source of professional development and to lead his or her private life calmly. It is in this sense that we are determined to act to improve health at work, as others have done before, in particular by introducing the right to disconnect. All this shows us that the question arises in terms of prevention and support for the employee and not only under the prism of a particular nomenclature. The main purpose of your bill is to create a picture of occupational diseases allowing for the recognition of burn-out in the sense of "psychological pathologies resulting from occupational exhaustion", as the title of your bill indicates, even though I have noted that you have tabled an amendment in committee to amend your title, which, by the way, does not facilitate the clarity of our discussions. Essentially, it is the indefinable and multifactorial nature of burn-out syndrome that impedes its inclusion in the occupational disease table. Indeed, it is its singularity that calls for individualised treatment and reparation for each person concerned. It is also in this sense that it is possible to recognise the professional character of a disease not mentioned in a table but directly attributable to the professional activity of the victim, since the Act of 27 January 1993. In the same context and logic, since the Law on Social Dialogue and Employment, known as the Rebsamen Law of 2015, it is possible to recognize psychic pathologies as diseases of off-the-shelf occupational origin. In this case, the victim's file shall be submitted to a regional committee for the recognition of occupational diseases, which shall decide individually on the existence of a link between the disease and the occupational activity. It is a college of practitioners working on the recognition of a psychic pathology. If this recognition is conditional on a partial permanent disability of at least 25%, since 2012, the health insurance funds have been asked to interpret this threshold of the disability rate flexibly in order to set a predictable rate at the date of the application for recognition, without requiring that the victim's condition be stabilized. Moreover, since the implementing decree of 7 June 2016, the medical expertise of the C2RMPs has been strengthened by the possibility of involving psychiatrists in the various phases of the recognition procedure. Thus, in 2016, it was almost 600 cases of recognized psychiatric pathologies in occupational disease that were recorded – seven times as many as in previous years – and not 200, as you mentioned, rapporteur, in the explanatory memorandum to your bill, before correcting this figure in committee and in the general discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the evolution of the tables of occupational diseases. They are, as you know, the result of a consultation between the social partners in the Working Conditions Guidance Board. Beyond the fact that the subject of your bill is a matter of regulation and not a matter of legislation, you ask us to legislate in disregard of social dialogue, and that is where a real line of fracture between you and us emerges. Already last September, La France insoumise reproached the trade unions, and therefore the workers, for weakening its political struggle by not throwing itself on the streets to its appeal against our bill to modernise social dialogue. With this proposal, the message becomes clear: for France, when trade union organisations do not follow, the law must prevail on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u184	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u185	[[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the FI group]] We do not share this approach! You know how early we are in social dialogue; However, on this and many other issues, consensus and consultation are essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u186	It's Radio MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u187	Legislating without social dialogue, as you ask, would be legislating in coercion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u188	Tell us about the ordinances!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u189	This would be neither effective nor understood nor consistent with the work of the Assembly and the majority since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u190	Let him go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u191	On the other hand, I would like to recall that the merger of the representative bodies which we voted in the framework of the ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u192	The weakening of employee protection!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u193	... allows staff representatives and trade unions to have two visions, contrary to what you are telling us: an overall vision that allows us to understand the working environment and its factors of psychic affection, while at the same time putting in place a more favourable balance of power for employees vis-à-vis their employer, thanks to an exchange that is no longer dispersed between the different bodies representing the staff – the IRPs – but grouped within the Social and Economic Committee – the CSE; an individualised vision thanks to the maintenance of the competences of the CHSCT in the CSE, but above all thanks to new rights in training employee representatives on occupational health and company management. This better training is an additional means of detecting the factors of psychosocial disorders and the cases of employees who suffer from them, and of acting more quickly in the collective interest. These additional rights are essential tools to improve the care of the employee, in order to ensure maximum prevention without relying on the remedial aspect. In this connection, Mr rapporteur, you will not contradict me if I say that the main expectation which emerges from the testimonies of people suffering from burn-out syndrome is not the stoppage of work or the repair, which takes place too late, after the drama, but the modification of working conditions and the removal of the factors that trigger this unbearable malady to allow a continuation in professional activity. That is precisely the meaning of our approach beyond the elements mentioned above. It is in this context that I want to highlight the application of the third occupational health plan 2016-2020, which is also negotiated by the social partners and which aims to prevent psychosocial risks with specific action on occupational exhaustion. Moreover, because both the executive government and the parliamentary majority are mobilized to promote the quality of life at work, our colleague Charlotte Lecocq has been entrusted by the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, and the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, a parliamentary mission on the issue of occupational health. The priority of this parliamentary mission led by our colleague, Henri Forest, as a trade unionist, and Bruno Dupuis, as a qualified personality, is the deployment of effective action to prevent occupational risks. Its main objective is to reduce accidents at work and improve working conditions. It will deliver its conclusions on 30 April and call for action on our part. Ladies and gentlemen, while this bill is a way of focusing attention on a very important subject, it fails to take into account four elements: the measures taken by our majority, in the aftermath of our election, within the framework of the law strengthening social dialogue; the legal and regulatory provisions that apply within the framework of the C2RMPs; the measures resulting from the health at work plan 2016-2020 which are being developed and implemented; Finally, the important parliamentary work under way in the Lecocq mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u194	A report! A mission! Seats! A convention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u195	At La République en marche, we have a two-step approach: dialogue and consultation and action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u196	Back up! Back up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u197	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As for you, in France, in the absence of a solution that suits you, you pursue your monologue. Free to you, colleagues! Be aware, in any case, that this monologue will never guide the action of the parliamentary majority. It is mobilized and determined to overcome the scourge of burn-out. It has already begun, continues to act at this very moment and will continue in the future, avoiding the pitfall of a rushed and inappropriate bill. That is why I call on you to adopt the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u198	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u199	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You accuse France of being a monologue! Which side is this monologue on? What about sectarianism? What about dogmatism? [[Same movements]] You rejected the text in committee, article after article, amendment after amendment; But in the sitting, it's belt, straps and string: you need the motion to reject so you don't even have to look at the amendments! [[Same movements]] But they are not uninteresting. One of them, for example, aims to lower the threshold to allow for the recognition of out-of-table diseases. You say that you are in favour of out of the picture, but you do not even allow this amendment to be examined! The Republicans have tabled an amendment proposing to assess the cost of work-related mental disorders, but you do not even allow the discussion to take place so that this amendment is otherwise voted on, if only considered. So see: we are quite capable of talking with the Republicans or the New Left; But you, you continue your monologue!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u200	You've made a lot of effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u201	It's urgent to wait, all the time! But we're not surprised. The logic that you have proposed since the beginning of the legislature is to leave employers and employees in a face-to-face mortiferous, pretending that a social dialogue will thus be established between two parties that would be equal. But that's not the case! This is not the case on a daily basis in any of the companies I mentioned. On the contrary, leaving both parties in camera is a risk. When a party is mistreated, a third party must intervene: it is the logic that has prevailed, in a century and a half of history, since the Villermé report of 1841 on child labour.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u202	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] At the time, employers – who still have voice carriers in this House – strongly opposed not only the ban on child labour, but also the fact that, through it, the state began to put a small toe inside the company. Since the beginning of the legislature, your majority has been doing everything to remove third parties who can mitigate injustice by serving as a buffer between two unequal parties. To begin with, you are abolishing the health and safety committees, a body that strives – at La Poste, at the Savings Bank, at Lidl – to sound an alarm bell, to launch an alert, to bring experts to the company to observe what is happening there and to evaluate management. This instance, you delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u204	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u205	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For starters, you delete it! Today, the unions do not know what tools they will subsequently have because you are thinking about it and are probably going to launch a mission on the subject. You talk about prevention, but on a daily basis, you plan the numbers of those third parties who could intervene within the company: 595 jobs of labour inspectors have disappeared since 2010. In 2017, only 28 positions were opened, as many as retirements in the Greater East region alone. You mine, you laminate the labour inspectorate. Doctors' orders are not better treated. Occupational medicine has lost 1,000 jobs in ten years, from 6000 to 5000, and skimming is expected to continue in the coming years, solely because of demographics. You could have presented today a counter-proposal on labour inspection or occupational medicine; We didn't hear anything! Ms Valérie Langevin, an expert from the National Research and Safety Institute, whom we have heard, expressed her concern that this body's budget, which is responsible for setting standards for the implementation of preventive measures in companies, was cut by 20% and its staff by 10%. Is this how you will introduce prevention in businesses? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Finally, health insurance is also not spared. According to Marine Jeantet, Director of Occupational Hazards in the Workers' Accidents and Occupational Diseases Branch, in five years, she could lose 20% of the professionals in charge of going to businesses to put in place preventive measures. These are all the third parties you remove in the companies. This does not contribute to social dialogue, which is supposed to be formed as if by magic, but rather exacerbates the balance of power which is now in favour of one of the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u207	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the groups IUD, Agir et indépendants, Nouvelle Gauche and La France insubmission of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u208	After decades of denial of this problem – like so many others who have overburdened employees – this disease is now recognized by all. But perhaps society itself continues not to want to look in the face what everyone now agrees that we must fight. The word burn-out is almost a euphemism; in good French, we say "professional exhaustion". The burn-out may be a short one, but who would bear the risk that people in our country will die from professional exhaustion? No one. And if we had to make the English word burn-out all the flavor, we would speak in good French of the "burns of the job": burned because of the job, in and by the job. Before being the torture suggested by the Bible, work is also an accomplishment. All aspire to it; and that is what is denied to them. It's the first of the pains we end up dying of. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Would the burn-out be multifactorial? Come on, what's not? The whole existence is multifactorial. All kinds of causes lead to all kinds of acts, but this multifactorial nature of phenomena does not exempt us from the uniqueness of decisions. It's called will. That is what we call today. If you had allowed the debate, you would have improved this law because it seems imperfect to you. But at least we would have made this crucial decision of social progress: no one should die at work! That's what we want. Yes, bad at work, bad at home; Bad at home, bad at work. Everyone knows: we are human beings, and only that; It would be good if at this hour each of us could remember. Beyond the honor of sitting here that life has given you, think of those who will die; Then you'll just think. Think with the poor and you'll never be on the wrong side! That is the lesson of political philosophy to which we call you. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We speak the only language these people understand: money. Ruffin is right: if we punish those who abuse others, they will stop abusing. Because that's all they hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u209	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u210	This debate will be a case of conscience for all those present in the Chamber. There is agreement on the diagnosis: burn-out is the consequence of a society that no longer considers men and women as an essential link, of a system that, between the stock market and life, too often chooses the stock market. Before being an individual problem – I do not minimize the human tragedies behind the situations described – it is first a pathology of civilization. I would like to stress the arguability of evacuating the debate about the difficulty in defining accountability for the problem. Occupational exhaustion is never the result of chance. The example of the cashier who has two minutes of break per hour worked – twelve minutes after six hours of work – shows that, when profitability is the only key to the organisation of work, it leads to these situations that we strongly denounce. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] Faced with this societal issue, Amélie de Montchalin said this morning on La Chaîne parlementaire that, when the subject was good, a referral was proposed to the committee, but that, when one wanted to obstruct, one proposed a pure and simple rejection. In proposing this motion of rejection, you are caught in flagrante delicto of obstruction, and that is unacceptable! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on some benches of the NG group]] As the sequence that we have just experienced shows, when it comes to hugging finance and meeting the requirements of the MEDEF, you do so with eagerness and enthusiasm, without brows. While the diagnosis is being made, you propose to us, according to Raymond Barre's formula – even the IDU group, Acter et indépendants is getting there! – "to put a brake on immobilism". It's not serious, it's not moral, it's not responsible. That is why, alongside François Ruffin, whose arguments we share with strength and passion, we will oppose your measure of obstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u211	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Attal, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, is there consensus in this House that burn-out is a social and societal reality in our country? Yes. That has been said, we have quoted testimonies and we all know, in our surroundings, in the field, the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u213	Well?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u214	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Is there a consensus that action is needed to adapt our world of work and society to take account of burn-out, particularly as regards compensation, but also prevention? Yes. Does the medical community today agree on a definition of burn-out as an occupational disease? No. She considers it to be above all a symptom...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u215	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u216	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] Gentlemen of France, I know that I am young and do not have years of political forum behind me, but I have the right to speak and I ask you to stop interrupting me! Perhaps you consider that young people are good either to go down the street or to keep quiet, but that is not our conception. We consider that they have the right to express themselves here like the others, without being interrupted by calls. [[Same movements]] I'm coming back to my point. Do we consider that social dialogue is the key to integrating burn-out into our work organisation and labour code? Yes. We proceed in stages and trust social dialogue. Is the text you are presenting today – which makes a page and which has not benefited from any consultation – completed? No. The text is neither technically nor legally valid. To say the opposite is to lie to the French. [[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds]] For all these reasons, our colleague Charlotte Lecocq was dispatched by the Government, with a union representative and a qualified personality, to make proposals – not in years or months, but in a few weeks. They will give rise to a debate in this House and will be taken into account by the majority. Of course, I call for the vote on this motion to reject. I would also like to note that it is silly to hear France criticise us for supporting a motion of rejection, while this group systematically tables one on each of our texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u217	Madam President, the two minutes have passed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u218	Stop! All the speakers have passed two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u219	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Swipe in front of your door!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u220	I left Mr. Mélenchon and Mr. Jumel a few more seconds; That is why Mr Attal was also allowed to do so, especially since he was interrupted. Mrs Brigitte Kuster, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u221	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, once again, this motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party prevents a debate on which another parliamentary group has taken the initiative. It's becoming recurring. This time it is a most sensitive subject, which unfortunately affects thousands of people, of whom only 600 have been recognised as suffering from occupational disease. We do not adhere to the restrictive view of the causes of the burn -out put forward in the bill – the triggering role is thus attributed almost exclusively to management – but we share the objective of recognizing as an occupational disease the psychic pathologies resulting from professional exhaustion, even if we must advance out of the picture. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] However, with this motion to reject, you have no choice but to stop any discussion and the possibility of developing and amending the text. We therefore call on the Government to deepen its thinking on psychosocial risks and to recognize the need to follow up on the measures proposed by my colleagues, while building on the parliamentary work already done. The recognition of burn-out syndrome is indispensable and cannot be exempted from much more extensive legislative and regulatory work than has just taken place. We ask for an extension; That is why we will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u222	The next speaker is Mr Brahim Hammouche, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u223	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, professional exhaustion is a major subject of society, and it is important that national representation take an interest in it. But what is burn-out: a form of stress, suffering at work, a syndrome of mental and physical exhaustion, a mal-being at work, distress in the face of paradoxical injunctions in the organization of work? This is probably a bit of all this. In any case, from a clinical point of view, there is always a double constraint: the individual is caught between personal and professional values, deprived of the means to meet this requirement. Hence the difficulty of precisely characterizing burn-out, of giving a consensus definition of burn-out. This also makes it difficult to establish a causal link between work and observed disorders. The epidemiological data available in France – which is included in your report – are unfortunately very insufficient. We must continue this nosography. A meta-analysis work in work psychology would provide us with a better knowledge of burn-out syndrome, including its causes, which would allow us to better recognize it. The prevention of these psychological and somatic sufferings is a necessity; The proposal for a law by our colleagues in the La France insoumée group does not include any such measures. It is essential to inform workers in order to deconstruct the pathogenic processes of occupational exhaustion. It is this knowledge that will enable us to take appropriate measures, including prevention. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] Colleagues, work has been initiated by the Government. Their conclusions will soon be known; We will be able to rely on them to move forward in a consensual way on this burning issue. In the meantime, the MODEM Group will vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u224	The next speaker is Francis Vercamer, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u225	This is a real subject of society, an interesting issue which deserves a continuous debate in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u226	Then we must vote against the motion to reject it beforehand!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u227	It must be said that it has been discussed by our rapporteur, with the measure, restraint and calm that we know about it, and supported by the chairman of the La France group with no less calm and restraint. Nevertheless, the IDU-Agir group was not convinced by their performance. Admittedly, burn-out is a real societal problem, but it is unfortunate that all proposals to combat it – and yours is no exception to this rule – approach it from a curative perspective. We prefer preventive action. The problem today is not whether it is a disease or not; The problem is to fight it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u228	We're not saying anything else!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u229	...because stress at work is a real scourge in industrial relations within companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u230	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u231	How can we prevent this stress? How to avoid burn-outs? This is the question that is of real interest to us, more than the question of whether to recognize this disease out of the picture or in a picture of occupational disease. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In these circumstances, will we vote on this motion to reject it beforehand? No: we prefer that the debate continue, we prefer to discuss how to prevent this disease, rather than interrupting the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u233	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] The UDI-Agir Group will therefore abstain on this motion of rejection. We cannot vote against it, because it would suggest that we support this bill, which – as I said in general discussion – is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u234	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u235	First of all, I would like to remind our colleagues that, under our Rules of Procedure, a motion of rejection is intended to raise a problem of compatibility with the Constitution or to have it decided that there is no need for deliberation. However, I have not heard anyone mention any problem of unconstitutionality: I conclude that the majority does not believe that this issue should be discussed today. It is "moving, there is nothing to see": you refuse to examine the substance of the sections of this bill. But it is not because some of you are born in the world today that the world is born with them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u236	But what does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u237	An ancient work has been done on burn-out and occupational diseases. You're asking for a report? We have one: it was adopted unanimously in this House just eleven months ago. Do you want any proposals? You have it: the opposition – on all benches – presents it, but you refuse to debate it. You often claim to defend Parliament. Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, there will probably be an institutional reform: after rationalised parliamentarism, you invented something radically new, which could be called frugalized parliamentarism. Already yesterday, in the Joint Joint Committee, the Sixth Ordinance amending the Labour Code was adopted without debate at the sitting. It's extremely serious! You tell us that Mrs Lecocq will submit a report on this issue. We will pay careful attention to its conclusions. I hope that you, for your part, will pay the same attention to the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Health in Industry, set up at the initiative of Pierre Dharréville and the GDR Group, which, I am sure, will again address this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] You have principles with variable geometry, which we do not accommodate. That is why we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u238	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u239	Consequently, the proposal for a law is rejected and there will be no need to proceed to the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u240	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u241	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u242	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the democratic importance of the use of the referendum route for the ratification of the European Union-Canada Free Trade Treaty (No 497).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u243	In the general debate, Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u244	Madam President, the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, it is the story of a man falling from a 50-storey building. As he falls, he keeps repeating himself: "So far everything's fine, so far everything's fine, so far everything's fine. But the important thing is not the fall, it's the landing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u245	Matthieu Kassowitz, in La Haine! You have to give your references!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u246	It is the allegory of the European Union that, in the face of social, democratic and environmental disasters, is constantly repeating itself: "So far everything is going well so far", convinced that the increase in economic liberalism, deregulation and technocracy is the only remedy. The CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – is one of the main elements of this forward flight. This new generation free trade treaty between the European Union and Canada contains measures that will have a major impact on our daily lives. They affect, for example, health, food, agriculture, public services and the environment. It is a sum, a break, but a break at low noise: it was in the greatest secret that the negotiations were held, between 2009 and 2014, before the Treaty was ratified by the European Parliament on 15 February 2017 in a deafening silence. Candidate Emmanuel Macron undertook to renegotiate CETA in the event of proven risks. Elected Chairman, he set up a committee that submitted a report – the Schubert report – whose conclusions clearly highlight the dangers of CETA, particularly for the climate. However, on 21 September, a few days after the submission of this report, CETA quietly entered into provisional application. Almost 90% of the measures in this Treaty are therefore already being implemented, without the French having heard of them, and without the approval of the national parliaments! But "so far everything is fine", to such an extent that this impressive denial of democracy does not seem to disturb the artisans of this kind of treaty. At its hearing by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I asked European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici what would happen if the Parliament of a Member State of the European Union did not adopt CETA. He replied without delay that, in this case, the CETA would continue to apply. Yes, the provisional application would continue despite this refusal! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Does it have to be understood that, even by rejecting it, our country could not call into question the application of this Treaty? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you quite frankly: in these circumstances, what are we serving? Where's sovereignty? How to accept such a denial of democracy, such a democratic coup d'état! But "so far everything is fine"... Moreover, with CETA, our very ability to legislate will be compromised by the establishment of the well-known arbitration courts. These courts, which already exist around the world, allow companies to sue states if they consider themselves aggrieved by a political decision. Yes, a multinational can, with CETA, challenge public policies. For example, if France decided to adopt a law to reduce soda consumption for public health reasons, Coca-Cola could take this court, challenge this legislation, win and even be compensated by several billion euros. This hypothesis is based on existing cases: a Canadian company has, for example, pursued Romania on the grounds that the state was blocking the licence to operate an open-pit gold mine, with residents mobilizing against the project because it caused the blasting of several mountains, the destruction of villages, the displacement of populations and the use of cyanide to extract gold; But the Canadian company doesn't care, it claims to Romania €4 billion in damages! I could also talk to you about Veolia, who attacked Egypt because it had the overcooked desire to raise the minimum wage. According to researcher Angus Van Harten, in two thirds of the cases, it is the companies that are winning these lengthy and costly proceedings against the states. The question is: with such a treaty, can we, tomorrow in France, carry out progressive public policies? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the application of CETA and its future avatars, such as JEFTA, the free trade agreement between Japan and the European Union, the fall is nothing inexorable. The economy, the power of money, must not be superior to democracy and the common good. The Group of the European People's Party is therefore proposing a resolution for a referendum because the people must know, because the people must settle. Let us rely on its legitimacy. The important thing is not the fall: it's the landing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u248	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u249	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, almost to the day, our Assembly was examining, at the initiative of the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, including our former colleague Marc Dolez, a European motion for a resolution calling on the French Government to organise a referendum for the ratification of CETA, a proposal then adopted thanks to the votes and the support of parliamentarians on all sides, transcending the traditional divisions, aware of the importance of this free trade treaty, aware of the urgent need to put the people back at the centre of political concerns. A year later, driven by all the neoliberal forces, the CETA compressor roller continues its forced march, ignoring a multiplication in France, Europe and Canada, ignoring a massive rejection of the free trade agreements, from the general population, from the employees to the farmers, but also from a large part of the economic circles such as the TPEs and SMEs, ignoring all the citizen and political initiatives taken to stop this bulldozer. This call from the national representation for a referendum remained a dead letter, and the people remain on the doorstep. This symbolizes the philosophy behind the negotiations and ratification of CETA: a democracy far from the people, without the people, against the people. The negotiations conducted by the European Commission with Canada had first proved to be of a singular opacity, a model of the kind – an unknown mandate, a broad scope of the fuzzy negotiations – because they are patients like moulds, which grow in the shadows. The process of signature and ratification has logically been part of this trajectory, with, at times, the sudden eruption of democracy, such as the courageous vote of the Walloon Parliament in October 2016, blocking – for a time only – the ratification of this trade agreement with Canada, however insufficient to deal with pressures on all sides and prevent the signing of the CETA. To the good memory of the people, we are told: "Democracy will finally be able to express itself. A consultation of the French Parliament is thus planned for the second half of 2018 with a view to final ratification. What a prank! What a scam! The provisions falling within the competence of the European Union, the bulk of which is CETA, have already entered into force on 21 September. This so-called provisional application crowns an unprecedented blow by Brussels and governments against the sovereignty of peoples and their representatives. Opacity, remoteness and technocracy, driven by sufficiency, contempt and authoritarianism: CETA symbolizes everything our fellow citizens blame the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on many benches of the FI group]] How amazement then of this terrible return of staff that are the nationalist retreats that go through so many Western democracies? How can we be surprised by the lack of love for Europe? That is why, today, only a referendum and a return of the people to the foreground would bring this dangerous flight to a halt. To this democratic scandal is added the illusion, the glamour of happy globalization, carried by the apostles of free trade and neoliberalism. In the face of the stalemate of trade negotiations within the WTO, the venerators of market share have found a new string: that of bilateral agreements, aimed in particular at restricting, or even concealing, any type of investment legislation, standards and public procurement. We had the TAFTA – Transatlantic free trade area –, a trade treaty between Europe and the United States, which we had already fought on these benches, and of which CETA is the cloned little brother; In the near future, there may be the JEFTA, a trade treaty with Japan, and still others, we are told, with Australia or with Singapore.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u252	It doesn't end!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u253	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In addition to the democratic forward flight, there is a commercial forward flight. For the ayatollahs of free trade and the merchants of the temple – of infinite growth – the solution passes through the big market: what is called "standard", they call it "barrier", what is called "protection", they call it "brake". This all-market fanaticism leads to the view of commercial interests as superior to environmental concerns and human and social needs. In fact, this fable translates into the competition of workers and the harmonisation of protections, according to the rule at least so-called. Colleagues, this so-called model is still sick of the social disasters it creates: the report published by OXFAM – Oxford Committee for Famine Relief – last week showed that, out of 100 euros of wealth created in the world in 2017, the richest 1% took 82, the remaining 18 euros went to the 49% below, and zero for the poorest 50%! Clearing the norm, diluting the sovereignty of peoples, it leads, logically, to the submission of public power to sets that now exceed it: I mean multinationals. The arbitration procedure incorporated into this treaty is a symbol of this. We are told that this mechanism has been reformed in order to make it more democratic in the face of popular mobilization. But, in the end, asymmetry remains the rule and the one-way mechanism: only investors will be able to sue a state if it adopts a decision that would compromise their investments! This tool is a weapon of mass destruction towards peoples and the expression of their sovereignty! The people will certainly remain free to legislate, but the little finger on the sewing of the trousers, under the financial threat of a possible recourse on the part of an investor. According to official United Nations figures from the Veblen Institute on arbitration mechanisms, 770 complaints were identified, and nearly 60% of known cases led to compensation by the State under attack, hence by the taxpayer. I will conclude my speech by referring to the agricultural and food aspects of CETA and the free trade agreements under negotiation, on which I am particularly involved with the other Communist Members and all the members of the GDR Group. All the responses to our multiple interventions on the risks involved, on the lack of guarantees for our food sovereignty and security as well as for the future of our producers, converge on one point: there are no guarantees; There are only risks that need to be addressed. This is the case for the 46000 tonnes of Canadian beef and veal that will be returned duty-free, to which will soon have to be added the additional 100,000 tonnes granted to producers in the MERCOSUR countries, the Common Market of the South. In this connection, I listened well to the statement made by the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Phil Hogan, whom I asked on 10 October last before the Committee on European Affairs, as did the President of the Republic during his wishes to farmers last Thursday in Puy-de-Dôme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u254	It's perlimpinpin powder!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u255	"More words, more words, the same words," the song would say, words that will actually translate into the same evils for our producers and European citizens. Each time, I thought I heard the old ritournelle of the former Director of the World Trade Organization, Mr. Lamy, who was reciting on all television sets his liberal breviary of comparative advantage theory. Definitely, the VRPs of neoliberalism are interchangeable, they boast all the virtues of happy globalization and respectful free trade agreements, the opportunities to be defended, the need to adapt while preserving our interests. But the reality is quite different. Thus, the red lines set by the President of the Republic, defended a week ago before the agricultural world, have not even held five days before the European Commissioners responsible for negotiating with MERCOSUR. Who are we laughing at? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In reality, this permanent hypocrisy of the verb with regard to the dangerousness of free trade agreements demonstrates how much we are facing a debate of substance and society. Do we want to swallow anything, to be able to sell anything in return? Where do we put the food, social, health and environmental interests of women and men living on this planet? Are we putting ourselves above the private interests of global finance? That is the fundamental question on which the citizens of our country, and the citizens of all the countries concerned by these free trade agreements, should be able to express themselves. That is why, as we did on February 2, 2017, we will continue to demand a referendum on the ratification of CETA.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u256	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u257	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the world would have stopped on 21 September: on that day, the European Union would have taken an absolutely insane risk by allowing the entry into force of a free trade treaty with a threatening power: Canada. Six months later, there was indeed a health scandal, but it turns out that it concerned, first and foremost, a large French dairy company. But come to the bottom. The CETA is obviously a very important agreement for national representation. A reminder: this agreement, negotiated under the two previous majorities, today represents the highest level of existing trade agreements in social and environmental matters – even if we wish to do much better –; It unites two markets of very different sizes, but here we speak of Canada and of absolutely comparable levels of protection; It opens up commercial opportunities for us, and we really need them. Finally, it is an agreement that is starting well, since, since 21 September, we have seen our exports grow, particularly in the agricultural sector. However, CETA remains very misperceived, as in fact everything that is negotiated in opacity. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] The CETA is therefore an opportunity, for the majority of us, to implement a change of method. And that change began long before today's debate. The French want a change in the rules of international trade and, from this point of view, the very expression of "free trade" is no longer accepted: we largely prefer "trade regulation".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u258	We change the name, but it's to do the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u259	Matthias Fekl and Stéphane Le Foll recently initiated this change by starting to open the doors of CETA to civil society. It was a good start, but we must actually go much further. And we did not wait for this debate to take action: we no longer want Parliament to have trade agreements only to ratify them, at the last moment, when everything is over. We want a full association of parliamentarians and stakeholders throughout the negotiations. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not make a mistake in the fight: the issue is indeed a political control of trade agreements, and not, by a very risky use of Article 11 of the Constitution, to appeal to the referendum, which, I would point out, concerns only treaties which would have an impact on the functioning of the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u260	So what? What about the arbitration courts?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u261	If there was a referendum, it would deprive Parliament of any capacity to influence the implementation of the agreement over time. Following the report of the Schubert Commission, our group made 29 very strong recommendations to assess the real risks of this agreement, and on all these points it was heard by the Government. The result was a very ambitious plan of action. First of all, we must distinguish between the real risks and the fake news: European health and environmental law is fully guaranteed by CETA and cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u262	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u263	So we won't find any GMO beef or transgenic blue-eyed salmon on our plates. Finally, if there is regulatory convergence, it will only be done from the top, in the texts – this is also the commitment made by the Government. In addition, many of the measures in the Action Plan are aimed at strengthening and complementing the Treaty itself in the areas of environment, health and climate. This plan includes, in particular, the following commitments: to audit labelling and control procedures; finalise the establishment of the Investment Court and make it transparent, as laid down in the texts; to guarantee the climate veto, that is to say to preserve the right of States to respect the commitments adopted under the Paris Agreement, of which we are all, including Canada, signatories. Finally, the beef sector will benefit from a new type of impact study aimed at anticipating crises and at imagining appropriate measures upstream. While this approach applies both to CETA and to the agreements to be negotiated, this fight has not yet been won, because it must not only be conducted in Paris, but also in Brussels, Geneva and elsewhere. For us, the Government has an obligation of means on two points: on the one hand, to bring these requests – ours – to the highest level, and on the other hand, to commit itself to transparency in the discussions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] With the withdrawal of the United States from the international trade scene, we have a unique opportunity today. Yes to a commercial dynamic that France needs, but yes also to a France and a Europe that protects. Yes to trade agreements, but to agreements that protect our social rights, our environmental rights and our planet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u264	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u265	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the words I am going to make are not the result of the common position of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u266	As always!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u267	Our group has various positions on this subject. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our President, Christian Jacob, for allowing us to exercise our mandate by allowing us the freedom to express ourselves, especially since it does not seem to me to exist on all the benches of this House. The Group of the European People's Party decided to resume, as part of its parliamentary niche, a debate on which our Assembly had already had to vote during the previous parliamentary term. Of course, in the eyes of the majority on the move, such an approach must appear as a vestige of the old world. However, given the importance of this Treaty and its impact on our country, on our farmers, on our producers, on our businesses, but also on our citizens, the subject deserves to be revisited, because such an issue must be raised before Parliament. We are faced with a treaty that will profoundly upset our patterns of consumption, production and, of course, trade. This is due to Canada's place in our trading partners: this major country is the European Union's twelfth trading partner and accounts for 1.8% of its foreign trade. France is Canada's eighth largest trading partner and third among European countries. Above all, this agreement will affect entire sections of our industry and services. The greatest danger thus weighs on our beef industry, but not only on it. I am a fervent advocate of our farmers, and we must do everything we can to protect them. However, the committee chaired by Katheline Schubert states that "the agreement will lead to a limited overall increase in European imports of Canadian pork and beef". If I agree with some of the views expressed by our colleagues in the Group, I do not share the totally negative view expressed in France's statement of reasons for their motion for a resolution. This agreement can be an opportunity for our economy if we manage to capture all the benefits: Canada is a country with which we have long-standing trade, language and personal exchanges. His economy is close to ours, and a rapprochement with him can be an incredible chance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u268	Is that cooperation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u269	Of course, this agreement raises issues that we must not avoid. Our people are indeed concerned, and we must hear that concern. On the environmental issue, the Schubert Committee states that the agreement does not pose any significant dangers. His report states: "These are not risks introduced by the agreement, but rather missed opportunities. Although I regret that this agreement has not gone further in environmental matters, it is wrong and exaggerated to say that it represents a danger. Of course, it poses a problem for the climate in terms of carbon dioxide emissions, in particular because of the increase in trade. However, ladies and gentlemen of the La France group, it is exaggerated to write, as you do in the explanatory memorandum to your resolution, that "the CETA burys the Paris Agreement". Canada and the European Union are both signatories to this major and revolutionary agreement. Yes, we must do everything possible to ensure that its effects on the climate are taken into account and that we can correct the negative effects induced, but no, the CETA does not bury by the Paris Agreement. The substantive debate on this agreement must take place, and I hope that Parliament will take up this matter. In this regard, I am pleased with the establishment of a monitoring committee, especially since CETA is considered a living agreement, intended to evolve over time. We are the representatives of the French people, and, as such, we must not only deal with them: we have an obligation to do so. This treaty was – this is a problem – negotiated with discretion by the European Commission and hidden by the negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, TAFTA, which monopolized all the spotlights. It was negotiated by the Commission for seven years, from 2009 to 2014, and signed on 30 October 2016. While European peoples are increasingly sceptical about Europe, the European Commission's attitude has only strengthened them in their desire to turn away from it. To say that the construction of CETA has lacked democratic transparency is a pleonasm: the European Commission has tried, from beginning to end, to exclude countries and their democratic representations, going so far as to argue that CETA falls within the exclusive competence of the Union. In the face of numerous challenges, she was forced to reverse and accepted the fact that it was a mixed agreement, while noting that it still fell within her jurisdiction. We would almost be obliged to thank the Commission, which, in its great kindness, has kindly given us the floor on a text that will profoundly affect the lives of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have the great privilege of deciding on CETA, which is already in force – partly or rather, I should say, almost entirely – since 21 September 2017. Thus, if the French Parliament is in theory supposed to express itself on CETA, it is not in practice. The previous Government has done nothing to involve Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u272	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u273	During the debate on this subject which took place almost a year ago, on 2 February 2017, as our colleague André Chassaigne reminded us, the Members sitting on all the benches of this House had denounced the absence of discussion and information from Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u274	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u275	The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, had promised not to apply CETA if it posed environmental problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u276	He did the right thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u277	For that reason, he had the CETA Impact Assessment Committee chaired by Mrs Schubert set up. He had also promised to impose changes to the content of the same CETA. What's his promise? Nowhere. The CETA is applied to more than 90%, and these changes are non-existent! The adoption of CETA, or rather its non-adoption, is a denial of democracy. It is in my opinion up to Parliament, representing the French people and their sovereignty, whether or not to ratify such an agreement: the provisional application of more than 90% is unacceptable! However, even if I agree with La France's arguments on this point, I will not vote for the motion for a resolution. In fact, I believe that the way to a referendum is not the right way to ratification: only Parliament, as the representative of the people and as an emanation of the nation, should have been seized of it. I therefore appeal to the Government, Mr Secretary of State: the question of the content of CETA must be put to Parliament without delay, and the contentious issues, including the issue of arbitration, must be addressed, as well as the means to better protect our farmers and our services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u278	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u279	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I am responsible for presenting to you the position of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement on the resolution under discussion. I will take the opportunity to give guidance on our position on CETA. For having lived a number of debates within our group, but also, for example, in my constituency last week, where I met representatives of the Peasant Confederation at my office, it seems important to me to distinguish, with regard to CETA, three very distinct areas of debate. The first, which is almost in the order of political philosophy, can be summed up as follows: are we for or against free trade? And if we're for, what free trade do we want? Some would argue that, thanks to global economic development, extreme poverty is decreasing. Others will argue that cultivating and consuming with extremely short circuits is more favorable to the planet. But this is a subject of political philosophy on which the position of the MODEM Group, which emerged from its debates, is as follows: yes, we are for free trade, but not for absolute, total and unregulated free trade. We are for a controlled free trade, with rules and trusted partners. We are talking about a very structured agreement, which consists of 2300 pages, which is the result of seven years of negotiations and which provides for monitoring, reporting and monitoring mechanisms. It has been concluded with a friendly country with which we share fundamental values, particularly with regard to the place of the citizen in society. It is also a country in which the province of Quebec has special ties with France, perhaps stronger than those with Italy, Luxembourg or Lithuania. We are now in a configuration which, in our view, means that, with regard to this first axis, we are in favour of this agreement. The second axis, the second question, can be summed up as follows: is this agreement a good agreement in itself? In other words, have the opportunities and risks involved been identified? Are they tilting the balance on the side of a positive view of the opportunities that are open to us? Jacques Maire spoke of these: I am thinking in particular of the controlled geographical designations and the forty-two French appellations that can now be valued. Let's talk about the risks: candidate Emmanuel Macron had made a promise: he had committed himself to what an independent study and expertise characterizes these risks. But he kept this promise, like all the others, by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u280	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u281	He held it by setting up the Schubert Commission, which proved its independence and concluded that, while the agreement did not in itself involve re-defining risks, its implementation was a fundamental element in better controlling and managing these different risks. Monitoring of this implementation is precisely the subject of the action plan proposed by the Government to monitor, analyse and act on the effects and potential risks of this agreement. This action plan contains a climate veto, very demanding audits in terms of sanitary and phytosanitary standards, controls and measures specific to the beef sector, including accurate monitoring of import volumes. Within the MODEM and related group, we have had important discussions on these same risks. A clear position emerged from this: a strong demand and vigilance, particularly with regard to sensitive sectors such as, of course, the beef sector. Marielle de Sarnez expressed this very clearly by asking, on the one hand, for a solid impact assessment on these same sensitive sectors and, on the other hand, for an involvement of our assembly which must be associated with this impact assessment, including, upstream, the definition of its specifications, as well as the monitoring and implementation of the action plan. The third area of reflection – after the question of whether we are philosophically for or against free trade and whether the risks inherent in the agreement are controlled – concerns the question you are asking, colleagues in the La France group, in this resolution. It comes back to the question: is there a democratic deficit? What about the democratic aspect of things? We must not deny the existence of important issues in this area, particularly related to the problem of the transparency of the European Commission, already denounced to the European Parliament in its vote on the Treaty. There is also an important democratic problem, linked to the fact that the citizen debate comes almost at the end of the race, that is to say, at the end of the process. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] However, in the face of these challenges, I would like to keep in mind that we have chosen a certain European model, which involves, in particular, exclusive competence in commercial matters. Under Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency, we have validated the fact of entrusting the negotiating mandate to the Commission and, under François Hollande's presidency, we have validated the signing of the agreement by the Commission. In addition, the European parliamentarians voted for the agreement. But their democratic legitimacy is no less than ours. That is to say that in the MODEM Group we will not be accrediting the thesis that CETA would be a European diktat, nor will we be accrediting the thesis that the European Parliament would not be legitimate. That is why we will not endorse the idea of using the referendum now. However, Mr. Secretary of State, we will have an approach towards the Government that, in order to be supportive and confident, will be no less demanding and vigilant. We ask you to learn from CETA's example for future agreements, and to innovate as none of your predecessors has done, by now taking the habit of involving Parliament, certainly downstream, in the implementation of the agreements, but also upstream, when the executive presents its position to the European Councils on these agreements and accepts their signature. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] This close involvement of our Assembly in all the key milestones in the signing of trade agreements, with the deepest respect, of course, for the separation of powers, would be the surest way, Secretary of State, to give a new democratic impetus for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u282	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u283	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to invite the Government to consider, pursuant to Article 11 of the Constitution, proposing to the President of the Republic to organize the procedure for the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union by referendum. I recall that while 408 Members of the European Parliament voted in favour of this agreement in February 2017, 254 voted against and 33 abstained. In addition, only 16 of the 74 French MEPs voted in favour of the text. The entry into force of this Treaty raises important questions which have not found a meaningful answer or at the height of the stakes. I'll mention two of them. The first concerns the problem of private justice in the private arbitration courts included in CETA. I recall that the very large transnational corporations generally have subsidiaries in Canada and will therefore be able to pursue European countries via these companies. The second question is the protection of our consumption, our environment and our agriculture, since Europe will not have the possibility to invoke the precautionary principle in future disputes, since this principle is not explicitly mentioned in the Treaty. There is therefore real concern about the possibility for the European Union and our country to resist the negative effects of CETA, in particular by promoting better environmental and health standards. During the previous parliamentary term, several Members of Parliament, of whom I was one, argued that the first version of the Treaty highlighted the development of industrial agriculture without the parallel provision for measures to reduce its effects on climate and biodiversity. I personally requested an impact assessment and accompanying measures. Subsequently, a commission of independent experts was appointed by the President of the Republic to assess the impact of CETA on the environment, climate and health. However, the experts stressed a "uncertainty" on the possibility for Europe to invoke the precautionary principle in future disputes, for lack of explicit mention in the Treaty. They also indicated that the liberalization of agricultural trade would give Canada at least the start in terms of health and environmental standards, thereby weakening European agriculture. They also pointed to Canada's "lower requirements" for pesticides, GMOs or growth activators. Finally, they referred to the possibility of negotiating a second climate-related agreement between the European Union and Canada to offset the potential adverse effects of CETA on climate. The Treaty has since largely entered into force before its ratification by national parliaments. The New Left Group had expressed significant reservations on the question of private arbitration tribunals, which in its view posed a threat to the sovereignty of States, and in September it had asked the Government to suspend the provisional entry into force of CETA until the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which had been referred to it by Belgium. Our group has also called for Parliament to be seized and to decide as soon as possible on this particular agreement and, more generally, on the prospects for the so-called next-generation trade agreements. In particular, we need to verify the compatibility of CETA with the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement concluded and ratified by France after the beginning of negotiations with Canada. However, despite these substantive reservations, we remain dubious about recourse to the referendum in this particular case. The referendum is not always the instrument of democracy, since it can be a vote of acclaim: the people acclaim a proposal for acceptance or refusal, without having its vote preceded by a quality debate, the very one that we clearly and explicitly ask the Government to organize. In addition, the outcome of a referendum may freeze a decision either upstream or downstream, without it being more possible to adapt it to the context or to negotiate again. The example of a referendum won in reaction to Europe in one of our neighbours, on the basis of arguments of more emotion than reflection, gives us an illustration of this. As a result, many citizens in Europe wanted the results of referendums on future international treaties to be conditional on obtaining a qualified majority guaranteeing genuine popular participation and a significant level of commitment. However, our Constitution, whose practice of referendum is historically and essentially plebiscite, does not offer any of these guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u284	You're afraid of the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u285	We will therefore abstain from this motion for a resolution. In our democracy, for as imperfect as it is, when the people exercise power through the voice of their representatives, it is he who still preserves it. This is the form of our Republic, this is its strength, too. Let's not deprive ourselves of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u286	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u287	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, on CETA, almost everything has already been said. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union raised both the fear and the enthusiasm of our citizens, businesses and farmers. If Europe is to protect its inhabitants, it cannot afford to live closed to itself. First of all, the agreement is already validated for 90% of these articles! Even before it was ratified by the thirty-eight regional and national parliaments of the European Union, 90% of the 2344 pages of CETA, signed in October 2016 by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and European Council President Donald Tusk, came into force on September 21, 2016 on an interim basis. All provisions within the exclusive competence of the European Union are now effective. It is therefore the bulk of the customs duties on European and Canadian exports that have disappeared. In concrete terms, since September 2017, CETA has abolished tariffs on 98% of products traded between the two zones and extended certain services, such as transport and telecoms, to competition. It has also resulted in the recognition of 143 products of protected geographical origin in Canada, whose agriculture, on the other hand, is gaining increased access to the European market. We will therefore be asked tomorrow to ratify an agreement that has already been largely validated, which is a matter of some hypocrisy. This ratification procedure is expected to take a long time because, because of the mixed nature of the agreement, it is up to the Member States of the European Union to ratify it according to their own constitutional procedures. This stage of ratification has already begun and, as it stands, seven countries have already given their approval. If there is no specific time limit for such ratification, it should be borne in mind that, in its absence, provisions which fall within the scope of shared competence between Member States and the Commission cannot enter into force. We can clearly regret the fact that Europe has little regard for the sovereignty of its Member States, a phenomenon verified from the outset of the negotiation process, since, where Canada alone was represented by three negotiators, the European Union, composed of twenty-eight countries, also had only three negotiators! This proves once again that Europe, as a whole, needs to be inherently challenged in order to be able to communicate better with the outside world. Economically, and generally, this agreement is an asset, first of all because the Canadian market is huge. Canada is one of the richest states in the world: with more than 30 million consumers with a high standard of living and a GDP of $1887 billion in 2014, it is the tenth largest economic power in the world. The sums at stake are important since the agreement will translate into 60 billion euros of trade per year, an extremely large sum in the economic situation we are going through. It was therefore the entire European and French industry that benefited from an opening of the Canadian market, including the opening of public procurement. The agricultural world is not left behind, as the agreement will increase the export of our regional nuggets and our know-how. CETA also opens a wide market for European and therefore French milk producers. The same applies to wines and spirits, which is good for the French wine sector. Moreover, those who were concerned about the arbitration procedure or the issue of GMOs were reassured. During an appointment, Pierre Marc Johnson, Chief Negotiator of CETA for Quebec, certified us that GMO products banned in Europe would not be exported from Canada to the countries of the European Union. We must, however, know why: we must measure the importance of this agreement between Canada and the European Union in terms of both the commercial gain it allows and the risk it poses to our jobs and to the respect of our environmental standards. Indeed, not all concerns have disappeared. For example, our livestock producers, particularly those in the beef and veal sector, will be competing with Canadian farmers: their slight loss of market share in Europe will have to be assessed, as livestock production will suffer from Canadian competition, which has an import quota of 67500 tonnes in the European Union. I would therefore like to stress the need for real guarantees for the beef and veal sector in particular. CETA, which foreshadows the future European trade policy in many respects, must not contribute to the weakening of our livestock sectors, especially if the agreement is to serve as an example for future agreements, in particular with the countries of MERCOSUR. Another source of concern is the lack of room in this agreement for the sovereign State, which had already proved itself in the composition of the European delegation in the negotiation process. The most notable example is that of the arbitration procedure, which has led to a real lifting of shields. The finally adopted reform of the arbitration court is a little more satisfactory without reassurance. The instrument chosen to deal with disagreements between investors and Member States is the Investment Court system. The Court shall be composed of fifteen permanent judges, drawn equally from Canada, the European Union and third countries, whose appointment shall be the responsibility of the States Parties. The Court will be referred to an Appeals Tribunal, which may form binding case law binding on judges and States parties. Even if points are not satisfactory, this agreement opens up real possibilities for many French and European companies, whether in the field of industry or in agriculture, since since this agreement there has been an increase in exports from the dairy and wine sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u288	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u289	It would therefore be unfair to deprive them of this market necessary for their development and French growth. However, I repeat, this agreement must not be at the expense of a sector, and that is why it is essential to secure the French meat sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u290	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u291	On the form, this motion for a resolution to submit to the President of the Republic the idea of organising the procedure for ratifying CETA by referendum does not seem to us to be relevant, given that some opponents of this agreement have themselves favoured a certain opacity of the debates by willingly following what many voices might call misinformation. In our democratic system, it is legitimate to fully consider a trade policy and to be able to express doubts as to the provisions of such a treaty. Nevertheless, the right grain must be distinguished from the tare, although some people do not fail to voluntarily propagate certain amalgams. This has led to confusion between CETA and TAFTA. Moreover, the confidentiality of certain points, which were necessary in the negotiations on treaties of this importance, was able to fuel fantasies which were widely instrumentalised by opponents of the text. Moreover, it is on this idea that the motion for a resolution is based on suggesting the referendum route, a new opportunity to obscure the debates and sabotage the negotiations of a treaty, of which 90% of the provisions have already entered into force. Moreover, as has been pointed out, CETA is a living agreement, which, as such, will evolve even after its ratification. It is up to us, as parliamentarians, who are the custodians of the mandate of our voters, to shoulder our responsibilities by ensuring the best possible interpretation and by remaining vigilant about the interests of France and Europe. In substance, this motion for a resolution calls for democratic validation. But why do this especially by referendum? Until proven otherwise, national representation is democratically elected and represents all of our fellow citizens. I therefore reassure the authors of the text: the agreement of CETA, if it is validated, will be democratic, as you wished. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] The establishment of a referendum would finally help to spread the image of a frileous France, which, in the face of a Gaulish syndrome, would be unable to adapt to the changes of a globalised world and in perpetual change.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u292	Is that a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u293	If France fails to agree with Canada, with whom we share many common values, then it will no longer work with anyone. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let us adopt the opposite stance, while, of course, maintaining our national prerogatives and sovereignty. Europe can be a relevant springboard towards globalisation, a vector of our values, our vision of the world and our economic power. In this project, France has a role to play, interests to promote and achievements to strengthen. Let us dare to undertake and believe in our success!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u295	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-02-01-O1131.u296	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the motion for a resolution on the democratic importance of the use of the referendum route for the ratification of the free trade treaty between the European Union and Canada; Proposal for a constitutional law to make access to water an inalienable right; Proposal for a law on the establishment of a receipt in the context of an identity check; Proposal for a law on euthanasia and assisted suicide, for a dignified end of life. The meeting is adjourned.
