ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u2	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor to raise her question, No. 104, concerning the school accompaniment of disabled children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u3	My question is to the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons. They are called Ezio, Thelma, Livia, Mohamed or Gabriel and, even if they have different motor or psychological disabilities, they only ask to go to school and attend school with their comrades. Today, however, they are suffering, together with their families, the consequences of the very serious deterioration of school support for children with disabilities. Five months after the start of the school year, in Haute-Savoie, as in many other departments, school life assistants – AVS – are still sorely lacking. The conditions under which they work are extremely difficult: lack of training, low-value wages, mostly part-time contracts and frequent sick leave without replacement. Children therefore benefit only partially from the hours nevertheless notified by the departmental houses of persons with disabilities, the CDMH. For children with disabilities, this time is not only valuable: it ensures their future and their autonomy. By depriving them, in whole or in part, of this additional time to schooling, they are deprived of their future capital. At the end of the combatant's journey, families come to de-school their children, or cross the border to enrol them in schools at our Swiss neighbour, in order to provide them with better care, thanks in particular to the ABA method – applied behavior analysis – which aims to combat autism disorders. Madam Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, access to the appropriate school must be the same for all children throughout our territory. You said a few months ago that you wanted to make schooling for children with disabilities "a top priority". Today, however, only solutions to the discount are offered to families and school inequalities are gaining ground. In a Europe in progress on the issue of disability, France acts as a bad pupil, both in terms of school inclusion and in terms of possible care. So what is your plan of action to solve this urgent problem and on what timetable?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u4	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u5	Madam Member, you are right: guaranteeing the right to quality schooling for all students with disabilities requires a profound transformation of both the education system and the medico-social offer. The Government has fully committed itself to this in an inter-ministerial manner. The problem of accompanying students alone cannot explain the difficulties of schooling of students with disabilities, especially those with autism spectrum disorder. Dedicated teaching units, like many other adaptations, are equally decisive. As a result, since the beginning of 2017, the Government has provided 50000 assisted jobs and created 8086 accompanying posts for students with disabilities – AESH. Job allocations cover the needs of nearly 164,000 notified students. That said, in some territories – particularly in Haute-Savoie, as you have noted, Madam – recruitment difficulties actually lead, for lack of candidates, to delays in posting. As regards the insufficient number of hours notified, it is necessary to distinguish between two types of aid: individualised human aid, which is the subject of a notification in the form of an hourly volume to be observed, and mutualised human aid, whose hourly volume is not defined and for which the use of time is the responsibility of the institution. In order to resolve the recurring difficulties of accompanying children, the Government has announced several measures aimed at enabling the school of the Republic to be fully inclusive, the first of which is to better inform, train and support teachers through online resources: a dedicated platform will enable, from next year, to find the necessary and sufficient information in order to better attend and accompany children with disabilities in three clicks. The Government also wants to increase and diversify school enrolment patterns and ensure that students leave school with a diploma or professional certification, because what drives us is the desire to improve their integration into society after school. We also want to support the provision of medical and social services to schools: this must be the responsibility of all, since this means implementing the Decree of 2 April 2009 on the schooling of disabled children, adolescents and young adults and on cooperation between medical and social institutions and national education. In addition, the Government wishes to improve the recruitment and organization of the support mechanism, or to transform the long-term support of students with disabilities – so that they can become more efficient as well as professionalised – and to limit the turn-over as much as possible, as it is truly detrimental to them and leads to ruptures of career paths. Accompaniment should not be the condition for the schooling and schooling of pupils with disabilities. It should not exempt schools from adapting, with the support of the medical and social sector, their educational conditions and their special educational needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u6	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for these elements. I really wanted to draw your attention to the distress of families, which is real. You highlighted the specific problem encountered in Haute-Savoie, namely the difficulty of recruiting, linked to the proximity of Switzerland. I naturally count on your vigilance to monitor the situation in this border territory and to find suitable solutions to accompany families. We must also, as you have pointed out, ensure that there is continuity in the support provided to children. Turnover is in itself a source of additional difficulties: children with disabilities need regular follow-up to evolve, provided by people they trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u8	Mrs Monique Limon, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 117, concerning the number of school assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u9	My question is to the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons. She agreed with what Mrs Duby-Muller had just said. Madam Secretary of State, you and all my colleagues are fully aware of the importance of school life aids for the regular schooling of students with disabilities. Through their presence in the classroom as well as in all school activities, the Auxiliary de vie scolaire – AVS – provides these students with continuous, adapted and human support – in a word, indispensable. During the September school year, the Government, as you recalled, increased the number of AVS staff to more than 80000, an increase of 11 per cent compared to the 2016 school year. This effort deserves recognition and recognition. However, the overall needs are far from being met and the situations we are informed about locally indicate the great concern of many families. In my constituency, for example, the parents of a second year elementary school student contacted me because his AVS has been on sick leave since October 9 and has not yet been replaced. In addition, there is no possibility of sharing AVS in the school she attends because the other two children who are followed there are not in the same class. It has therefore been four months since she could receive assistance during school time. The mistress herself pulled the alarm bell, insisting that this young child really needs an AVS. This is not an isolated case: in the north of the Isère, of which I am a native, fifty and one child who has received a notification from the CDMH of AVS is still not accompanied in practice. Thirty posts are currently vacant. The department departments of the Académie de Grenoble in charge of the school adaptation and the schooling of disabled pupils, whom I have contacted, have received a permission to recruit in single contract for the insertion of AVS, but only for eleven out of the thirty. The problem of recruitment is twofold, because it is not only necessary to find people with an aptitude for this profession, but also that their status allows them to benefit from the contracts of accompaniment in employment, or CAE. In Isère, as everywhere in France, the families concerned experience a feeling of misunderstanding but also, sometimes, of anger. They are not the only ones who feel this situation hard: it is also the case, of course, of the teaching staff, who try, as far as possible, to compensate for these prolonged absences. Madam Secretary of State, the inclusive society we are calling for requires us to give ourselves the means of our ambition. So, can you tell us if additional funding will be provided or redeployed to open more AVS positions to meet real and urgent needs? What measures are you planning to take to overcome the shortage of candidates and to value the State diploma of educational and social accompanying, the DEAES?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u10	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u11	Yes, Madam Member, the support of students with disabilities has been a recurring problem for more than 15 years: every school year, and throughout the year, students remain waiting for support. These problems are linked to the increase in the requirements of the CDMH – at a rate of 13% per year – which makes it difficult to adjust the means. They also come from the constraints of eligibility for the two accompanying statuses – assisted jobs, accompanying students with disabilities – and the low attractiveness of these jobs. The measures taken under the previous legislature to professionalize the accompanying persons did not improve the situation. From the beginning of 2017, the Government, as I have already indicated, has sanitized 50,000 assisted jobs and created 8086 AESH positions to support 164,000 students with disabilities. With more than 165,000 students who received a notification at the end of December 2017, the job endowments cover the demand. So, as you pointed out, Member, this is a recruitment problem. In some academies, such as Grenoble – but it is also true, we have just seen it, in Haute-Savoie – the difficulties of recruitment actually lead, for lack of candidates, to unacceptable periods of assignment for students with disabilities as well as for their families. In order to resolve this recurring difficulty, in liaison with the Minister of National Education, and in line with the various announcements concerning inclusive school, the Government has taken several measures that will be implemented from April 2018: inspection mission to assess the territorial disparities of the scheme – which are large, and quite inexplicable, between mutualised AVS and individual aids – and to advocate improvements; much faster transformation of assisted jobs into AESH, which will represent – a guarantee both of professionalisation and of the sustainability of staff working with students with disabilities – 4,500 jobs; easing the conditions for recruitment and transformation of assisted jobs; Finally, a large-scale active recruitment campaign in the areas and territories in tension, in conjunction with Pôle Emploi. In addition to these short-term measures, the Government plans to transform this system in a sustainable manner in order to improve its quality and make the profession more attractive, the only way to act against the turn-over and the recurrent recruitment difficulties which, unfortunately, currently characterize it. Madam Member, you can count on our full determination to work on a real quality of the journey.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u12	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u13	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you very much for your reply, which confirms my willingness to move forward together on this subject. Indeed, training courses are of great importance in the field of assistance to the person in the broad sense: opportunities exist, as we see. The adaptation of our societies to dependency is already a major challenge; It necessarily involves quality information at the time of orientation and requires strengthening the link – sometimes even creating it – between the professional environment and training institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u14	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, who will address Question No 105 by Mr Xavier Breton, concerning the situation of EHPADs in the department of Ain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u15	I am speaking on behalf of my two fellow Members of the Ain, Xavier Breton, who was initially to ask this question but who is prevented, and Damien Abad. Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, on this day of national movement of staff of residential institutions for dependent elderly – the EHPAD – we draw your attention to the situation of the department of Ain, which is indeed worrying: the increase in the level of dependency of residents in EHPAD increases the workload of healthcare workers. The understaffing weighs heavily on working conditions, and the sharp decline in aided contracts, voted by your majority during the review of the 2018 finance bill, will contribute to further weakening a large number of institutions. While Europe has an average rate of one agent per resident, the rate of supervision in France is only 0.6. This deterioration in working conditions in the EHPADs leads to the exhaustion of staff, to a real suffering at work, and can result, despite their dedication, in a serious deterioration in the care of our dependent elderly. Minister, families are worried. The solution cannot come from an increase in daily rates, which already represent an expenditure of more than 1,800 euros per month in the Ain, higher than most retirement pensions. The departmental council of Ain, for its part, has reached the limits of its financial effort: 42 million euros per year, by adding the personalized autonomy allowance, social assistance for accommodation and investment grants to institutions. In these circumstances, it is up to the State to assume its responsibilities. Minister, what is the Government planning to do to address this serious crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u16	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u17	Mr President, the question of the difficulties faced by residential institutions for dependent elderly people rightly takes an important place in the public debate. It has been one of my priorities since I joined the Government. The problems you are highlighting have been anticipated, since many measures have already been adopted last December as part of the Social Security Funding Bill. With regard to the funding model, the ongoing reform, launched in 2017, is a fair reform, which the State will support by increasing by more than €400 million the funds allocated to EHPAD, in particular for the financing of care. I will appoint a mediator very soon to shed light on the figures for this reform and to link the administration with the federations. I would like to refer in more detail to the measures contained in the Social Security Financing Act for 2018, which you adopted last December, because they are important. An additional €72 million has been allocated to recruit staff this year and to improve care; €10 million to increase the presence of nurses at night; An additional €28 million has been earmarked to support EHPADs in financial difficulty – in practice, this envelope will be directed towards public institutions; Finally, I announced the release of EUR 50 million of funds by the regional health agencies to support EHPADs on an ad hoc basis. In total, this year there will be an additional EUR 160 million to carry out actions targeted at EHPADs in difficulty, thus addressing concerns about the decline in funding. At the same time, I have asked the regional health agencies, in liaison with the departmental councils, to give priority consideration to the situation of the identified EHPADs, with a view in particular to providing them with exceptional support. I would point out that the effects of the tariff reform also depend on how departments apply the text and finance their share through the personalized autonomy allocation, the APA. For the future, and from 2019 onwards, I want to support EHPAD transformation efforts, improve the quality of life at work and strengthen the mechanisms for promoting and controlling quality and well-contracting. Measures to this end have been announced. My will is clearly to put in place a sustainable organizational model, which will guarantee a quality offer throughout the country, tailored to the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u18	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u19	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer, even if it leaves me a little on my hunger. I would like the mission officers you mentioned – the mediator, the delegation of the ARS – to come and meet with the departmental council of the Ain. We would be prepared to answer all their questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u20	Mr Vigier has the floor to put his question, No. 124, concerning the hospital centre in Châteaudun.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u21	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to draw your attention to the situation at Châteaudun Hospital in the department of Eure-et-Loir. A few weeks ago, you accompanied Prime Minister Edward Philippe to Châlus. During this visit, he gave important sentences: "The Republic must guarantee equal access to care for its citizens, wherever they live in France. The current situation is...a real breach of equality for those who, because they simply have the misfortune to live in the wrong place, cannot quickly access medical care." If I quote these words, it is that, as you know – we have already had the opportunity to talk about it together – the department of Eure-et-Loir is, in this matter, one of the most affected in France; There are 87 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, both private and public. Our hospital, which is in the process of being integrated into a hospital group of territory including also the hospitals of Chartres, Dreux and Nogent-le-Rotrou, is unfortunately the victim of a gradual dismantling of its services: after the cardiology and part of the pneumology, it is today the maternity which is announced to us the closure. However, there are as many as 366 births, and there have never been any accidents. We come to this maternity from 142 communes around Châteaudun, even from the departments of Loiret and Loir-et-Cher. So we took the bull by the horns, with the health professionals of the hospital, those of the private sector, the users and the elected ones, in order to build an alternative territory project. The hospital is located, Madam Minister, in the heart of a living pool of 57,000 inhabitants; It is 50 minutes or 1 hour away by car from Orléans - La Source and 50 minutes from Chartres. How can we imagine that we do not have a motherhood that can accommodate women who wish to give birth there? We have therefore taken an active step. We have asked the regional health agency for three months, and we will be ready in late February or early March to demonstrate that an alternative project is possible. An online petition shows the visceral attachment of the inhabitants of the territory to this maternity; It has already collected more than 15,000 signatures. I ask you to trust us, to give us some time, so that the words spoken by the Prime Minister can be resonated, because there must be local services in the territories. Of course, it is not about having all the specialties – but who can claim that cardiology, pneumology, emergencies or maternity are not vital elements of a hospital? If the hospital in Châteaudun lost them, it would no longer be a general hospital, it would be just a nearby hospital. I am telling you all this with great seriousness, minister, by being aware that this is a challenge – but I am sure we can do it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u22	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u23	Member of Parliament, the hospital in Châteaudun is a nearby hospital, and it will remain so; the term "neighbourhood" refers precisely to the objective of meeting the needs of the populations concerned in a concrete way. An establishment such as Châteaudun's hospital centre has its place in the gradation of the offer of care that we set up within the framework of the hospital groups of territory. It is therefore being thought of in complementarity with hospitals carrying larger technical trays, and in close connection with city care. With regard to maternity, the latter has long been confronted with problems of safety, organisation and, above all, medical continuity, with a decline in activity. However, when it comes to maternity, safety is, and must remain, our top priority. All international studies show this: safety in the field of maternity is closely linked to the level of activity of the service. I hear the demands that are expressed and that you are relaying. The transformation of maternity into a perinatal centre does not mean a weakening of the hospital or of the provision of care, on the contrary. The development of a project with all stakeholders is under way. This approach was endorsed last November by the regional health agency, in conjunction with the hospital's management. I can only welcome this willingness to take a participatory approach with the actors in the hospital, whose proposals will enrich the overall thinking currently being carried out by the institution's management on the medical project and the gradation of care. I hope, Mr President, that the current reflections will lead to the result of providing the people of the Dunois basin with access to effective, sustainable and secure care.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u24	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u25	The transformation of maternity into a perinatal centre will result in the closure of the operating room. It has now been a year and a half since the regional health agency promised us outpatient surgery. As I speak to you, there is still nothing, although a prospective study has been done. Why? Because we have never received any support from the Chartres hospital centre or the territory hospital group, doctors refusing to travel to our home. Madam Minister, we will not allow ourselves to be done. We can only work in a climate of trust; But today, it's organized mistrust. You are right: safety must be the rule – but for that, when a gynaecologist wishes to work in this hospital, his request is relayed by management, which is not the case, as you know, since I had to contact your office directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u26	Mr Christophe Naegelen, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 125, concerning the fight against Lyme disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u27	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, Lyme disease officially affects 27,000 new people every year. Some associations even believe that the figure would actually be ten times higher. Difficulties encountered by patients with Lyme bcorliosis begin immediately after screening. The diagnosis carried out using the immuno-enzymatic method ELISA – enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay – imposed in France since 2006 poses many problems, as the test is unreliable and is less effective than the one used in Germany, where ten times more cases are officially recorded. However, the disease can become chronic if the diagnosis is late or even non-existent and causes neurological, cardiac, joint and dermatological disorders. Once the disease has been detected, patient management is not satisfactory. For some, the traditionally recommended methods are not effective and the care path is not suitable for treating sometimes unbearable pain, which forces them to go to therapies in Germany, where the results are much better. Finally, Lyme bcorliosis is not considered a long-term condition, which deprives patients of proper management and full reimbursement of treatment. In this context, could you, Madam Minister, take stock of the implementation of the national plan to combat Lyme disease, supposed to have been launched in January 2017? Can you confirm that the results of the work on the development of a national diagnostic and care protocol, carried forward since July 2017, will be well communicated in time? What is the nature of it? Finally, I would like to submit to you the idea of recognizing Lyme disease as a chronic disease in order to relieve the lives of many patients and to provide them with long-term care for them. What is the Government's position on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u28	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u29	MP, the national plan to combat Lyme disease and tick-borne diseases was launched in 2016. It comprises five strategic axes and 15 actions. The main challenge is to better diagnose Lyme disease in its various forms. Current serological tests are effective when they are performed in the right shooting window. Apart from these cases, we probably need to develop new, more innovative diagnostic tests. Research projects are underway – but this is an issue that goes beyond our borders. In France, the situation is very different depending on the regions. High incidence rates are recorded in Alsace: with 232 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, they are very close to the values recorded in Germany. They are weaker in other regions. The High Health Authority has been seized with a view to drawing up a national diagnostic and care protocol, a PNDS, which will optimize the journeys and harmonise the management and monitoring of the disease throughout the territory, in order to avoid the medical error suffered by some patients. The work will be done on 8 March, after a broad consultation of the learned societies. The Steering Committee will meet at the end of March to present the final version of the NDSP. As soon as the latter is finalized, the regional health agencies will designate specialized centres for the care of patients in the regions, in order to allow for the follow-up of patients near their home. Specialized consultations are already taking place, particularly in the east, in Nancy and Strasbourg, as well as in Nantes. I hope, Mr President, that all this information will provide you with some comfort for the families and the people who are victims of this disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u30	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I wanted to draw your attention to the distress and the sense of abandonment of the sick, as well as to the particular case of the Vosges, which is one of the most affected departments of France. My constituency is also bordering Alsace, which you mentioned. Because of the geographical location of the Vosges and the large number of patients there, it would be necessary to develop a service close to the victims. You mentioned the creation of specialized centres; I would appreciate it if you could take into account the particular situation of the Vosges in the regional health plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u32	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, to put his question, No. 100, concerning the hospital centre in Cayenne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u33	"At Cayenne Hospital, walls are stained with black spots. Wastewater from the orthopaedic toilets flow into the resuscitation rooms. In some corridors, mould takes over. Small ferns-like plants are now coming out of ducts. Bird's fientes dotted some of the passageways in the open air. Sometimes the rubbish piles up. Thus began, Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, an article published by the newspaper Le Point last April, as Guyana was going through the most serious social crisis in its history. This crisis continued until June 2017 with a strike, also historic, by the staff of this hospital. This movement will not have been in vain, since it led to the signing, under your authority, of a memorandum of understanding which was to lay the foundations for a new start for the public hospital service in Guyana. Unfortunately, the euphoria of victory has since left room for disillusionment in the face of a situation that is always catastrophic and which sees the difficulties of the hospital of Cayenne continue to make the cabbages of the local press, despite the great efforts made by the staff of this institution to meet the needs of the patients. After the return on the commitment to equip Maripasoula with a hospital, announced by the President of the Republic himself during his recent visit to Guyana, it is now a possible refusal of the modernisation plan presented by the hospital Andrée Rosemon to the interministerial committee on the performance and modernization of the offer of care that is being discussed, with the negative consequences that this implies in terms of investments or even hirings, for this centre, which is, for many specialties, the only health structure available to the Guyanese population. It is intended to become, in the medium term, a university hospital centre. These are the reasons why, Madam Minister, I ask you to reassure us of the Government's willingness to implement the commitments made under the June 2017 Protocol to End the Conflict and, more broadly, to offer Guyanans a public hospital offer that is worthy of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u34	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u35	Mr President, first of all I would like to express to you my gratitude for the dedication of the staff of the institution you have spoken of. The Interdepartmental Committee on Performance and Modernisation of Care Delivery – COPERMO – at its meeting on 19 December last confirmed the State's support for the institution's investment plan to the tune of €40 million. This assistance, which must cover all the institution's heavy investment needs for the coming years, will in particular help to modernise the critical care platform and improve the reception conditions in several outsourced health and prevention centres. At the same time, COPERMO has asked the management of the Andrée Rosemon hospital to work towards the development of a sustainable financial trajectory, which will allow the establishment to make the opening of additional beds and equipment coherent. This will be made possible by the investments I have just mentioned, with the recruitment of civil servants provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding of June 2017. At the end of the first half of 2018, the Committee will ensure the effectiveness of these commitments by again reviewing the finalized investment plan and the institution's multi-year strategy. The robustness of the assumptions on which the proposed development plan is based and the relevance of the medical projects of the territory and the establishment in their response to the health needs of the population will of course be decisive elements of COPERMO's follow-up to this issue. The Government is therefore paying particular attention to this establishment in Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u36	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u37	I have listened to your answer with great attention, minister, and thank you for that for Guyanese patients and especially for the staff, who have a heavy responsibility. However, with regard to the provision of hospital care in Guyana, we are leaving very far. That is why I will continue, as much as possible and whenever necessary, to speak to your ministry. The medical density in Guyana, which I have carefully considered, is only 55 general practitioners per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 104 per 100,000 in hexagonal France. The gap is still widening for specialist doctors, with a density of 27 per 100,000, compared to 94 per 100,000 in hexagonal France. That is to say, how much the term "medical desert" makes sense in this territory. I therefore hope that the recommendations you make today will improve its attractiveness, as well as the care of patients by the staff who are responsible for them. I await the continuation of the protocol, according to the timetable you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u38	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 101, concerning the nautical sector in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u39	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the difficulties of the big pleasure industry in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. I associate my colleague Geneviève Levy, Member of Parliament for Toulon, with this inquiry. A centre of excellence in the local economic fabric, both in terms of attractiveness and in terms of the number of jobs created, this sector faces great difficulties. A real economic deposit for the territory with more than 8000 jobs and 100 million euros invested in the work tool in ten years, the boating industry has become a major source of activity for TPEs and SMEs. However, it has to face great difficulties. Thus, the shipyards of the region are demarcated, like Monaco Marine and Compositeworks, in La Ciotat, which has just lost the construction of a 152-metre unit, which will be carried out in Spain. It must be noted that our industry no longer manufactures yachts or super-yachts of more than 30 meters. Beyond the business situation, it should be noted that a moored yacht is also a source of activity for businesses and services. For example, a 50-metre yacht is estimated to cause an average runoff of some 30000 euros per day in the local economy. The difficulties we are talking about here are underpinned by decisive disparities in taxation and social charges between France and its neighbours. As a result, the 2017 season resulted in a loss of profits of more than 200 million euros on our coast, from Marseille to Menton, whether it is sales losses in repair yards or economic losses for hotels, restaurants, harbour squares, associated services, lubricants or fuel. The finance law for 2018, which increases the francization fees and the passport fee for ships over 30 metres, will obviously make the situation even worse. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take before it is too late, so that activities related to pleasure craft are no longer so penalized in our country in relation to our European partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u40	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u41	Mr. Member of Parliament, you draw the Government's attention to the difficulties faced by the Grand Pleasure sector, particularly in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. The evolution of the criteria for exemption from VAT and excise duties for energy products used as fuel or fuel on board ships is the result of two judgments delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is therefore in line with a view to European harmonisation. Indeed, the commercial use of the vessel is valued at the end-user level. In these circumstances, France had to amend its rules in order to comply with European law. This change, which took place on 1 October 2016 – almost five years after the judgments mentioned – was the subject of prior information to professionals. In addition, energy products consumed by ships used for commercial purposes, in particular for the transport of persons, remain exempt from domestic consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – and VAT. With regard to shipyard activity, a number of measures have been taken and confirmed. In particular, an exemption from TICEP for fuels for engines of ships used in the construction, development, development, testing or maintenance of ships and their engines was introduced in the last Finance Act. As regards the social protection of sailors, they are covered by a special scheme for sickness and old age insurance, together with the National Institution of Invalids of the Navy – ENIM. They already benefit from a largely derogatory social system with the maintenance of adequate social security. Depending on the activity of the ships, employers or shipowners are also eligible for certain specific contribution exemptions or general contribution relief schemes which will be strengthened from 1 January 2019. From that date, these reductions will take the form of a permanent reduction of social contributions by six points for remuneration not exceeding SMIC 2.5 and of a strengthening of the general scheme for the reduction of social contributions and extended social contributions to unemployment and supplementary pension contributions. The aim of this strengthening is precisely to promote employment and to support the competitiveness of our businesses, including in the nautical industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u42	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u43	Our region, Mr. Secretary of State, has long lived in the navy of war and has ensured an economic transition, especially by turning to great pleasure. You rightly recalled the European judgment on taxation; But France is applying it very rigorously, which is not the case for Italy and Spain. One of two things, therefore: either France is less rigorous in the application of this judgment, or we must put pressure on the European Union, so that Italy and Spain apply the surtax. Competition must be fair between France and its Mediterranean neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u44	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to put his question, No 106, on toxic borrowing by local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u45	I wish, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, to draw your attention to the situation of communities that have signed loan contracts or financial contracts at risk, i.e. "toxic borrowings." These loans have long been at the heart of current affairs, especially during the financial crisis that has hit our country and the world in recent years. A support fund, governed by the July 22, 2015 Order, has been established to protect communities that are victims of toxic borrowing. On 2 June 2017, the Government issued an order amending these provisions. The new text states that the aid granted shall be paid "within the limits of the annual appropriations available". Many communities are concerned about this writing. In Marignane, in my constituency, the mayor, Mr. Éric Le Dissès, took over the city at the National Front in 2008 and remedied the situation; In 2014, Roland Mouren, in Châteauneuf-les-Martigues, also found himself confronted with the problem of toxic borrowing. Both have been alerted by specialist lawyers about the risk of the new order. Should we therefore expect a reduction in compensation for the communities, as seems possible under the terms of this Order? What analysis does the Government make of this case?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u46	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u47	I will endeavour, Mr. Member, to respond to the concerns that you have conveyed to the Government. The support fund for structured financial loans and contracts has to date committed more than €2.5 billion in aid to 578 communities. The law entrusts to a dedicated body, the National Steering and Monitoring Committee, chaired by Senator Claude Raynal, the task of developing the doctrine of use of the fund. For the sake of good management, and while the payment of the aid is extended until 2028 under the original texts, this committee proposed a faster settlement of the so-called "small amount" aid, i.e. less than EUR 100,000. The idea is to ensure that the aid is paid at one time, whenever necessary. The decree of 2 June 2017 amending the decree of 22 July 2015 only endorses this proposal of the National Guidance and Monitoring Committee, thus opening the possibility of paying the aid at one time rather than spread out until 2028. As is the practice, the text covers this possibility by the existence of available appropriations, hence the formula dedicated: "within the limits of the annual appropriations available". This does not mean that the aid will be reduced or called into question, but that the Government authorizes, by the new decree, the National Committee to pay the small amount of aid at one time, provided that the funds are sufficient. If they are insufficient, the payment remains spread over several years. Thus, in 2017, no single case was closed, so that the aid will be spread over several years, until the entire expenditure is covered. You can therefore reassure those who have questioned you: the statement "within the limits of the annual appropriations available" applies to the budget year concerned, but the commitments of the State will be kept until 2028. Furthermore, the sole objective of the decree of 2 June 2017 is, I repeat, to allow the National Guidance and Monitoring Committee to close the files at one time rather than in successive instalments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u48	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u49	I'll be very brief. Your clear, clear and precise answer, Secretary of State, is likely to dispel all the risks of misunderstanding raised by the June 2017 Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u50	Mrs Zannier has the floor to raise her question, No 118, on the taxation of temporary cross-border employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u51	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, my question concerns the application to cross-border temporary employees of the 1959 Franco-German Tax Convention, which provides for a special status for taxation on the income of frontier workers. In order to avoid double taxation, the latter may be taxed only in their State of residence. According to the French tax administration, they are therefore exempt from income tax in Germany. This status was subsequently extended to temporary border workers, under certain conditions, as evidenced by a ministerial response of January 1, 2001. However, the application of this Convention raises some difficulties. In my constituency of eastern Moselle, thousands of people cross the border every day to work in Germany. Some have told me about these difficulties, which have also been relayed by associations for the defence of cross-border workers. Border temporary workers are unable to obtain the necessary exemption certificates and are subject to income tax in Germany, where this tax is levied at source. It is only a posteriori that these workers can obtain the refund of the tax wrongly levied, by demonstrating that they fall within the scope of the frontier workers' regime. This practice, you know, Secretary of State, causes administrative and financial difficulties for temporary workers with already precarious status. So, Mr Secretary of State, if the interpretation of the Franco-German tax convention that I have given is correct, what does the Government intend to implement to facilitate its application?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u52	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u53	Madam Member, you are asking the Government about its interpretation of the amended Franco-German tax convention of 21 July 1959, which provides that the wages and salaries of temporary workers are taxable in the State in which they work and in the State in which they reside, subject to non-double taxation, except for those who benefit from the frontier workers' regime and are taxable only in the State in which they reside. In the case of temporary frontier workers residing in France, before giving up such taxation and exempting the employer from withholding tax, the German administration shall ensure that the conditions for the application of the frontier workers' regime are met, which may be difficult to establish a priori. The German tax services make the exemption from withholding tax levied on German income received by the persons concerned subject to two conditions: on the one hand, the employee must have worked in the past year for a single temporary agency and must intend to work for the same agency in the current year; On the other hand, he must have benefited from the border workers' regime for the past year and must, in all probability, be active for the current year only in the border area. Failing this, Germany shall ex-postly reimburse the tax paid locally, thus allowing compliance with the Franco-German tax convention and the absence of double taxation. This answer will certainly not satisfy all the workers who interviewed you, Member. As part of the discussions between France and Germany, the Minister of Economy and Finance will be able to take on board the elements you have put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u54	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u55	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply, which will reassure many temporary cross-border workers facing these difficulties in interpreting the Convention. I am very pleased to learn that negotiations are under way with Germany to try to facilitate its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u56	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to put his question, No 107, on vocational training in the building industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u57	My question is for the Minister of National Education. The advent of new technologies affects many areas, including construction and materials. We know that the raw material of sand is likely to be quickly in short supply if we do not react. As such, we must welcome the increasing use of bio-sourced materials, which change the way the home is designed, while not necessarily being more expensive. All these aspects, from design to realization, are very technical and must now be completely rethought in order to adapt to the challenges and benefits of new technologies. In order to allow the continuity of French know-how in the building, these aspects should be mastered by anyone wishing to set up a company in this field, drawing on the model of Michel and Augustin who, while launching their French pastry business, also hold a certificate of professional fitness – CAP – in this field. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of National Education whether it would be useful to require people who wish to set up a company in the building to hold specific training – a certificate of professional studies, a vocational qualification or a CAP, provided that they raise the level of the latter – in other words, to abolish the possibility of setting up a BTP company with only three years of professional experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u59	Mr. Deputy, the Government does not fully share the concerns that you express. I hope that the elements I bring will allow you to be reassured about the level of qualification of building contractors. As you have said, construction, maintenance and repair companies are subject to an obligation of professional qualification, provided for in article 16 of the Act of 5 July 1996. As such, their activity must be carried out under the effective and permanent control of a person who either holds a degree at level V or higher, which corresponds to a diploma at the CAP or BEP level; or, as you mentioned, there is a three-year professional experience in the profession. You consider that this requirement is not sufficient, and that it would be appropriate to increase the level of qualification required in view of the new techniques used in the building sector. For the Government, this change is not necessarily timely, for three reasons. The first is the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which allows the legislator to impose restrictions on freedom to undertake on the double condition that they are justified by the general interest and proportionate to the objective pursued. The level of professional qualification required must therefore be justified by the objective of protecting the health and safety of persons pursued by the legislator and must be proportionate to the risks involved. The construction sector is subject to strict and sufficient technical supervision to ensure a high level of protection of human health and safety. Today, to our knowledge, there is no study of risks that would be associated with a level of qualification requirement that is too low. The second reason is that this measure would be detrimental to businesses. The construction sector is growing and creating jobs. By requiring a higher-level diploma, the independent exercise of this activity would be prohibited for persons with only a level V diploma, which makes us concerned about the consequences for employment. The third and last reason why an increase in the minimum level of initial training required does not seem appropriate is that it would not ensure that construction companies take full advantage of new technologies and new construction products. Lifelong learning and voluntary certification approaches such as the RGE label – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – which gives professionals a special expertise in energy efficiency, allow them to understand these new issues and technologies more than the reinforcement of initial training, regardless of the initial level of qualification. I hope, Mr. Millienne, that these elements will have enabled you to understand why the Government does not consider your proposal to be timely today. Nevertheless, the Government remains extremely attentive to the conditions under which these professions, like all others, are exercised, as well as to the qualifications required.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u60	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u61	Mr Secretary of State, I can hear your answer, which I fully understand. I just wanted to alert the Government that due to the planned absence of sand by 2050, we will increasingly use bio-sourced materials whose work requires a very important technicality, which means training at the height.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u62	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u63	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u64	Mr Lionel Causse, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 122, concerning the situation of management staff in primary and nursery schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u65	Minister of National Education, for several years, the situation of school principals should alert your ministry and academic inspections. The latter, in some departments, propel to the head of the institutions, as soon as they leave the Higher School of Faculty and Education – ESPE –, teachers of the new schools, too often devoid of the retreat required by the expertise useful for the success of this mission. This leads to questions about the attractiveness of this function within our education system. My question therefore relates to the situation of primary and nursery school principals, and to the recognition of the specific skills induced by their responsibilities in addition to their teaching duties. Former mayor, I know the strength of their commitment. I have recently been asked by directors and directors in my constituency who are concerned that they will no longer be able to carry out their duties properly, for lack of time each time necessary to move from an administrative approach to an expert approach. Needless to say, the slowing down in the use of assisted contracts has meant that many of them have lost support for administrative tasks. They now have to take on these tasks alone, even though their expertise is being sought in order to implement the program that we have defended before the voters and while they are implementing on the ground flagship measures that we believe in, including the duplication of CP classes in certain territories or the establishment of special safety plans – PPMS – in all schools. Have any measures been taken to compensate for each loss of assisted employment corresponding to an administrative support post for principals? Furthermore, what is the state of your thinking on the creation of a management staff status for teachers assuming this mission in the first degree?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u66	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u67	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question on a very important subject – because school principals play a fundamental role in our country – and give me the opportunity to discuss several aspects. First of all, the current role of principals. It is essential, and corresponds to a tradition of our school that it is a teacher among the teachers who agrees to assume this function. Today, managers benefit from a service discharge in 65% of schools, or 29828 out of 45877. This discharge enables a number of responsibilities to be exercised, but it is true that school principals often feel overwhelmed by all the tasks requested of them. Other instruments, it seems to me important to remind them, allow them to carry out their duties. They thus benefit from new IT tools: I am thinking of the new ONDE application – a digital tool for school management – a professional tool that has simplified day-to-day management, which is essential in the daily lives of school principals, by allowing automation and dematerialization of current procedures and by facilitating the link with families. Academic services are also involved in reorganising the administrative support of schools, notably through shared secretarial platforms: this is another very important point. As far as the competence of principals is concerned, we must stress our efforts in the field of initial and continuing training. Thus, at the end of their first year of practice, school principals receive an additional three days of training, based on exchanges and analyses of professional practices. In addition, the initial training consists of an internship aimed at the study of the communal and intercommunal administration. In addition, the issue of compensation, which is also important, must be addressed. We have upgraded the overall compensation regime of a director, which is now between 2414 and 4894 euros for a school of ten or more classes. Finally, with regard to career prospects, the enrolment in the annual promotion table for access to the grade of the exceptional class of teachers in schools is open to those who assume the function of school principal. This set of elements gives the general picture, which therefore has positive aspects, to support school principals in the performance of their duties. But obviously there is still some progress to be made, as you said. First, in the short term, it is the issue of administrative assistance to school principals, which involves national education, but also local authorities, since they are the main providers of such assistance. In any case, the previous situation was not very satisfactory: the aided contracts, in this area as in others, did not correspond to the real needs. So, as you said, we need to reflect on a new administrative reality in schools. This file will be opened in the coming times. Among the possible avenues – that is the meaning of the proposals of many local authority officials that I receive – is the articulation between the college and the school in administrative matters, to give more administrative strength to the primary school. We will probably launch experiments to see what a reinforced school management gives. It's not the only lead. In any case, the question of the administrative direction of schools, i.e. the status of schools and the administrative function within them, has a considerable number of implications and must therefore be addressed in the context of the overall reflection we are currently undertaking on primary school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u68	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your clarifications and answers. I agree with almost all of your comments, especially with regard to aided contracts, which did not provide a lasting solution and which obviously needed to evolve. Be aware that directors and directors will participate in the reflection you will launch to evolve and recognize their status and work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u70	I call Mr Aleksandr Holroyd to speak on his question, No 112, concerning the retranscription in France of same-sex unions concluded in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u71	My question, which is addressed to Mrs Custody of Seals, relates to the situation of same-sex couples who entered into a civil partnership in the United Kingdom and subsequently converted into a marriage under British law. Many of these couples find it difficult to have their marriage transcribed in France: the French administration contests its retranscription in our civil status although the conversion to marriage is entirely legal from the point of view of British law, in which it was carried out. In this type of case, the French law makes it clear, however, that it also takes into account the unions concluded "according to the forms used" in the country in question, which corresponds to the situation we are talking about. Several Franco-British couples face this obstacle and see no other solution to their problem but the prospect of litigation with the Nantes Public Prosecutor's Office or of a divorce followed by a remarriage in France. In a reply dated 19 October 2017 to a letter I sent to her, Ms.Secretariat of the Seals indicated that under sections 171-1, 171-8 and 171-2 of the Civil Code, there were several obstacles to this transcript, particularly with respect to personal appearance and advertising requirements. In many cases, however, these conditions are met when a civil partnership is concluded, which is subsequently converted into a marriage in the United Kingdom. What can the Government do to remedy this situation, which is very painful for the people concerned as it challenges the sincerity of their union? Could a regulatory or legislative amendment provide an appropriate solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u72	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u73	Mr President, I am going to reply to you instead of Mrs La Garde des Seales, who is asking you to excuse her for her absence this morning. Civil partnerships under English law can in principle produce their full effects in France, where they are assimilated to a civil pact of solidarity – PACS – in so far as Article 515-7-1 of the Civil Code states: "The conditions of formation and the effects of a registered partnership as well as the causes and effects of its dissolution are subject to the material provisions of the State of the authority which made its registration. » The difficulties encountered by some of our fellow citizens are due to the fact that English law now allows for the transformation of civil partnership into marriage, retroactively. Marriage contracted in a foreign country, whether between a Frenchman or between a Frenchman and a foreigner, is indeed valid in our country if it was celebrated according to the forms used in the country of celebration. Our right requires, however, that certain pre-marital formalities be completed when one of the spouses is French, i.e. the issuance of a certificate of marriageability and the publication of the banns. The marriage of a Frenchman also requires his presence, in accordance with article 146 (1) of the Civil Code, and he must be contracted publicly, in accordance with article 191 of the Code. Where these conditions are not met, the diplomatic or consular authority shall stay the transcription of the marriage and inform the public prosecutor. The personal appearance of the French spouse and the publicity make it possible to ascertain the reality of the consent of the French spouse. The intention of the legislator, who introduced in 1993 this basic condition of the presence of the spouses, was to combat marriages of convenience. In this regard, it is important to recall that, in the present state of the law, these conditions are logically appreciated on the day of the celebration of marriage, the date on which the marriage has its effect between the spouses. In French law, a marriage cannot have retroactive effects at a date prior to its celebration, unlike the legislation in the United Kingdom – the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013 provides that marriage resulting from the conversion of a civil partnership must be considered to have existed since the date of the formation of that partnership. However, we do not forget our many compatriots who live abroad. Of course, there is no question of questioning the sincerity of their commitment. The services responsible for the custody of seals will therefore begin a reflection with a view to determining whether the current obstacles are likely to be removed in order to take account of the marital situation of these Franco-British couples, in accordance with our international public order and our policy of combating marriages of convenience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u74	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u75	Thank you very much, Minister, for this commitment to launch a study on this issue. The number of French people living abroad has changed since the 1990s, and those living in the United Kingdom now represent the equivalent of the city of Bordeaux. In these circumstances, it seems to me imperative to remember the spirit of the law, beyond technical aspects and problems of regime transcription between countries – especially as close a partner as the United Kingdom is to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u76	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor to put his question, No. 116, on the reform of the justice system and the maintenance of the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u77	To this question, addressed to Mrs La Garde des Seales, I would like to associate my colleagues Frédérique Lardet, Marion Lenne and Véronique Riotton. The 2018 Finance Act foresees an increase of 2.9 per cent in appropriations allocated to the judiciary, which is higher than the average observed since 2012, reflecting the commitments made during election campaigns. However, as Mrs Garde des Seales has pointed out on many occasions, these additional appropriations will not be able to solve the current problems in a sustainable manner. In-depth reforms of our system are therefore needed; I would like to join Mrs. Keeper of the Seals on this point. In that regard, consideration was being given to a reform of the judicial map. The last reform in this area, launched in 2007, during Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, did not meet the expectations of justice professionals and citizens. It had initiated a series of court closures without really taking into account demographic data or local needs. In this context, the reform you announced concerns local actors. In Haute-Savoie, there are many fears about the closure of the Chambéry Court of Appeal and the Bonneville and Thonon-les-Bains High Courts. Their disappearance would not ensure equal access to justice of quality and proximity. So, can you give us more details about the objectives of this reform? During her visit to Nantes with the Prime Minister, the Keeper of the Seals announced that this reform would not lead to the closure of any place of justice and that the current mesh would be retained. Can you confirm that the Chambéry Court of Appeal and the Bonneville and Thonon-les-Bains High Courts are still in operation?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u78	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u79	Mr President, Mrs La Garde des Seales has often raised the issue of the reorganization of our judicial network. This is a very sensitive subject for our territories and for all the players in the judiciary. It launched on 5 October, together with the Prime Minister, the five justice projects, which reflect our desire to transform the justice of our country – which you stressed the need for. This is one of the main priorities of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, as evidenced by the increase in the budget for 2018 by 3.9% and the creation of 1000 jobs. With regard to the adaptation of the territorial organisation of justice, Nicole Belloubet asked two former presidents of the National Assembly's Law Committee, Messrs. Houillon and Raimbourg, to carry out a mission of consultation with all stakeholders on the issue of judicial organisation. They submitted their report on 15 January, after having received nearly 200 people, including, at their request, a delegation from the Chambéry Court of Appeal, composed of the Chiefs of Court and the Batnier Alain Marter. They listened to the proposals that were made and heard the fears and concerns. The desire to keep the seals is clear: the current mesh of our jurisdictions will be maintained and the proposals of the referents of this project go perfectly in this direction. All appellate courts will be maintained with a first president and a attorney general at their head. Concertation will now begin. The report proposes that a regional court of appeal should be assigned a role of coordination, regional leadership and budgetary control. As far as the courts of first instance are concerned, all will be retained. A reflection will be undertaken on the coherence of the judicial organization with the administrative level of the department. The report proposes the establishment, instead of the existing courts of instance and high instance, of local courts and courts of justice, based on the characteristics of the territories and the volumes and types of litigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u80	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u81	Thank you, Minister, for these clarifications, which will reassure citizens and all justice professionals. I am aware that a reorganization is necessary throughout the country. The high-ranking justice professionals, whom I will meet again, are working on the subject. I, for my part, stand at the full disposal of the department to work on it as well, particularly with regard to the High Savoyard component.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u82	Mrs Danièle Hérin has the floor to raise her question, No 113, concerning the creation of a CAPES or an aggregation of information technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u83	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I am aware of the importance you attach to the transition or rather to the digital revolution that is under way. It affects our daily behaviour and all sectors of the economy by creating new trades or changing existing trades. The challenge is both societal and economic. Therefore, computer science must enter the common core of skills of all citizens, as well as French or mathematics. As early as January 2016, President Obama launched the "Computer for All" program, stating that the student's basic knowledge was: "read, write, count and code." Although the term "coding" may not be the most appropriate, it is urgent to consider this knowledge as fundamental to children's learning and to ensure that computer education is provided at all levels. Digital companies are already suffering from a shortage of well-trained computer specialists. Efforts have been made to change the French education system, with the introduction of computer education in school, colleges and high schools. But they are fragmented and often heterogeneous from one establishment or territory to another. There is an urgent need to ensure that, as is the case in many other countries, computer science is recognized as a full discipline in schools; that a real dedicated faculty is recognized by the creation of a certificate of competence for second degree teaching faculty – CAPES – and of an aggregation in computer science; continuing training is developed in conjunction with the Ministry of Labour. Minister, what is your position on these three elements?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u84	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u85	Madam Member, you are making a lucid diagnosis of the challenges of information technology in our society and our economy. In this regard, since 8 December 2015, there is a CAPES computer option mathematics, half of which is related to computer science. The tests for this competition are defined by the decree of 2 November 2015, amending the decree of 19 April 2013 laying down the procedures for the organisation of CAPES competitions. This CAPES presents two options, a mathematical option and a computer option, for which two written eligibility tests and two oral admission tests are provided. At the eligibility stage, a first five-hour test consists of one or more study situations. The test consists of their treatment and allows to assess the knowledge of computer skills in the programme of the competition. She also asked for the candidate's reasoning skills, his ability to program, and his mastery of the French language. On admission, for the computer option, the test consists of a candidate's presentation followed by an interview with the jury. It draws on the curricula of the computer and digital sciences specializations of the general and technological lycée, the applied algorithmic sections of the higher technicians, as well as the theme "algorithmics and programming" present in the mathematics programs of the college. The concepts dealt with in these programmes must be able to be addressed with a step back corresponding to the master level. Moreover, with regard to the aggregation of mathematics, since 2006 there has been a specific option, option D, which allows to compete, at the admission stage, in three computer tests: basic computing, computer modelling and, since 2014, computer system analysis. It is a test that requires in particular the mastery of a programming language: Java, C or Python – among others. As you can see, neither higher education nor secondary education is indifferent to the issue of computer education. Since the new CAPES has recently been created, it is necessary to allow it to mature again before assessing its scope and, if necessary, to deepen the scope of the competitions that could be opened for the recruitment of professors in this discipline. This will have to be thought in a coordinated way with the reform of the baccalaureate and high school, which is under discussion, where computer skills will undoubtedly be an asset for our young people. On the other hand, our ability to retain computer scientists in the public service, who, as you know, are extremely courted in France and abroad, is a central issue that we will also have to worry about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u86	Mrs Danièle Herin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u87	Thank you, Minister. There is indeed a computer option at CAPES as well as at the aggregation of mathematics. However, it has been seen for several years – and the trend is growing – that the business community is calling for the development of computer education and recognition of the discipline itself. If the current mathematics CAPES computer option and the new aggregation are advances, we need to go further. Academic and professional circles would like computer science to become a subject in its own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u88	Mr Charles de la Verpillière, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No 103, concerning the fund for assistance from the municipalities which are members of an electricity union.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u89	I would like the Minister of the Interior to confirm that the municipalities which are members of an inter-municipal electricity union governed by Article L. 5212-24 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities may pay assistance funds to the trade union, when it carries out public works of any kind in their territory, in accordance with its statutes. The applicable text is Article L. 5212-26 of the same Code, which states: "In order to finance the construction or operation of local public equipment, assistance funds may be paid between a trade union referred to in Article L. 5212-24 and the municipalities or public institutions of intercommunal cooperation members". Not all prefectures have applied this article in the same way: some accept the payment of competition funds by the municipalities to the union, when others refuse it. Yet the text is clear. The use of the generic terms "local public equipment" clearly shows that municipalities can finance not only the work on electricity distribution networks, but also all the work that the union carries out in their territory, most often at their request, within the framework of the union's optional competences – for example, public lighting, gas distribution or heat networks. In addition, the preparatory work for the law of 7 December 2010, known as the "NOME Law", at the origin of this drafting, goes in the same direction. If, by way of exception, this interpretation which I believe is derived from the text itself was not accepted, could the minister indicate whether the participation of the municipalities concerned could then take the form of an adjustment of their individual contribution to the union's budget on a case-by-case basis? This possibility had been mentioned in a ministerial response published on 19 February 2009 in the "questions series" edition of the Senate of the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u90	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u91	Mr. Member, Mr. Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, would like to apologise for his absence. He asked me to give you the following answer. As you know, the role of community groups is to exercise the skills in place of their members. The municipality and the group cannot simultaneously be competent. This principle of exclusivity is one of the conditions necessary for the clarity of our local organization. Competition funds are a derogation from this principle and are therefore only possible under strict conditions. They are authorized by law only in the case of public institutions of interdepartmental cooperation with own taxation. For other groups, they are allowed only in very specific cases. In the present case, Article L. 5212-24 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities refers to trade unions exercising the competence of organizing authority for the public distribution of electricity. Therefore, the purpose of this article limits the use of competition funds to the exercise of powers in the field of electricity distribution, excluding the other powers that the union might exercise. The provisions of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities therefore do not allow the financing by contribution funds to be opened up to other powers exercised by an electricity union. The law, for example, expressly authorized the payment of competition funds between an open joint union competent to establish and operate electronic communications networks and its members, but only for the establishment of such a network, with the exception of operating expenses, with the aim of promoting the expansion of digital development structures. Moreover, the competence of the organizing authority of the electricity distribution network is a specific competence, distinct for example from that of public lighting. Therefore, and as you mentioned, in the event that an electricity union needs funding for the exercise of powers other than that relating to the distribution of electricity, the trade union council has every opportunity to vote for an increase in the amount of its members' contribution. Thus, the contributory shares of the members may also be adjusted according to the nature of the work carried out by the union or their location, in the framework of the voting of the statutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u92	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u93	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, but I am not entirely satisfied with it because I believe that this will complicate investment in rural areas, where the municipalities agree to participate in financing when energy unions do not have the means to act alone; In terms of spatial planning, this is a bad solution. Furthermore, I do not agree with you on the interpretation of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u94	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel spoke about his question, No. 126, concerning the fight against trafficking and the consumption of cracks in the metro.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u95	Minister responsible for Transport, my question is to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. The presence of traffic and crack consumers in the Paris metro, especially on lines 4 and 12, in the north-east of the capital, poses real problems of public safety and tranquillity, for both RATP staff and users. The difficulties have lasted for many years, sometimes with peaks; Recently, there have been many attacks that are worrying RATP users and members. In the face of this situation, security and tranquillity must of course be ensured by allowing better coordination of services: the police prefecture, the Syndicat des transports d'Île-de-France, the city of Paris and the RATP. There is also a need for better psychological and social follow-up of those who are dependent on crack, who are delivered to themselves. Associations are doing a great job, but more support is needed to get drug users out of this infernal spiral. The Minister of State announced the creation of a daily security police. I support this measure, which goes in the right direction – I would like to go even further by finally creating a municipal police force in Paris, but, as this requires a change in legislation, we will come back to it later. Can the Government inform us about the daily security police? What can she do? How can it act to improve security, in cooperation with the various partners, on lines 4 and 12? I hope that the 18th arrondissement will be a pilot to welcome this force. Thank you in advance for your answers because many Parisiennes and Parisians are waiting for commitments and lasting action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u96	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u97	Mr Bournazel, the fight against drug abuse and drug trafficking in public transport in the capital is a priority task for the State services. The police prefecture has a dedicated structure: the brigade of the francilian networks, the BRF, which deploys specialized uniformed teams and plainclothes officers to the sensitive stations of the capital. In priority security areas, such as Barbès-Château rouge, in the 18th arrondissement, the number of staff was increased as early as 2012, which unfortunately led to a deportation of the phenomenon, demonstrating the limits of an action focused on the strategy of eviction. That is why, as early as 2016, the police prefecture set up an action plan to combat crack dealers and other hard drugs in metro stations on lines 4 and 12. In one semester, more than 110 cases were dealt with, in association with the network protection and security group, the GPSR, RATP's internal security service. Extended in the spring of 2017 on lines 8 and 9, these measures, supported by the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, produce judicial effects and crack sellers are systematically sentenced to rigorous imprisonment. Between 2016 and 2017, more than 400 cases related to this drug trafficking were handled, leading to the arrest of 283 vendors and 406 consumers. The action plan also includes operations on line 12, involving a significant number of BRF, GPSR and mobile gendarmerie officers. Since 9 November 2017, a partnership agreement between the Préfecture de la région Île-de-France and RATP has provided for the establishment of common maraudes. Since the beginning of 2018, the police prefecture, RATP and the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office have stepped up their efforts to ensure a targeted presence on the lines where the problem is most prevalent, in order to secure RATP users and drivers and agents. Finally, in order to improve the effectiveness of these actions to combat drug trafficking and consumption, the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office recently announced the creation of a GTLD – a local crime treatment group – under the authority of the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, which will deal specifically with the problem of narcotics in transport. As you can see, it is through joint and determined action that we will succeed in curbing this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u98	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I place great emphasis on this problem, which causes serious difficulties. One figure: this deal is responsible for 800 shutdowns of the public service; So he's getting into trouble every day. I would like to see better coordination between the partners and the services involved so that results can be achieved both in terms of safety and tranquillity – we owe it to the users and the staff – and in the follow-up of the people who are dependent on crack, that we must get out of this infernal spiral of drugs. This is a long-term action that should be carried out with the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u100	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to put her question, No. 109, on the role of elected representatives in territorial redistributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u101	Minister responsible for Transport, I would like to draw the attention of the Government, particularly the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, to a problem encountered by many mayors. Territorial redistributions linked to electoral strategies and to the creation and merger of communities of communes or agglomeration are sometimes made in spite of common sense, without listening to the inhabitants of the communes concerned or their elected representatives. For example, a commune whose history has been linked since the Middle Ages to the capital of its department, located 15 kilometres from it, was suddenly connected to a sub-prefecture located 27 kilometres away and forcibly integrated into a new community of communes whose central city is further away and does not correspond to the habits of life and work of the inhabitants. Elected and local people are not being listened to, which makes political action on the ground more open to citizens. It is also a nonsense from the point of view of the new environmental concerns which should be a priority in 2018: residents and elected people travel for meetings or formalities down their daily journeys. More generally, is it normal for some municipalities to be clearly sacrificed in the name of territorial logics, often strictly budgetary, decided by great elected officials far from the ground, while our fellow citizens now demand that their concerns be heard? Will we give more power to the elected representatives of small local authorities, who know the reality of their territory better than anyone else?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u102	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u103	Mrs Bannier, first of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, who could not be present this morning. As you know, the adoption of departmental schemes for intercommunal cooperation, the SDCIs, was conducted under the leadership of the prefects, in close consultation with the elected representatives. Thus, at the end of the consultation phase of the municipal councils, 85 per cent of the 558 perimeter project decisions taken by the prefects at national level were the subject of a favourable opinion of the communes. I would point out that the initiation of the so-called "overstepping" procedure resulted in a final phase of consultation of the elected representatives: the departmental committees for inter-communal cooperation, the CISCs, were thus able to amend the draft proposed by the Prefect by a two-thirds majority of their members. In the end, of the seventy-nine perimeter projects that did not receive the qualified majorities provided for by law, fifty-seven were implemented without amendment, pursuant to the Prefect's proposal, and sixteen were amended by the CISC by a two-thirds majority of its members. The prefects also renounced the use of the procedure of bypassing six perimeters, composed exclusively of EPCI – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – whose populations exceeded the legal thresholds. The procedure for the redistribution of the administrative districts of the State has also been the subject of wide consultation with parliamentarians and elected representatives, primarily the mayors and presidents of the public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation affected by these redistributions – the chairman of the departmental council has also been consulted. Only at the end of this consultation phase did the regional prefects, by order, change the borough boundaries, which, for the most part, took effect on 1 January 2017. The result is the consistency of the administrative maps of local authorities and the State, whose absence in the past has often been regretted by elected officials. Finally, the departmental plans for improving the accessibility of services to the public, co-led by the prefects and the presidents of departmental councils, aim precisely to provide direct answers to enable, in a number of cases, the movement of users and elected representatives to be limited. It is in this exercise that I invite the elected representatives to come closer to their prefects to reflect on the solutions adapted to the needs of the inhabitants of their communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u104	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would again like to draw attention to the aberrations that can be encountered in small communes. No later than last Sunday, the mayor of one of them explained to me that she could no longer attract residents because the department no longer financed trips to a nearby college, because of the departmental limit. It is a shame that the administrative boundaries, invisible to the inhabitants, take precedence over the daily reality of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u106	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No 97, on Linky meters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u107	My question was to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, whose absence I regret. The experiment of the Linky communicating meter since 2009 and the generalization of its deployment since 2013 by Enedis is far from consensus. This meter records the electricity consumption of users and then transmits this information to the energy operator. Nearly 500 municipalities have opposed the installation of this new meter, and many citizens do not want it. The reasons for these refusals are numerous; Let me remind you of the three main ones. For some, it is the registration and storage of personal data relating to electricity consumption and their lifestyles that are problematic. For others, these are medical reasons, linked to electromagnetic waves emitted by the CPL data capture system – online carrier current. Finally, others oppose the ecological nonsense of replacing meters in perfect working order, with a service life of more than fifty years, with equipment with a much shorter service life; This nonsense is all the more obvious since the latest studies on the promises of a reduction in individual consumption show that they are inoperative. These users informed Enedis of their refusal to install a Linky meter, via recommended mail, bailiff's summons, or even by placing devices blocking access to their meter. Yet, even though the predecessor of the Minister of State, Ms Ségolène Royal, had stated in a letter addressed to Enedis, dated 21 April 2017 – it is not so old – that "the deployment of the Linky meter should in no way be perceived as a constraint imposed on users", the company and its subcontractors do not follow this instruction at all: they multiply intimidation, deliver false information to users and, in the end, carry out the forced laying, sometimes accompanied by violence. There are many testimonies; I was able to collect several of them myself. Minister of Transport, in October 2017, I already asked Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, a written question on this subject, which remained unanswered. So I'm laying it this morning in session: what are you going to do to make Enedis stop the forced installation of Linky meters to users who oppose it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u108	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u109	Mr Prud'homme, Mr Nicolas Hulot cannot be present, he asked me to answer you. You call our attention to the installation of Linky meters and to the three main reasons why, in your opinion, our citizens do not want this device. The first concerns the protection of personal data. I would like to emphasize that the Government attaches great importance to the issues of data security and confidentiality. Regulatory measures have been taken to ensure this confidentiality, in particular by providing that the disclosure of data cannot take place without the prior authorisation of the user. The second concerns exposure to electromagnetic waves. The Linky meter is low-power electrical equipment. To study wave issues, two campaigns to measure public exposure to the electromagnetic waves of Linky meters were carried out by the National Frequency Agency, ANFR, and by the National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks, INERIS, in the laboratory and in the field. The results are consistent and show very low specific exposure, linked to the use of the on-line carrier current. This was confirmed by a study by the National Food, Environment and Labour Health Security Agency, ANSES, conducted over the period 2016-2017. The waves emitted by the Linky system are below the ceilings laid down by the health standards defined at European and French level; They are of the same order of magnitude as the waves emitted, for example, by a television set. Thirdly, you mention the fact that our citizens are concerned about the environmental footprint. Please be aware that recycling of old meters is entrusted to companies specializing in the treatment of electronic waste. You also tell us about the methods used by Enedis to install meters in individuals who oppose them. I note that the replacement of the meter is the responsibility of the system operator. If the customer is unable to install the connecting meter because of the customer's refusal, the customer will not be entitled to the tariff advantages and services currently free of charge. Of course, any use of intimidation and any infringement of private property is unacceptable, and the Government condemns any such conduct. I believe it is our collective responsibility to make our fellow citizens aware of the new opportunities offered by communicating meters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u110	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u111	Thank you for echoing service provider Enedis, whose arguments we have heard many times... To hear you, the problem is that the public would not have been well aware of the tremendous benefits of these new meters. Fortunately, our fellow citizens are not completely misinformed or deprived of the capacity to judge; That is why they refuse, in mass, the installation of these meters. You praise the positive effect of these meters on individual consumption. But our citizens must have the opportunity to refuse them because, I repeat, the economic benefit to households is minor. Moreover, while it was planned to provide these meters with a deported display, in order to help households reduce their consumption, this was not the case. Recent studies show that communicating meters can provide a small initial benefit, but it disappears after a while. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I ask that our fellow citizens be able to refuse the installation of this meter and that Enedis respect their will.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u112	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to put her question, No. 98, concerning the CIGEO industrial geological storage centre in Bure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u113	Minister responsible for transport, my question was to Nicolas Hulot, but I think he provided you with his answer. The Geological Storage Industrial Centre project, or IGEO, involves burying our most radioactive waste at 500 metres deep in Bure. In 2019, the Nuclear Safety Agency, the NSA, will have to decide on the start-up of the site until 2140. Storage is supposed to last more than 100,000 years, even though the residues it contains will be radioactive for millions of years. Burying this waste and closing your eyes is completely irresponsible: last August, the IRSN – Institute for Nuclear Radiation Protection and Safety – pointed to many dangers, including fire risks. The latest opinion of the NSA confirms these dangers. In the face of these major risks, we are guaranteed the reversibility of the project. The StocaMine project in Alsace was also supposed to meet this principle. Fogs: After only five years, in 2002, a fire made it impossible to recover all the buried waste and threatened to contaminate Europe's largest groundwater table! The conditions for a real debate have never been met. In 2015, the CIGEO project was almost imposed by virtue of article 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, before being invalidated by the Constitutional Council. Other options than deep burial exist but are not seriously studied, such as surface armoured storage, demanded by many scientists because it would keep an eye on the waste. Minister, 300,000 years ago, our ancestors bequeathed us as a legacy of magnificent rock paintings. We, ourselves, are about to bequeath to future generations, without real debate, invisible poison and death, by creating a nuclear trash. Before embarking on this extremely risky project, which will cost 35 billion euros in the low word and which threatens humanity in the very long term, can you tell us whether a democratic and contradictory debate will take place, based on extensive studies on all possible options?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u114	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u115	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u116	Mrs Fiat, Nicolas Hulot asked me to answer you. Today, 90% of radioactive waste has a long-term management chain in operation. The remaining 10%, high-level and long-term medium-level waste, account for 99% of radioactivity. It is precisely this waste that is destined for the CIGEO storage project in Bure, Meuse. Since these wastes exist, it is our responsibility to manage them as safely as possible. A clear solution must be found to deal with them under absolute security conditions. Parliamentary research and debate over the past 15 years have not identified a credible alternative to deep geological storage. This solution is being progressively implemented by the National Agency for Radioactive Waste Management, ANDRA. Minister of State Nicolas Hulot will pay particular attention to ensuring that the CIGEO project is the subject of sufficient consultation with stakeholders and communities. The approval of the project, which will not take place until 2022, will be given only after a public inquiry, an opinion of the local authorities concerned, an opinion of the Parliament, an opinion of the National Evaluation Commission and, of course, an instruction led by the Nuclear Safety Authority. In addition, in order to ensure good information and public participation until the opening of the public inquiry, two guarantors have recently been appointed by the National Commission for Public Debate. If consultation is essential, it cannot legitimize violence; the Government will pay attention to the fact that the contestation around CIGEO is carried out in compliance with the laws of the Republic. The design of storage by ANDRA is currently continuing, in a demanding dialogue with the ASN, which has just published its opinion on the safety options file: it reaffirms that these are a significant step forward and also points to some difficulties. Of course, no question should be left unanswered. The question of bitumen, for example, made a lot of talk about it; Nicolas Hulot called for a strengthened and independent expertise on this subject to inform all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u117	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u118	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Sébastien Lecornu, on a visit to Bure, said, a little like you: "The oppositions that would not be legal are unacceptable. Radicalized oppositions, which commit criminal acts, as may have been the case, are intended to be brought before the French courts of justice. Inhabitant of Lorraine and native of the Meuse, I can tell you that, there, we are far from violence. If there is a victim of violence around the CIGEO project, it is the activist who must have been amputated several toes. Don't pretend that the opponents of the project are violent demonstrators! As for the report issued by the NSA ten days ago, we do not interpret it as you do. The information note issued by the NSA on this notice states: "Some topics in the safety options package require additions to the application for authorization [on] the justification of the storage architecture, the design of the facility to withstand natural hazards, the monitoring of the installation and the management of post-accident situations." That does not seem to me to be a very positive opinion! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is a shame that Mr. Hulot is not present. A few years ago, we had a party and had a drink together at the CIGEO site – at the time, he was opposed to the project. I invite you, Madam Minister, with Mr Hulot, to come to our beautiful department of the Meuse in Lorraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u119	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 99, on the future of the thermal power plant in Le Havre.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u120	Madam Minister, my question was almost personal to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, but his absence is no big deal, because I think he has given you his answer. The climate plan you announced last July provides for the cessation of coal-fired electricity generation. This choice affects thermal power stations and seems too thin; There's a middle between opening and closing. Thermal power plants are an indispensable tool for the French electricity grid, which is likely to be the beginning of the energy transition. Once the coal-fired power plants have been shut down, the amount of energy available on the grid will not be sufficient to cope with the power consumption peaks, even with the opening of the Flamanville RPD. The balance of the energy transition is very precarious, as you know, and thermal power plants are a response to the intermittent nature of renewable energies such as wind and solar. Maintaining our energy independence in case of peaks while preserving our energy tools and the know-how of EDF employees seems to be a more pragmatic solution than the pure and simple closure of the power plants of Le Havre and Cordemais, which I know well. Moreover, the activity of these plants is very important for the local economy. For example, it is estimated that the outright closure of the Le Havre power station would result in the loss of some 50 docker jobs and would unbalance the port's budget. The CGT estimates the total number of jobs that would be eliminated in France at 4000. In the closure of coal-fired power stations, the stakes are fuel. However, these two thermal power plants are making enormous research efforts to reduce the share of coal in their electricity production. In Le Havre, solid recovery fuels are tested, while Cordemais is responsible for studying the input of woody green waste into its fuel mix. These tests are fundamental: we have the possibility to find innovative and efficient solutions in the short term, and to export them so that France is a key player in the ecological conversion of thermal power plants. The emission control devices of these two plants are the most efficient. In addition to the work of the inter-ministerial mission to assess the socio-economic impact of the closure of coal-fired power plants by 2022, does the Minister of State intend to stay for several days in Le Havre and Le Cordemais, as he did in Fessenheim, in order to understand the stakes of the closure of these thermal power plants and to meet all the actors concerned? Finally, why didn't you wait for the conclusions of this interdepartmental mission to announce the closure schedule?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u121	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u122	Mr Lecoq, you have addressed your question to Mr Nicolas Hulot, who has instructed me to answer you. Coal-fired power plants have long been essential to French electricity production, but they emit large amounts of CO and contribute to air pollution. France's ambition in the fight against climate change requires in the medium term to stop these plants, which will be replaced by less polluting means of production. For this reason, the Government has committed itself, within the framework of the climate plan, to halt the production of coal-fired electricity by the end of the quinquennium. The territories hosting these plants will have to be accompanied individually in the context of ecological transition contracts. You know how much Nicolas Hulot wants the energy transition to take into account all social issues. In order to work concretely on the future of coal-fired plant sites, such as the Le Havre power plant, the Government, as you pointed out, has entrusted a mission to the general inspections of the environment and sustainable development, social affairs and the economy. This mission will obviously be held with the elected representatives of the territories concerned. In this context, the Government will pay particular attention to projects to convert sites to fuels such as biomass. The option of replacing a coal-fired power plant with a biomass-fired power plant is indeed interesting, since it would allow an activity to be maintained at the site while contributing to the development of renewable or recovery energies. As you said, EDF is currently testing the use of residual biomass from the maintenance of parks and gardens in its Cordemais plant, co-fuelling with coal. The Government will closely monitor the results of this demonstration project. However, it is important to highlight the constraints on the volume of biomass that can be used by high-power generating plants, particularly with regard to plant biomass. These projects must therefore be developed taking into account the procurement issues and conflicts of use that they may raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u123	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u124	Your answer, Madam Minister, shows some progress: at the beginning there was a question of shutting down these plants; Now you're telling us that you're looking at the possibility of turning these plants into another fuel, for example, biomass from green waste. I very much appreciate this development, and it will be appreciated in the territories concerned, where it is difficult to discern the future. Coal is used in France in many sectors, including agriculture, in a much more polluting way than in thermal power plants, even if it emits CO. I repeat that we appreciate this and that I will relay it among the people of Haiti.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u125	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 110, on noise pollution related to railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u126	My question is addressed to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, but I am pleased that the Minister of Transport is here because she knows the file that I am going to talk about, as letters have already been exchanged. It concerns the regulation of noise pollution control in the field of major transport infrastructures. I am thinking in particular of the commissioning of the new LGV – high-speed line – towards Brittany, which is at the origin of important noise nuisances affecting many of the residents of the Sarthe department, including several communes in my constituency: Lombron, Montfort-le-Gesnois, Saint-Corneille and Savigné-l'Évêque. These nuisances may be even greater tomorrow if the intentions expressed by the State to develop rail links between Paris airports and the Grand Ouest materialize. The Environmental Code lays down the principle of taking into account noise pollution and refers to a decree and a decree implementing the requirements for noise prevention and reduction measures. The regulations require the construction, alteration or alteration of an infrastructure to take the necessary steps to ensure that noise pollution is limited. In addition, an interministerial decree of 8 November 1999 on rail infrastructure noise provided for on-site measurement procedures and indicators of rail noise discomfort. However, the regulations in force for acoustic protection are not based on peak noise but on the cumulative noise level resulting from the number of trains running over a given period, which has the effect of diluting and limiting the measurement of the most serious effects of nuisances according to the traffic itself. The calculations take into account the distance, the positioning of the track relative to the natural terrain and the presence or absence of protection. In concrete terms, this results in a large difference since the instantaneous noise for a TGV running at 300 kilometres per hour reaches about 90 decibels at a distance between 25 and 50 metres, whereas the calculated noise at the same distance will be about 60 decibels per 100 TGV in a day: the difference between instantaneous and calculated noise can thus reach about 30 decibels. The actual noise level is often incompatible with the normal enjoyment of a nearby dwelling. At the time of the adoption of these regulations, several associations for the preservation of the environment and for the defence of residents had argued that such provisions were part of the art of regulating what would not be acceptable. Thus, many of our fellow citizens suffer nuisances on behalf of projects of public interest, but without their special and abnormal harm being prevented or compensated to the extent of the daily difficulties resulting therefrom. I ask you, Madam Minister, that the provisions of this Order, after consultation with representative organizations, elected representatives and associations for the protection of residents, be reviewed. Prevention, compensation and compensation measures must be able to be taken on the basis of the actual nuisances suffered for significant periods of time and not on the basis of tools and calculation methods which smooth them over long periods of time and thereby reduce their severity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u127	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u128	Karamanli, the commissioning of the high-speed Bretagne-Pays de la Loire line, which took place on 2 July 2017, has led to a significant improvement in the service of the Grand Ouest. But, as you recall, it is also a major concern for the residents of this new line. I want to reassure you from the outset that I am fully aware of this problem; We were seized directly by elected associations and parliamentarians. The noise impacts of the new transport infrastructure are strictly regulated by regulation. I confirm that the partner Eiffage Rail Express will have to scrupulously respect the maximum permitted levels. In this area, the infrastructure manager has an obligation to achieve results. A wide-ranging campaign of acoustic measurements is under way to ensure compliance with these standards; the results are expected in April. If deficiencies were to be identified, the concessionaire would, without delay and at its own expense, put in place the necessary corrective measures. I have asked the State authorities to pay particular attention to compliance with these provisions. But you also draw my attention to the relevance of the current regulation. In the rail sector, it is actually based on the measurement of average noise. This method of evaluation may need to be supplemented by verification of recorded noise peaks, but this will be for future infrastructure. The Government's objective is to respond quickly to the feelings of local people and elected officials. That is why he asked the prefects concerned to organise follow-up committees, which involve the public, to ensure compliance with the regulations by partner Eiffage Rail Express. The responses that can be made will then need to be discussed with all stakeholders. In particular, the Government is in favour of the territorial solidarity fund being mobilised for any action aimed at improving the environmental integration of the new infrastructure outside its control and beyond the necessary regulatory obligations. On the basis of the results of these measures, I will bring together the local and regional authorities concerned to prescribe possible additional work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u129	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor to put his question, No 115, on the proliferation of wild boar in the Gard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u130	Minister responsible for transport, the Gard department is still suffering the negative consequences of an overpopulation of wild boar, while it holds the national record in number of animals slaughtered. This is somewhat paradoxical and indicative of shortcomings, even though I, like the hunters, measure the efforts that have been undertaken. This damage severely affects agriculture, especially the vine, in a department where it is the main crop. Public safety is not left behind, with many vehicle collisions. In spite of the rising levies with the help of the lieutenants de luveterie, whose volunteer and dedicated work I salute, the situation is still very critical. This justified the State's choice in 2017 to take more drastic measures against wild boar populations: the ban on feeding since 31 August last; the lifting of unwarranted hunting ban zones; the maximum opening of hunting periods at constant right; experimenting with a derogation from national law authorized by the Ministry of the Environment in part of the communes of Gard. During two months, from early April to 31 May, destruction was tested through hunting, approach and cage trapping, and the results are encouraging. That is why I ask you whether it is envisaged to leave the experiment. The regulation should indeed include an extension of the period for the removal of wild boars to April and May. This would allow the period of advance fire to be extended to the lookout and approach, upstream of the opening of the hunt. I also invite you to inform me of the measures envisaged to enable hunters to control more the pressure exerted by the boar. The Fédération départementale des cheurs du Gard has a financial scissor effect: the increase in the large game stamp, intended to compensate for agricultural damage, discourages an increasing number of hunters from buying it. This is very problematic because this hunting federation is responsible, like any other, for the application of the departmental plan of cynegetic management. In the Gard, these obligations take on a particular dimension, as the proliferation of the boar is strong. Clearly, political decision-making must live up to this scourge, by matching the means with the needs to ensure effectiveness and results.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u131	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u132	Mr Gaillard, your question was addressed to Mr Nicolas Hulot, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. The proliferation of wild boar has been a concern in France and elsewhere in Europe for some 20 years, both in terms of agricultural damage and road collisions and in terms of health. In view of this, in 2009 the Government set up the national wild boar control plan, which aims to consolidate all available regulatory tools at the field level to improve the effectiveness of sampling and reduce damage. This plan is still in effect. I would remind you that 680,000 wild boars have been collected in France in recent years, of which 40,000 have been collected in the Gard, 20 times more than thirty years ago. But the boar is perceived to be overabundant in many territories. As a result, it is necessary to review the existing regulatory framework in order to improve the effectiveness of the regulation of the species and to promote good practices of cynegetic management and damage prevention. This is why the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition set up, at the end of 2017, a specific working group, the national wild boar technical group, which includes members of the National Council for Hunting and Wildlife, and the National Commission for Compensation for the Damage of Big Game – hunters, farmers, nature protection associations, lodgers' lieutenants, National Office for Hunting and Wildlife and field services. The first meeting of the working group was held at the Department on December 12, 2017. The experiment implemented in the Gard, from April 2017 to March 2018, was the subject of a first review, encouraging at mid-term. The generalization of this system to all French departments by ministerial decree is under consideration. The extension of the firing period of the wild boar, by decree in the Council of State, must be the subject of a consultation with hunters and farmers in the first half of 2018. With regard to compensation for the agricultural damage caused by big game, it has been the exclusive responsibility of hunters for several decades, who benefit in exchange for the monopoly of the regulation of the different species of big game by hunting. It is not appropriate to change this balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u133	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u134	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that the working group that has been set up will address this issue effectively and as a matter of priority, because we are all aware of economic, environmental and health issues. We must be very careful about the exponential proliferation of wild boar, because unfortunately the solution cannot be based on administrative and political time. I hope that we can all work intelligently together to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u135	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to put her question, No 120, on the development of methanisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u136	My question was addressed to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and I thank the Minister responsible for Transport for responding. It deals with the development of methanization in our territories and its ecological effects, in a context of green economy and circular economy. Methanization is a process for treating organic waste that causes biological reactions during decomposition that make it possible to produce biogas, a renewable energy that can be used for the production of heat, electricity or biofuel. Under normal conditions, methanization is a technique that is totally rooted in the energy transition, which we seek to develop and to which environmental associations adhere. However, the importance of certain methanization units is worrying a number of our fellow citizens. In my constituency of the Lot department, an industrial methanization project is in the construction phase at the Gramat site. This project, located near the regional nature park of the Causses du Quercy, is a cause for concern. Indeed, they fear pollution which is not yet known to the extent or the whole of the consequences, knowing that the RSA, the regional health agency, is not in a position to respond. The risks of soil, water and biodiversity pollution are regularly discussed in order to oppose this project. The karstic, limestone and porous soil of our department would only aggravate and accelerate the harmful effects of this industrial pollution associated with spreading. What about the trucks carrying waste from the Lot department as well as the neighbouring departments, which will arrive loaded and leave empty to their point of departure? Minister, I would like to ask you to know the Government's position on the development of methanization in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u137	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u138	Mrs Tiegna, unable to be present, Mr. Nicolas Hulot asked me to answer you. Methanisation is a promising sector with multiple benefits, both for the environment and for the creation of jobs and the balance of farms. Biogas production must take on a more important role in the energy transition. As a result, the sector has strong public policy support and a regulatory framework that is tailored and proportionate to the issues at stake. In the ongoing review of the multiannual energy programming, we will examine both the possibility of increasing the biogas production targets in the short term – by 2023 – and in the longer term – by 2028 – and how to facilitate the development of the methanisation chain, in particular the injection of biomethane into networks. Concertation and transparency on projects are essential to ensuring citizens' confidence. Large methanizer projects are subject to the authorisation regime provided for by the legislation on environmentally protected facilities, the ICPEs. They shall therefore be the subject of public consultation before any decision of the Prefect is taken. It is important for project sponsors to be able to inform and dialogue about their files. You are expressing the concerns of some of the citizens of your department about the risks of pollution or the impacts of road transport generated. These risks and nuisances can be taken into account in the regulation of PBCIs. Furthermore, depending on the size of the projects, impact or impact studies are carried out, and road traffic is well integrated into these studies. Government services pay particular attention to these issues. Under these conditions, the Government supports the development of methanization. To identify concrete levers for action, Sébastien Lecornu, Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, will launch this week a working group with stakeholders, as had been done for the Earth's wind energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u139	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u140	I thank you for your attention, Minister, and assure you of my greatest interest, but also of my utmost vigilance, in the development of these new ways of producing renewable energy, as part of the momentum that you give to the ecological and energy transition. I will follow with great attention the work and conclusions of the working group to be launched by Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu on methanization, like the one created for wind energy and the one created for photovoltaics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u141	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor to put her question, No 108, on the Clermond-Ferrrand-Paris rail link.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u142	Minister responsible for Transport, given the content of my question, I am pleased that you are here this morning. Since June, the economic and political leaders of the Puy-de-Dôme, all currents, have successively asked the President of the Republic, the Minister of Cohesion of the territories and yourself about the railway link between Clermont-Ferrand and Paris. I also relayed their approach in a letter addressed to you on 19 July 2017. However, since all these initiatives have remained unanswered, I am addressing you again this morning. The line that connects Clermont-Ferrand to Paris transports 4,600 passengers a day in three thirty hours in the best case, apart from the only direct daily train. It is considered to be a structuring and part of the network of balancing trains of the territory, organized in 2012 by the State with the aim of providing a service of large rapid lines and to de-enclave the territories concerned. However, since 2012, the state and SNCF have increased the number of announcements to postpone their implementation. It is now urgent to reduce the travel time to clear the city of Clermont-Ferrand, its 290,000 inhabitants, its 35,000 students, its 156,000 jobs and its 14,000 companies, including Michelin. Last week, during a trip to the Puy-de-Dôme, the President of the Republic expressed his wish for tangible improvements to be made on the line in a short time. Two types of solutions can be considered for this purpose: to increase the number of direct trains or to remove level crossings – which have been confirmed by recent events as dangerous. The first solution has the advantage of being a priori less expensive and faster to implement, but it obviously does not exclude the second. Minister, will you support these solutions so that they are integrated into the SNCF outline of this line? Will you give priority to the Clermont-Ferrand-Paris rail link, which the Auvergne needs so much for its attractiveness and development?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u143	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u144	Mrs Vichnievsky, you are asking me about the options that could be chosen, as part of the master plan under development, to improve the performance of the Clermont-Ferrand-Paris line. As you pointed out, this line is part of the network of balancing trains in the territory, which are the responsibility of the State. Like most lines in the national rail network, this line has suffered from underinvestment in the conventional rail network for decades. Today, the Government wishes to give priority to the maintenance and modernization of networks. This is why many regeneration works are undertaken on this line, as well as on the entire network. I am well aware that such works can lead to longer journey times, but they are, on the one hand, indispensable for renovating this line and, on the other hand, adjusted at best not to unduly penalise the operation of the service. As part of the overall scheme, the treatment of level crossings will obviously be studied. While it increases the safety of rail and road traffic, it is not the only way to reduce journey times. There is also a need to invest in track, signalling and power supply. To this end, an analysis is under way within the framework of the master plan, which is expected to be finalized in the coming weeks. The aim is to define all the measures to be taken to improve this axis and the service offered to travellers, in particular in terms of investments to be made but also in terms of service and quality of service, while naturally aiming at improving the economic balance of this line which is currently in deficit. The question of financing these operations will also be raised. The journey time can also be improved through the commissioning of a new rolling stock, to be financed by the State. Through these actions, the Government shows its full commitment to improving the performance of the Clermont-Ferrand-Paris line, which is truly one of its priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u145	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u146	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think you have felt well that all the actors in the territory are mobilized. We are well aware that land-use planning and the balanced distribution of the Government's efforts are of high priority in the Auvergne region. Unfortunately, I fear that the work on the rehabilitation of the current tracks will not improve the journey time; In reality, longer journey times would be anticipated if they were not achieved. However, they have been absolutely indispensable for many years. You indicated that the removal of level crossings was under consideration. This is a lead, but I hope that the option of adding a direct train will also be considered, because it is the only solution that could relieve all the players in the territory in a short time, and perhaps also one of the least costly. I know that financial difficulties are important in the options that will be chosen by the Government. In any case, know that we are following the Clermont-Ferrand-Paris link in a very precise and vigilant way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u147	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to put her question, No 111, concerning the service to Nevers by the SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u148	Madam Minister responsible for transport, the Nièvre department, of which I am one of the elected, is equidistant from Paris and Lyon, which should be a major asset for this hard-hit territory, inter alia, through deindustrialisation and medical desertification. This is not the case: we have had many delays in transport. Thus, the doubling of National 7, which was to be completed in the year 2000, in accordance with the wish of Pierre Bérégovoy, will be completed, if all goes well, with twenty years late. Many Nivernais work in the Paris region, either on an ad hoc basis or on a daily basis. Today, due to inadequate rail services, a majority of them prefer to take the car rather than public transport. In 2008, a project called POCL – Paris-Orléans-Clermont-Ferrand-Lyon – was launched. It aimed to double the rail network between Paris and Lyon, thus linking Nevers and Paris in fifty minutes, and Nevers and Lyon in one hour fifteen, instead of the two or three hours currently required. After eight years of feasibility studies and consultations, the elected representatives of the Burgundy, Centre and Auvergne regions, meeting within a steering committee, voted for a median route serving the Nièvre. This route, the least expensive, with an investment estimated at 13 billion euros, has also received the support of Réseau ferré de France, for its relevance and economic scheme. The project is currently at the public utility survey stage. However, the latest announcements on high-speed lines have created uncertainty on this project which is detrimental to the development of the territories concerned. Meanwhile, the territory of Nièvre is now served by TER networks – regional express transport – and Intercités. In 2015, however, the Duron Commission called for the abolition of certain trains in order to avoid duplication in terms of means of transport and the transfer of certain speeds from the Intercity network to the TER network. Since then, several years ago, the last train of the day, which left Paris at twenty-one hours, has been abolished, which penalizes many Nivernais who go to Paris for their professional activity, the last train now leaving Paris-Bercy station at nine o'clock. Finally, the Nevers-Paris line is the only line of Burgundy-Franche-Comté not to benefit from the advantages linked to regional subscriptions, which constitutes a real inequality and encourages our fellow citizens either, as I have already indicated, to travel by car – which goes against our environmental policy – or to move to the Parisian or Lyon agglomerations. In 2018, the management of the Paris-Montargis-Nevers line should be transferred to the neighbouring region of the Centre-Val de Loire and thus leave our administrative region. The development of the Paris-Nevers line is therefore essential. The planned removal of certain routes constitutes a real danger to our territory and risks undermining all the efforts made by the communities to meet the specific economic problems and needs of the Nivernais. Madam Minister, in this uncertain context, can you inform us about future decisions regarding the future of the POCL high-speed line? They are a condition of all our efforts in our territory. On the other hand, can you tell us what means will be made available by the State to allow a relay to the regional authorities in good conditions and above all to ensure the maintenance of the lines serving Nevers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u149	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u150	Madame Goulet, the Paris-Orléans-Clermont-Ferrand-Lyon project consists of connecting Paris to Lyon by a new line of more than 500 kilometres serving the regions Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Centre-Val de Loire and Île-de-France, doubling the current Paris-Lyon line. It aims to meet the saturation, in the long term, of this line and the need to improve the service of the territories of the center of France, including the Nièvre. At this stage of the evaluations, the cost of the full project is estimated at more than €13 billion. However, from the public debate conducted in 2011 no consensus emerged between the West and the Median scenarios for the continuation of the high-speed POCL project. Under these conditions, it was decided, at the beginning of July 2015, to continue the studies on the parts common to the two scenarios, in the north and south, as well as on the connection to Paris and Lyon, and to resume the consultation on the choice of a phase scenario for the central sector of the project. More generally, the progress of the POCL project must be seen in the context of the reflection on the planning of major infrastructure projects in order to meet the priority needs of the French in terms of mobility within the framework of a sustainable model. The Infrastructure Guidance Board will provide me with its report on this issue this week. The conclusions of the approach will be the subject of a bill on infrastructure programming, which will be presented and debated in Parliament in the first half of 2018. This will be an opportunity to chart the prospects for the POCL project. In any event, the service to the territories will eventually benefit from projects to improve existing infrastructure and equipment, notably on the Paris-Nevers and Paris-Clermont-Ferrand lines, which now provide the bulk of the Nivernais rail service. Operated until then by Intercités under the control of the State, the Paris-Nevers line was actually taken over on 1 January 2018 by the region Centre-Val de Loire, which is now its organizing authority. In return for this recovery, the State contributes to the region's compensation for the line's operating deficit and finances the renewal of rolling stock, which is expected to take place in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u151	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u152	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. However, I would like to draw your attention, referring to the intervention of the previous speaker, to the need to look at the Paris-Nevers-Clermont-Ferrand line, whose congestion does not allow us to develop. There is a real need for the Government to make a strong commitment in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u153	Mrs Claire O'Petit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 114, concerning the service to Gisors via the SNCF line J.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u154	The Minister responsible for transport, my question concerns the conditions of transport of users of the SNCF line J at the departure or arrival of the terminal station in Gisors. Since 10 December 2017, the new timetables have increased the discontent of users, already indisposed by the unsafeness of trains and the complex pricing practice of SNCF. Back from the presidential will reaffirmed especially during the televised wishes, the SNCF, by reducing the number of trains from Chars to Gisors to increase the number of trains from Paris to Argenteuil, does not build access to transport for our rural territories. As transport is one of the criteria for choosing the location of young working couples, this policy exacerbates the divide between the territories. To this is added the discomfort of the trains, whose sanitary facilities are condemned during a journey of up to one hour and thirty, even if the covered distance is only eighty kilometers. Finally, to travel through the Chars-Gisors section, Navigo Pass subscribers are charged a surcharge whose high pricing is not based on specific justifications. Aware that the J line crosses three regions – Île-de-France, Hauts-de-France and Normandy – I would like to know whether the State, which is responsible for the control of the public transport service, could intervene with SNCF so that its management of the J line, particularly the Gisors terminus, does not deny the presidential will to build access to rural areas, particularly by rail transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u155	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u156	Mrs O'Petit, you are asking me about the difficulties faced by users of the Transilian line J, especially those travelling between Gisors and Paris, because of the new timetables. You also consider trains to be uncomfortable and complex pricing. I would remind you that this is a decentralised competence and that these new timetables have been decided by the organizing authority, i.e. the former Transport Union of Île-de-France, now renamed Île-de-France Mobilitys. However, the malfunctions you report cannot be summed up in the new schedule. They are also attributable to a succession of incidents between December 2017 and January 2018, some of them of technical origin, others related to malicious acts or to storm Eleanor. The assessment of the impact of the new schedules will require a little longer time: Île-de-France Mobilitys plans to present a review of their application to elected officials and user associations next June. With regard to the absence of a toilet on board the trains, I refer you to the decision of Île-de-France Mobilitys, which asked Transilien to close the trains for all of its trains. Users have the possibility to use toilets deployed at the station with their Navigo pass. Finally, the pricing, which you consider complex for travellers, is issued by the organizing authorities, in this case the Normandy region, the Hauts-de-France region and Île-de-France Mobilitys. As you can see, the State no longer intervenes in the pricing of the Gisors-Paris-Saint-Lazare line. However, I will not fail to share your comments with the President of Île-de-France Mobilitys during a forthcoming exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u157	Mrs Claire O'Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u158	Thank you, Madam Minister. The situation I have mentioned is a real problem. The change of schedule forces high school students to arrive 30 minutes before the opening of their school, which is unacceptable, especially during the winter, when it rains and it is cold. But it is impossible to open high school earlier. The change in train schedules also increases the congestion of nationals 14 and 15. In order to resolve this very complex situation, I am trying to organise a meeting between the three regional presidents, which raises great difficulties. I have an appointment tonight with Mr Hervé Morin, which I hope will be a first step, but I stress the problems we are facing. We are only 50 kilometres from Pontoise, and a lot of people use the Pontoise-Paris line to go to work. But we really feel that we are left behind, which makes anger rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u159	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor to put his question, No 119, on the safety of the Central-Atlantic Europe road.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u160	Madam Minister responsible for Transport, the Central-Atlantic Europe Road – RCEA – on its crossing of the Saône-et-Loire, unfortunately, has become known as a particularly dangerous axis. This reputation is not usurped: accidents are frequent, often serious and fatal. The national media described the crossing as a "death road", either for the southern branch or the northern branch of the RCEA. Important work is under way. You came to see their achievements and progress on the ground a few days ago, and I thank you very much. The cost of the current work is over EUR 200 million. Paradoxically, however, the elected representatives and the inhabitants of the territories concerned are concerned: they fear a further interruption of the work after those under way, i.e. after 2019, and well before the completion of the entire linear, on which traffic continues to grow. A sum equivalent to the first one – more than 200 million euros – is needed to complete the work by 2023. It is the hope of all the actors, who have clearly expressed themselves in this regard and are also ready, on the side of the State, to put resources proportionate to their budget – I am thinking in particular of the region and the department. At the same time, and under your authority, the Infrastructure Guidance Board has started work. Could he look at a case like the RCEA file? His willingness, like yours, to reorient the means to focus them on real national infrastructure priorities gives rise to the hope that one day the Saône-et-Loirian crossing of the RCEA will be completed in two tracks. We will then definitely turn the sad page of various facts and accidents, which give our territory a very different picture of its reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u161	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u162	Mr Rebeyrotte, you have asked me about the prospects of continuing the construction work twice as much as two lanes from the part of the Central-Atlantic Europe road crossing the Saône-et-Loire. In 2013, in this department, 84 kilometres actually remained to be built twice two lanes, at a cost estimated at 658 million euros. The system is structured into three phases of work. For the first phase, between 2014 and 2019, the programme provided for a total of 184 million works, of which 152 million were provided by the State. This programme has been implemented, and I was able to see it on the spot, as you pointed out: nearly 22 kilometres of two-way sections have already been or will be put into operation before the end of the first half of this year. The announced budgetary pace has been maintained since 2014. It was again in 2017, despite the constraints on our investments, to keep up with the announced timetables. With regard to 2018, almost 25 million are programmed in commitment authorisations, in a national budgetary context that is still extremely constrained; they will allow to continue the work in progress on the section Paray-le-Monial-Charolles, which I have visited, and to begin those of the section Prisse-Charnay-lès-Mâcon. This important project in terms of its size and cost is being reviewed by the Infrastructure Guidance Board, which will provide me with its report this week. We will have an opportunity to debate this issue in accordance with the priorities of securing and opening up the territories that I have, when the House will be discussing the infrastructure programming bill in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u163	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u164	Minister, thank you for your attention to this issue. Having come to the site, you have seen that, if the work is going well, it is extremely important that it be completed as soon as possible. It is indeed necessary to secure the traffic, which is extremely high on this axis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u165	Mr Pascal Bois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 121 concerning the construction of the railway bar between Creil and Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u166	Minister responsible for transport, my question concerns the construction of the railway bar between Creil and the airport of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle. Among the structuring projects of the Hauts-de-France region, this 7-kilometre railway bar is undeniably more discreet than the Canal Seine-Nord project – to which I am also attached – but it is nevertheless indispensable. Many local Isarian and Hauts-de-France elected representatives questioned the future of this project in the aftermath of the National Mobility Assises, even though it was considered a priority by the State and was included in the State-region plan contracts for 2007-2013 and 2015-2020. I am convinced that this project has a place in a sustainable development strategy as it encourages the use of the train as a way of moving between home and work. It would improve the quality of life of the Isarians, who are currently forced to take their vehicle and take the already saturated A1 motorway. It would also offer employees substantial time savings and an alternative to Parisian stations – I am thinking of those who are now forced to arrive in Paris-Nord, then to go back via the RER B or the RER D to their place of work. In addition, this missing link is expected by local economic actors who wish to extend the attractiveness of the Roissy airport hub to the employment area of southern Oise by taking advantage of the advantage of the connection to the high-speed network of lines both to the rest of the national territory and to the north of Europe. Madam Minister, my question is simple: can you clarify the Government's position on the future of this project, particularly with regard to transport issues in the context of the upcoming Olympic Games in 2024 and the construction sites linked to the Grand Paris Express?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u167	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u168	Mr Bois, you asked me about the future of the railway bar project between Creil and Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport. I am well aware of the importance of the economic and environmental issues associated with the project. The construction of this 7-kilometre railway bar represents both an opportunity to link two areas of activity and an important modal shift on home-to-work journeys. The project, like all infrastructure projects, is currently being studied by the Infrastructure Guidance Board, set up within the framework of the National Mobility Facilities, which will allow us to prepare the infrastructure programming bill before it is considered, in a few weeks, by the National Assembly. The report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board will be submitted to me this week. In the context of this reflection, it is not a question of penalising a particular project, but of building a comprehensive strategy, as well as a multi-annual path of infrastructure financing, balanced in terms of expenditure and revenue, and both realistic and sincere. This work, whose main objective is to achieve rapid improvements in our transport system to facilitate the mobility of all our citizens, will give the Roissy-Picardie project a clear perspective, in particular for the launch of its public inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u169	Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u170	I thank the Minister for her response, which shows that this issue is really being addressed. I am confident that at the end of the Assises de la mobilité, this project structuring for the Hauts-de-Frances and also for the Paris region can be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u171	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, to put his question, No 123, concerning malfunctions on the RER A.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u172	Madam Minister responsible for transport, I would like to question you – and I note that I am not the only one – on a subject that concerns the north of the Île-de-France region: the proliferation of incidents affecting line A of the RER. These incidents, which lead to significant and penalizing delays for millions of Francilians and thousands of inhabitants of Val-d'Oise, often occur without any explanation being given to the users – I am thinking in particular of the disturbances that occurred at the end of last week. This RER line, which runs through seven departments and one municipality, is Europe's busiest line; It alone ensures the passage of a train every two minutes in "hyperpoint" and every two minutes thirty in peak time, for more than 1 million trips. Many of us regret the unequal treatment of the flow between different destinations. The punctuality of the trains is 70.8% for the Cergy section, compared with 72.8% for the Poissy section, 78.2% for the Saint-Germain-en-Laye section and more than 80% for the eastern part of the route. On the other hand, delays of more than five minutes are observed on the section of Cergy, whereas they are only four minutes on the section of Poissy and three minutes on the section of Saint-Germain-en-Laye – and these are only averages. In addition, the average interval between two trains is currently about thirteen minutes on the sections of Cergy and Poissy, compared with five thirty minutes on that of Saint-Germain-en-Laye and five minutes on the eastern part of the network. Minister, do you intend to make arrangements to restore fair treatment between different destinations? In this regard, the arrival of Eole is an opportunity, as part of the RER A traffic can be deported from Poissy to Cergy. But we must, of course, provide further, faster answers, which involve a recast of the transport supply and a service adjusted to the expectations of the population, and of course fewer train deletions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u173	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u174	Mr Vuilletet, you are asking me about the malfunctions of the RER A, particularly on the sections of Cergy and Poissy. In particular, you point to insufficient frequency and punctuality with respect to the Saint-Germain-en-Laye section. First of all, I would like to point out that the organizing authority, Île-de-France Mobilitys, chaired by the President of the Île-de-France region, is responsible for organising and, where appropriate, developing the service, co-operated by RATP and SNCF Mobilitys. As you point out, the arrival of Eole may be an opportunity to rethink this service, but without delay many steps have been taken. In particular, since 2011, concerted actions between the two operators have aimed to improve the service offered to users and to stabilize the overall regularity of the line, despite its very high attendance. While efforts remain to be made, the robustness of the operation is now reinforced by the renewal of rolling stock, which has been entirely at two levels since the beginning of 2017. In addition, the RER A Master Plan, in which the State participates under the State-Region Plan Contract, is being progressively implemented. The automatic steering of the central section, the extension of the driving aid system to Noisy-Champs and the strengthening of garage and rollover capacity, in particular through the creation of a fourth track in Cergy, are all measures which must contribute to the improvement of the quality of service. In addition, summer work to renew the tracks and ballast on the central section. Beyond that, reconciliation between the two operators is an imperative. Already, a unified management of the operation was put in place in autumn 2016 to promote the sharing of analyses and methods across the entire line. The service and schedule were revised at the end of 2017 to mitigate the consequences of the incidents. In addition, branch omnibus desserts have been organized to smooth the burden on them. All these measures must contribute to improving the service of the AER, for the benefit of all users, in particular those of Cergy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u175	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u176	Thank you for your very detailed answer. Indeed, it is very important that everyone's responsibilities be properly placed. But, once again, I want to make myself the interpreter of the users: last Friday, on the occasion of an incident affecting the passengers in Vincennes, the users of the branch of Cergy saw the trains moving without difficulty towards Saint-Germain-en-Laye, and with more difficulty towards their city. In any event, I take note of your promising answers, and thank you for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u177	Mr Sebastien Leclerc, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 102, concerning the difficulties encountered by public initiative networks in the field of fibre optics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u178	Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, my question concerns the improvement of Internet connections, which is one of the major issues in France's territories today. Given the gaps in the service offered by the telephone network, many communities have taken initiatives to invest in new technologies. I will take the example of Calvados, where the departmental council created, in 2011, as part of a public service delegation, a public initiative network, an RIP, to bring fiber optics to each of the 400,000 dwellings in its territory, according to the FTTH process, fiber optics to the home. Seven years after the start of the project, the observation that can be drawn is that of a technical success but of a commercial failure: technical success because 85,000 sockets are activable, i.e. almost a quarter of the network, but commercial failure since, of these 85,000 plugs activable, only 1500 generated subscriptions from an access provider. This very low marketing rate is mainly due to the fact that large operators are boycotting, for the moment, the FIRs they have not built themselves, leaving only so-called "alternative" operators, who do not seem able to convince potential customers to subscribe to their services. This very low subscription rate marks a disappointment, because a lot of public money – about 65 million euros – was used to build this network in Calvados. Moreover, this under-marketing of the existing offer undermines the economic model of the FIR, according to which the revenues generated by the first subscriptions were to be used to finance the completion of the network. Mr Secretary of State, what measures do you intend to take to encourage or even compel large operators to offer their services in the context of these FIRs? Moreover, why does the State, which remains an important shareholder of one of the main operators, not use its weight on Orange's board of directors to ensure that the incumbent participates positively in the development of very high speed by being present in the FIRs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u179	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u180	Mr Leclerc, you asked this question to the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. Coverage of the territories in fixed and mobile digital infrastructure is a priority of the Government, as access to digital technology is the first essential brick to support public services, encourage economic development and promote innovation in our territories. The ambitions are clear: to accelerate fixed Internet coverage by mobilising all technologies so that all French people, both in metropolitan France and overseas, have access to high-quality broadband as of 2020 and to very high-speed in 2022. The Government has recently reinforced the action of the local authorities by signing an envelope of €3.3 billion dedicated to the financing of public initiative networks, including 208 million commitment authorizations in the draft finance law for 2018 and 416 million committed by the Prime Minister at the National Conference of Territories in December 2017. As you point out, the commercialization of these networks, once deployed, is a central issue. This is well under way thanks to the technical and tariff harmonization work carried out by the Government. As a result, large national operators have started their presence on public initiative networks, alongside smaller operators, which drive competition. There is, however, a specificity regarding the pioneering networks, such as the Calvados, whose construction began before the launch of France's very high-speed plan. These networks are well identified and are continuously monitored by the Digital Agency. With regard to the Calvados network, the teams of the Digital Agency have been working for 18 months with the services of the departmental council and the delegate to make this network benefit from the recent harmonisation work. This work must continue, but the Government is confident that operators will be present on these networks. Access to a high-quality Internet is an essential prerequisite for the Government's digital strategy. However, connectivity is not everything, and it is essential to work in parallel on the dissemination of uses, which we are currently doing, by building a strategy for a more inclusive digital environment for our SMEs, but also for the 13 million French people who today do not know how to use the digital tools at their disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u181	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u182	Minister, the situation I have just outlined is not acceptable in the long run. You mention the government's confidence in large operators, but you have a regulatory power that would be able to force them to switch over to the FIRs. For example, it would be possible to increase the copper tariff and set targets for operators in terms of the number of FTTH plugs connected; If these binding targets were not met, this could have an impact on licence renewal. The tools exist, they are in your hand, and the territories are waiting for state action in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u183	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-30-O1126.u184	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the draft law for a State serving a trust society. The meeting is adjourned.
