ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, of the draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future (No. 904, 1019, 975, 981). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply to this discussion the procedure of scheduled legislative time on the basis of time allocated to the thirty-hour groups. Each group has the following speaking times: for the La République group on the move, seven hours and twenty-five minutes; for the Republican Group, seven hours and fifteen minutes; for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, two hours and twenty-five minutes; for the IDU group, Act and Independent, three hours and forty minutes; for the New Left group, three hours and thirty-five minutes; for the La France group, two hours and fifty-five minutes and for the Left Democratic and Republican group, two hours and fifty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u2	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u3	Non-attached Members have a time of one hour and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u4	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u5	Madam President, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, "There are few more sad virtues than resignation; It transforms into fantasies, contingent dreams, projects that were first set up as will and freedom. This quote from Simone de Beauvoir illustrates in my view what has happened in terms of employment in our society over the past twenty or thirty years. Resignation in the face of mass unemployment, especially that of young people. Resignation in the face of house arrest in the priority areas of city politics and, conversely, in the face of the initial assignment for our ultramarine fellow citizens. Resignation in the face of the continuing exclusion of persons with disabilities from the labour market. Resignation also to the occupational inequalities between women and men, particularly in the face of wage inequality, which has been illegal for 45 years, and gender and sexual harassment. Resignation still in the face of a system of learning engulfed in Malthusian logic and in the face of a devalued image. Finally, a resignation in the face of the sedimented complexity of a system of vocational training, which was at the forefront in the 1970s but was now unfair and which no longer allowed social promotion, since it gave twice as much access to training for workers, employees and employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. Gradually, therefore, we have given in to fatalism. This fatalism undermines our republican promise of social emancipation. It alienates the will and freedom of our fellow citizens, and therefore our collective ability to project ourselves calmly into the future. This freedom began, in particular that of the 1.3 million of our young people, the equivalent of the population of the metropolis of Lyon, who are not currently in employment, education or training. Yet these young people are neither without desires, nor without dreams, nor without plans! This freedom has begun, and it is that of these women and men who have had to abandon their plans for professional development or retraining because of the combatant's journey and the scale of the sacrifices in order to make it a reality. This freedom has begun, it is that of entrepreneurs who, without having found a skilled labour force, abandon a hiring project, a development project! Half of the recruitment difficulties are related to this lack of competence. All these projects, all these potential talents that have not yet found their way of expression, we no longer want to do without them! We must give them birth, accompany them, promote them for the benefit of all! It is a threefold imperative: social, economic, and cohesion. It is not enough to consolidate growth, finally back in our country, we must make it rich in jobs and inclusive. It is essential not to leave anyone at the edge of the road. In a world where 50 per cent of jobs will be profoundly transformed over the next ten years, we need to promote simpler, faster, wider and fairer access to the major asset of the 21st century: skills. The challenge for our country is to win the global battle of skills, and for everyone to plan for the future with confidence. Competence is the best protection against unemployment. It is the active social protection of the twenty-first century. This is why emancipation through work and training is our social project. This is the meaning of the unprecedented effort that the Government is making through the competence investment plan. With EUR 15 billion over five years, it will provide training and support to one million unskilled jobseekers and one million young dropouts by 2022. It is deployed through an ambitious partnership with the regions and innovative actions in particular in the digital sector, the ecological transition, the professions in tension, and the inclusion in employment of the most vulnerable. However, structurally, the levers for the acquisition of skills, i.e. initial apprenticeship training and continuing training, are now limited. These obstacles, these persistent discriminations, these lacks of anticipation of future changes, we must lift them up to open the field of possibilities. It is precisely through our ability to create this area of emancipation that we will allow our fellow citizens to freely choose their professional future, benefiting from collective protections. This protective freedom implies no longer being forced to give up or to suffer. It's having the full ability to choose and dare! This is the purpose of the bill "For the freedom to choose your professional future" that I have the honour to bring on behalf of the Government. This bill is the result of important inter-ministerial work with Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, and Frédérique Vidal, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disability, Marlène Schiappa, Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men, and Olivier Dussopt, Secretary of State for the Civil Service. This bill is also the result of seven months of consultation and negotiations, two inter-professional agreements between the social partners on vocational training and unemployment insurance, and three in-depth consultation processes on apprenticeship, gender equality and sexual harassment, and access to employment for persons with disabilities. I would like to welcome the intense work of the social partners: a significant part of the measures before you today are the result of their proposals. These wide-ranging consultations were complemented by some 50 visits and exchanges with actors on the ground. I am convinced that we must start from the ground and from people to rebuild systems, to empower our fellow citizens to meet their aspirations. My method was as follows on each of the topics: making and sharing the diagnosis, then finding solutions together to deal with the causes and not just the symptoms, consulting and negotiating with the social partners and the public authorities concerned. After the passing of the law, we will have to pilot and evaluate implementation, keep track of results, and report back to you. I had the opportunity to present the ambition of this text to you in the Committee on Social Affairs two weeks ago. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, Brigitte Bourguignon, for the excellent holding of the debates. They made it possible to fully appreciate the quality of the work of the rapporteurs on the merits, Catherine Fabre, Aurélien Taché, and Nathalie Elimas, and of the draftsmen, Sylvie Charière and Graziella Melchior. I thank them all for that. I would also like to welcome the involvement of the rapporteurs for the information of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories Ericka Bareigts, Justine Benin, and Josette Manin, not to mention the proposals of the delegation to women's rights, of which Pierre Cabaré spoke, and the international comparison work carried out by Thierry Michels, rapporteur for observation of the Committee on European Affairs. This intensive work and its varied prisms bear witness to the multidimensional nature of the challenges that we will face, first this week in the Chamber and then in the field. This bill, as you know, is Act II of the presidential commitment to the profound renovation of our social model. With Act I and the ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue, we have made the bet of trust in the actors, in order to bring together in a reactive way, close to the ground, through the decentralization of social dialogue, the imperative of economic performance with that of social progress. Act II, the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future, brings the ambition of social emancipation to the heart of the republican promise. The text is structured around three interdependent and coherent axes. The first is the creation of new rights, concrete, easily mobilizable and adapted to our time, capable of constituting a genuine professional protection, universal, simple and effective, at the service of individual and collective emancipation. The second is the effectiveness of these rights for the greatest number of people, which requires removing many administrative, regulatory and financial barriers. Finally, the ambition of the first two axes cannot be fully satisfied if it is not guided by the imperative of equal opportunities and equal opportunities. That's our third axis. New concrete rights, first of all. In terms of learning, the freedom to choose one's career requires that young people and their families finally know the truth about this path of success, excellence and passion, which benefits only 420,000 apprentices, or 7% of young people aged 16 to 26, because of a system now Malthusian. I'll come back. We guarantee this right to the truth in terms of guidance in two complementary ways, by introducing transparency in the rate of integration into employment, from the success rate to the diplomas of all apprentice training centres and all vocational lycées, but also by broadening the competence of the regions in matters of guidance. They will organize with all colleges and high schools a discovery of the fields and trades through the meeting of professionals who will come to talk about their passion. This right to information, which is essential for guidance, is complemented by measures designed to increase the attractiveness of this particular initial training route, such as an increase in the remuneration of apprentices or an aid of EUR 500 for driving licences. Young people will also have the opportunity to enter apprenticeship throughout the year and to make use of their achievements in order to shorten the duration of the training or, on the contrary, in case of difficulties, to increase it by "pre-apprenticeship". The duration of the contracts may range from six months to three years depending on the learning experience and needs of each young person. In addition, we want to introduce a spirit of complementarity between learning and school status, by establishing bridges between these two different educational channels and by establishing the campuses of trades bringing together all the fields. Similarly, we will develop the "Erasmus pro" through which apprentices will be able to stay for several months in other European countries to improve their training, learn other techniques, discover other cultures, mature and understand what Europe is. In that regard, I welcome the amendment proposed by the delegation to the Overseas Territories, which opens up, on an experimental basis, the possibility of executing part of the apprenticeship contract abroad to promote "regional oceanic" mobility. On the other hand, as regards the new rights, we are creating a new powerful mechanism for conversion and promotion through alternation. The aim of an amendment adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs, called Pro A, is to enable employees to have access, while retaining their employment contract and remuneration, to vocational training in alternation, either for internal promotion or for retraining. It will also help to meet the specific needs of certain sectors of activity, in particular the voluntary and medico-social sector, and to anticipate conversions linked to changes, while retaining employment. This is a key element that complements the company's training plan – now a skills development plan – and individual law, through a strengthened element that is the personal training account – CPF. A complete palette is thus created. The principle of this individual right, the personal training account, enshrined in the law in 2014 following a 2013 professional agreement, is however now perceived by employees and job seekers as too formal and not easily accessible: it is not up to the stakes. That is why this text transforms it into a real tool of social emancipation by hand of the assets, with collective protection. As with learning, we rely on transparency and the ability of everyone to decide for themselves with the necessary advice. Through a dedicated application, everyone, with their CPF and without intermediaries, will be able to compare the quality of the training, which will have to be certified, know the satisfaction of the users and find the appropriate training, before registering and paying online. Moreover, the acquired rights on the CPF will be paid in euros: it will not only be more effective, more meaningful and more direct in use, but also fairer. In fact, the current rights in hours favour those who are already at the highest level of qualification and who, on equal terms, have a much larger budget for training. The increased duties will be EUR 500 for all, per year, and EUR 800 for the least qualified, i.e. EUR 5000 and EUR 8000 respectively over ten years. In addition, part-time workers, who are 80 per cent of women, will benefit from the same annual abundance as full-time workers, to avoid low-skilled and low-wage traps. Contrary to an idea received, the assets will not be alone. All those who wish to do so will be able to have free professional development advice, financed by mutualisation, which will accompany them in their professional projects, as defined and desired by the social partners in their agreement of 22 February. In addition, the creation of a personal transitional training account, taken over by the same agreement, will make it possible to supplement the CPF for employees who want to convert themselves by means of long training. Finally, in order to manage the occupational transition project, you have adopted in committee the creation at regional level of joint inter-branch committees dedicated to the support of employees. Approved by the State, they will also be responsible for assessing the real and serious nature of the occupational project of the employees who resign. Moreover, both resigning and self-employed workers will benefit, under certain conditions, from the unemployment insurance safety net. A person with a professional project – conversion, start-up – will be able to resign, be compensated by unemployment insurance and thus have the time and money to prepare his project. This is a major step forward, which is based on the bet that the sum of personal projects contributes to the collective benefit. In accordance with the presidential project, the aim is to provide additional financial security and to outline, for the benefit of the self-employed, a new active social protection which secures mobility on the labour market and takes into account the diversity of the statutes during working life. But creating more rights for everyone requires increasing their effectiveness by removing all barriers – this is the second axis. The greatest number of people have access to learning on the basis of a prerequisite: opening up and increasing the supply of training, taking into account both the energy of many quality networks which today want to invest more and cannot, than that of sectors or companies which want to create their own CFA. To this end, we delete the administrative authorization issued to create or develop a CFA. It was a unique case in Europe! We replace it with a guarantee of financing and a guarantee of quality. With regard to the financing guarantee, any contract between a young person and the company will be financed through a contract financing mechanism, the amount of which will be determined by the professional branches, and guaranteed by an inter-branch equalisation, in order to avoid too great a difference in resources between the branches. To encourage companies to recruit in apprenticeship, several practical provisions are introduced: abolition of the heavy procedure for registering the contract; pragmatic adaptation of the rules on working hours and termination of the apprenticeship contract; Finally, only one aid, which will be paid directly to companies instead of four which must be claimed, even though many of them do not know them. Finally, we ensure the quality of training provided by two levers. The first is the co-writing of professional diplomas by the professional branches and by the State. France is currently a sad exception, since it considers that professionals are not in a position to define the professional content of trades. Simply consulted, they will become co-decision makers. The second is the certification of training organizations and CFAs who want to apply from public or mutualised credits. In the field of vocational training, we introduce for the first time in the Labour Code a definition of training action, which is flexible and promotes pedagogical innovation and distance learning. We also simplify the regulation of the training plan, now called the Skills Development Plan. Finally, we are setting up competent operators to replace joint collecting bodies. They will focus on counselling and forward-looking management of jobs and skills. In terms of managing the contributions of alternation and training, we also plan a radical simplification: a collector – the USSRAF – instead of fifty-seven; 12 managers instead of 40; one contribution instead of two. Transparency and systematic mutualisation will make it possible to finance the development of vocational training and apprenticeship without increasing compulsory levies by one euro. Finally, in order to regulate the scheme, instead of four national bodies, we create a public institution, France responsibilities, which will bring together the State, the regions and the social partners, thus becoming co-responsible for regulating the system, its cost and its quality. As far as jobseekers are concerned, in order to enable them to return to work more quickly, we will experiment with a logbook system, with a view to making applications more effective, preventing discouragement and better anticipating and preparing interviews with counsellors. This will be accompanied by a redefinition of the reasonable offer of employment, which will no longer be based on rigid criteria, but will be determined as close to the field as possible, through dialogue with the adviser, to take account of the individual situation of each person and the characteristics of the local labour market. At the same time, we will put in place a fairer and more effective control policy, with a fair scale of sanctions and the simplification of the imposition of sanctions. Finally, the role of the State is clarified in determining the rules for unemployment compensation, in order to facilitate the adaptation of the scheme to changes in the labour market, while preserving the central role of the social partners. The third and final axis aims to put the creation of new rights at the service of real equality of opportunity. We will ensure that as many people as possible have access to learning throughout the country. We anticipate the presence of disability referents in each CFA to accompany young people with disabilities, with a financial increase. It should be noted that 1% of apprentices are young people with disabilities, compared with 6% to 7% in the reference population. We will also pay particular attention to rural areas and priority areas of city policy, as well as overseas areas. My colleague Jean-Michel Blanquer and I hope that all vocational lycées will be able to open learning sections, in order to strengthen the offer, especially in the priority areas of the city, in which it is often very insufficient. In addition, a €250 million envelope dedicated to spatial planning will complement contract financing in rural areas and in the city's priority areas: it will be at the hands of the regions. Finally, I would like to point out that the regions will remain the main investor in terms of learning. They retain their portion of the domestic consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – whose revenues are dynamic. They will be able to influence the location of CFAs, pool technical platforms with professional lycées and establish contracts of objectives and means with the branches in a context of a regional non-prescriptive scheme. Equal opportunities require the pooling of the training system, also with a view to rebalancing the gap between TPEs and SMEs in access to skills, in the context of a mutualisation favouring their employees, whereas this is the reverse today. You have completed this leverage effect by introducing an increase in the annual abundance of the CPF for employees with disabilities. This proposal is part of our vision of a more inclusive society. Our approach is to mobilise all the mechanisms of common law and to ensure that the obligation to employ disabled workers is the real lever for the direct employment of disabled people. We need to change the scale in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u6	Pff! Fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u7	A large number of provisions are in this direction. They are the result of the first phase of consultation with the social partners and associations, which we concluded last Tuesday with my colleague Sophie Cluzel. This dialogue will continue around the provision of services. In particular, it will build on the mission of your colleague Adrien Taquet and that of Dominique Gillot, President of the CNCPH – National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities. That is why I will ask you, only on offer, to empower the Government to legislate by ordinances, in order to integrate the results of the second phase of consultation that is beginning today into the law as soon as possible. Re-establishing equal opportunities also means acting effectively and decisively to promote professional equality between women and men. As announced by the Government on 7 March, the draft law includes major advances in the fight against gender-based and sexual violence and occupational equality. You have strengthened them by adopting several government amendments which, again, result from intensive consultation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u8	Blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u9	Thus, you have taken on a very important principle, namely the transition from an obligation of means to an obligation of result as regards equal pay for work of equal value, which has not been respected for forty-five years: it is one of the few laws of the Republic which, massively, is not respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u10	It's a scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u11	With regard to the prevention of harassment, you have adopted measures for the training, awareness-raising and accountability of all actors. To establish equal opportunities is, of course, to fight against precarious work, which is again being experienced by a large number of women. To this end, we leave it to the social partners in the professional branches, who have requested it, to negotiate targets for reducing the number of precarious contracts until the end of 2018. Otherwise, we foresee the possibility of setting up a bonus-malus system. You have given an opportunity in committee to take into account the sector of activity for the modulation of the rate of employers' contributions to unemployment insurance. As far as the interim sector is concerned, you have introduced an important innovation: the imputation of temporary tasks to user companies, in order to empower them in the fight against excessive precariousness. "We want to look to the future with confidence." This, ladies and gentlemen, is the decisive message that the French have sent us by choosing, both in the presidential election and in the general elections, to push back the extremes and to believe in a possible different, despite the same rise in extremes that is continuing in a worrying way in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u12	Who are the extremes?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u13	Maybe you're talking about extremist bosses?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u14	Creating the conditions for our citizens to achieve this: this is our responsibility in this context. Let us therefore be determined to give everyone, especially among the most vulnerable, the means to freely define their own path of professional success, with strengthened collective protections, i.e. to choose the field in which they can have greater self-confidence, to dare to engage, express their talent and transmit it. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why, with this ambitious bill that opens the door to everyone, we bet on our collective ability to mobilize, with a view to creating a space for social emancipation through work. Let us ensure that French society, more united, more inclusive and carried by its founding values of freedom, equality and fraternity, wins the global battle of skills, guaranteeing economic performance, social progress and, ultimately, shared trust in our future. That's all of us. Thank you in advance for our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u15	Mrs Fabre, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, the right of everyone to have access to training and employment, set out in the preamble to the constitution of 27 October 1946, is still a matter for many of the theoretical horizon. It is now high time to ensure that everyone has concrete access to this right, without discrimination or obstacles. That is the purpose of Title I of this bill, which I have the honour to report. The debates in committee and the report from our work go back to the content of the reform in an exhaustive way. I will therefore stress three points which I believe are essential in this text. The first is the consecration of the individual, an actor of his professional future and free to choose it. Looking at the developments in each of the previous laws, we see that in the field of adult education, we have gradually moved from an obligation to pay for the employer, which has allowed the emergence of a vocational training offer, to a chosen and assumed investment logic, which we ourselves wish to reaffirm. In the area of the right to training, we have moved from a logic of law to second chance, as Jacques Chaban-Delmas said, in a relatively static economy, to a logic of lifelong learning, for all, beyond the statutes, in an economy in the midst of digital transition that enshrines competence as a key factor for success.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u17	No, the qualification. This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u18	Today, in order to respond to these two fundamental challenges, so that all companies invest and all individuals are formed throughout their lives, we still have to take up a challenge, central to this reform: let everyone feel concerned and become an actor in their training journey. Just as it is not appropriate to force companies to spend on training, there is no point in sending people into training. Meeting needs, giving envy, providing information, allowing for an easy and informed choice: these are the goals we set ourselves with this bill. I tell you this with all my conviction and in the words of Bertrand Schwartz: "We do not learn to swim to someone who does not see the interest of crossing the river. Nor do we learn to swim to someone who is afraid of water. It is on these basic teaching principles that the philosophy of this reform is based. Unfortunately, we are still in a system where decisions are taken instead of the main ones concerned. The guidance of young people is widely prescribed. The CPF is mainly activated by the employment unit or by the enterprises, without the individual being always informed of it. Training plans are not often explained to employees. The same applies to companies, which are now very little involved in learning decisions: while they finance the system, they do not have a say in the content of diplomas or even in the provision of apprenticeship training. With this reform, we aim to reverse this logic and give each player the means to manage its own decisions on skills. This does not at all mean abandoning everyone to his or her own fate. On the contrary, we propose to redouble our efforts to give more information and rights to those who today do not have access to training. We are strengthening the rights of the least qualified, of part-time workers and especially of women. We put in place a personalized and free accompaniment for all, which will finally give itself the financial means of its ambitions. We plan dedicated funding for small businesses so that they can deploy ambitious skills development plans. We are introducing a "Pro A" system, which offers employees the opportunity to learn alternately while remaining in their company, and companies to adapt to technological changes through internal mobility. We strengthen the career path of young people, both in high school and in secondary school, which makes a big contribution to the discovery of trades within the school. It is by presenting to our young people the scope of the trade opportunities available to them that every young person in our country will be able to marry a school and professional project with envy. The CPF in euros, described by some, is also part of this ambition. It is easier to understand by the working population, who see directly that they have the resources to train, in their hand, and who will therefore want to take it. As of tomorrow, it will be 500 euros a year that will feed the CPF of assets, and even 800 euros a year for the least qualified of them. The CPF in euros is also a means of promoting social dialogue and exchange around training in the company. Employees will have the means to train themselves, either alone or in co-construction with their employer or branch, which will inevitably lead to a proliferation of exchanges within the company around each other's professional projects and the opportunity to carry out specific training. It is through the acquisition of skills that the individual secures his or her career, and not necessarily only through training; the validation of experience gains – EVA – allows for the establishment of tailor-made training pathways. Distance learning enables everyone to manage their training time flexibly and in a manner adapted to their constraints. Training in the workplace, through tutoring or peer-to-peer training, also allows for the acquisition of skills that are easier, faster and directly applied. These are all the facilities allowed by the bill to better meet the needs of individuals and businesses, to encourage them to finally take up this problem with arms. The stakes are clearly assumed on our benches: it is a matter of guaranteeing the appropriation of these tools by the employees, by limiting to the maximum the intermediaries but promoting the accompaniment and ensuring concrete information on the rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u20	The second major aspect of the reform is the reform of learning. It is a professional path recognized as "intrusive", allowing various paths, closer to the reality of the trades, and can be a strong response to our youth. Unfortunately, our country has a youth unemployment rate of 22 per cent. That is why we make the choice of valuing and developing learning, a path of excellence and passion. This majority is not the first to want to put alternation at the heart of our initial training system, but, for the first time, these issues are dealt with in a comprehensive way, whether it is the relaxation of the legal regime of the contract, the raising of the age limit, the establishment of apprenticeship training centres, the financing of the contract, the respective responsibilities of the regions and branches or the simplification of aid to employers... We are making the choice to put all the chances on the learning side, the choice to lift all the obstacles so that France can boost its economy by relying on a skilled workforce, like other countries that have managed to stem youth unemployment. For the first time, we trust initiatives on the territory, businesses and CFAs, that is, those that do. We refuse to regulate the system by administrative decisions a priori. I am aware of the concern that such a change can give rise to, especially since this is a complete change in the administrative, pedagogical and financial paradigm. We must take on this change, because it is necessary, but we must also reassure ourselves. Thus, we offer a thorough orientation course at the college and high school. We're certifying the CFAs. We entrust the branches with the task of better defining the skills required to be a master of learning. We accompany the apprentice upstream in his orientation, and downstream if his contract is broken, to secure his course. Finally, the regions retain their investment competence and their allocation for spatial planning, particularly in rural areas. The third major change in the reform is the overhaul of the governance and financing of vocational training. Consistent with our desire to give back the keys to the most affected actors – individuals and companies – we want to clarify and simplify the workings of the system so that everyone can understand it, seize it, and our will can take shape. We are all aware of this: the institutional landscape is illegible, fragmented and opaque. Who can find themselves there today in the middle of the Joint Fund for the Safeguarding of Career Paths – FPSPP –, the National Council – CNEFOP – and the Regional Committees – CREFOP – on Employment, Training and Career Guidance, the National Interprofessional Joint Committee – COPANEF – and the Regional Interprofessional Joint Committees – COPAREF – for Employment and Vocational Training, the National Commission for Professional Certification – CNCP? The draft law therefore notes the creation of a national quadripartite body, France responsibilities, in charge of the regulation of vocational training policy. Let us welcome the courage of this reform which has been delayed for too long, though indispensable! With regard to funding, the single contribution required by the draft law must enable, without going back to the envelopes allocated to vocational training and apprenticeship, three major advances: a simplification for companies, which will have only one interlocutor, the network of USSRAFs; better management, which will enable more resources to be identified for training; greater flexibility to finance the CPF, the training of jobseekers and the development of skills in enterprises with fewer than 50 employees. Thus, noting that the formal rights established by previous laws sometimes find it difficult to translate into reality, this bill enshrines the transition to real rights, accessible to each individual. The work of the committee has considerably enriched the text. A total of 297 amendments were adopted, bringing the text from sixty-six to eighty-two articles. On this occasion, I would like to thank the chair of the commission for the quality of our debates, the minister for her presence and parliamentarians on all sides for their investment in meeting the challenge of the bill. Abundance increased by the CPF for disabled workers; establishment of regional joint inter-professional committees responsible for the review of the transitional CPF and the plan for the conversion of resignations; accountability of collective bargaining in the implementation of professional interviews, publicity of the activity and ethics of the French players skills; extension of the support of apprentices by the CFA for six months; the creation of a pre-worker, strengthening of the CFA missions towards apprentices; creation of a new "Pro A" alternance training scheme; preservation of previous funding exemptions; increased transparency both in the CFAs and in the management of skills operators... Time would not be sufficient to mention the progress made by the 207 amendments adopted on Title I alone. I would like to stress the particular attention paid to the farthest from vocational training, which we believe is a priority. Women's access to vocational training and the specific nature of the ultramarine territories will have been widely relayed during our discussions. People with disabilities, in particular, will have focused all our attention, pending the conclusions of the consultation with the social partners on this subject, given after our discussions in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I can only express the hope that the debates in the public sitting will prolong and enrich these advances, in a climate as constructive and committed as that of the Committee on Social Affairs. This beautiful bill and its challenges deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u21	Mr Aurélien Taché, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, a new majority arrived, with a plan for a global transformation aimed at responding to the changes that profoundly affect our economy, our report to work and the organisation of the latter, because we are convinced that it is one of the keys to the emancipation that we want for all French people. The society in which we believe is the society in which every individual who wants to work can do so, where the salary he receives in return for his work is fair and where the work done enriches and flourishes, which implies that he is chosen rather than suffered and, for each one, bearer of meaning. The freedom that we have given to companies to increase the supply of work through the ordinances ratified last year and the establishment of free jobs to encourage them to recruit in neighbourhoods where many of those who want to work can never do so, as well as the actions undertaken to ensure that work pays – abolition of certain wage contributions, increase of the activity premium – must now be accompanied by a strengthening of the freedom of workers, self-employed and employees. The time when we were doing our whole career in the same company is over, and that's so much better. Vocational mobility becomes the rule for a majority of French people, and these are opportunities to multiply experiences and encounters, as well as to have the certainty that a second chance will always be allowed. However, we are not equal in terms of the opportunities that this mobility can offer, nor the risks that it may entail. Our responsibility is therefore to accompany it, so that it is experienced by all as progress, an increase in freedom. The possibility of a much easier change of profession and region – of the same life – and of no longer being confined to a job that we have more or less been forced to accept or whose reality is finally very far from the one we had originally imagined, or that we simply want to leave after a few years for new horizons, is a wonderful thing, which is at the heart of the project of society that we defend. But this implies that your initial curriculum, which may, for example, have taken place as part of an apprenticeship, does not close any door or even be valued; that you can, regardless of your level of qualification and at any time in your life, train and evolve; you are compensated during this conversion if you decide to resign or if the activity you started fails. This new configuration, brought about by the ever-increasing openness of our societies, the democratization of knowledge and knowledge and by an economy now largely based on the capacity to innovate, calls for the introduction of new protections that allow every Frenchman to be equipped in the face of the risks and to seize the opportunities that will arise, in order to really choose his future. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are going to propose to you with this text. To the freedom to undertake must answer that of work. In the society of the freedom of work that this majority defends, a financial sector framework whose career has been guided only by dominant social conventions and which has finally freed itself from it can tomorrow become a baker, and a young person who has not finished his studies because he did not perceive the interest can form and replace it. These major societal changes, linked both to the transformation of our economy and to the aspirations of our fellow citizens for greater autonomy, lead, behind apparent stability, to fundamental changes in the labour market. Of course, it still includes 80 % of employees on open-ended contracts, 10 % of self-employed and 10 % of persons on "atypical" contracts, but while since the 1970s the number of self-employed workers has decreased, it is increasing again today. This category is also home to new sociological profiles, far removed from the traditional professions which then composed it – liberal professions, traders and artisans – with people without heritage who seek to develop their own activity, but who are misunderstood by our social model, and therefore more exposed to precariousness – I am thinking here of graphic designers and translators, but also drivers of passenger cars with drivers or delivery agents, or the many self-employed workers to whom certain industrial or computer companies outsource part of their activity. Many of these workers claim the flexibility and freedom offered by self-employment: the ability to choose their schedules, to maximize their earnings and to adjust the way we work – in short, to escape any link of subordination – which is undoubtedly the maximum level of emancipation and must therefore be facilitated for all those who wish to do so. These workers who do not want to be employed, however, need protection and power, like employees, to train, negotiate, be covered in the event of an accident and have the guarantee of a decent income. Many of them work with economic actors such as networking platforms that revolutionize entire sectors and on which they sometimes rely for a large part of their activity. That is why I will propose, in addition to the new allowance to be created for all self-employed workers and to which I will return, an amendment aimed at encouraging this social responsibility, setting out a framework that can secure these labour relations and ensure in practice and without delay new rights for these workers. The various platforms or contractors who wish to benefit from this security will have to commit themselves to the realization of charters which will define the rights and obligations of the workers with whom they are related, in particular their non-exclusive nature and the provisions they provide for in terms of risk prevention, income guarantees or negotiation framework, as well as in the event of a break in relations. These charters, which may be approved by the Ministry of Labour, will then be enforceable against the parties. The amendment also provides that, from a certain level of turnover, the platforms will now have to abound the personal training account of the workers with whom they are related, at the level of a full-time employee. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will set up a new and protective framework for all workers in the collaborative economy. In order to recognise the contribution of this economy to integration, I will propose another amendment aimed at enabling those platforms which operate according to a cooperative and solidarity model to be eligible for funding for integration through economic activity. Indeed, I am convinced that for people who have often not worked for a long time and who may have real difficulties in relational terms, in terms of stability or to respect a schedule, self-employment, which leaves more autonomy, can be a solution to get out of exclusion. Beyond the resurgence of self-employment, in recent years we have also witnessed the unprecedented development of short-term contracts, particularly for less than a month. According to UNEDIC, 80 per cent of current hires are on contracts of less than one month and two thirds are on long-term employment relationships. The precarization of work then becomes a structural phenomenon, which locks employees into going back and forth between employment and unemployment. Strong measures are needed to reverse it. In addition to this, there is still a high unemployment rate – slightly more than 9% – which affects many young people: 1.3 million of them are, unfortunately, still unemployed, and nearly one in two in some neighbourhoods. It is therefore for them and to respond to these various challenges that we are undertaking this reform – not just to contemplate changes at work, such as short contracts, self-entrepreneurship, the development of digital networking platforms, vocational reorientation and increasing training needs, but to transform them into opportunities for all our citizens. The Government has taken full account of these developments by first asking the social partners to take them into account in the implementation of the presidential programme supported by the majority. The aim was to review the entire training system to make it more operational and more targeted to those who have the most difficulty finding a job, and to extend unemployment insurance to self-employed and resigning employees, to accompany them in their mobility. The social partners must also commit themselves to better regulating the use of short contracts, which are contributing to the precariousness and destabilization of UNEDIC's finances. The latter must be safeguarded, first in order to guarantee the current rights of jobseekers, which must then be sanctified and extended in a true logic of universality. On 22 February, a national interprofessional agreement was adopted and initialled by all the representative organisations, with the exception of the CGT. This agreement, the result of a social dialogue of several months, is partly in line with the presidential commitments and is essentially reflected in the draft law. I can only congratulate the Government on that. The text does indeed lay the foundations for the universalisation of unemployment insurance. It thus responds to the changes in the labour market and to the needs for occupational mobility and the encouragement of the initiative to create an activity. To this end, it provides, first of all, for the opening of unemployment insurance to those who were previously excluded from it: workers who have resigned and self-employed. The aim of opening up to resignations is to encourage the individual initiative of retraining and of setting up or resuming an enterprise. Indeed, many French people who have a project do not dare to commit themselves, because its success requires time to devote to it and to leave their company without being compensated. De facto, this approach is now reserved for those who have been able to save, and therefore for those who are more affluent. By giving resignations the right to receive unemployment insurance, we make it possible for all French people to undertake or choose their work. In order to ensure that the risk-taking inherent in this approach is measured and does not turn into forced unemployment, employees wishing to resign will have to draw up their project, the reality and seriousness of which will have to be validated by a joint body to be set up for this purpose, and will first receive advice in professional development. As for openness to the self-employed, the aim is to better protect this population from the risk of loss of activity. The situation of the self-employed has changed considerably over time, and the historical reasons for excluding them from the scope of unemployment insurance – i.e. their supposed ability to self-insure thanks to their wealth – are now outdated. The Government is therefore planning, in addition to the measures I mentioned earlier on the platforms, the creation of a specific allocation, a flat-rate amount of 800 euros, paid for a maximum period of six months. On my initiative, the Committee on Social Affairs has made it clear that this allocation will be financed by part of the tax resources allocated to UNEDIC in the future, not by contributions, in a real logic of universalisation. Because extended rights can only be guaranteed if UNEDIC is in good financial health, as I said, we must fight against the proliferation of short contracts, especially those of less than a month, which weigh heavily on the balance of unemployment insurance. The social partners have committed themselves to opening sectoral negotiations and to making proposals. Let's make sure they're enough. If, however, they were not, the Government could implement by decree a bonus-malus mechanism on the employer's contribution to unemployment insurance, undertaken per enterprise, depending on the number of contracts giving rise to the inclusion of the former employee on the list of jobseekers. The committee adopted two important amendments to Rule 29. The first, from the La République en marche group, introduces into the scope of the bonus -malus the supply contracts concluded between the temporary undertakings and the enterprises using temporary workers. The second makes it possible to modulate the employer contribution of unemployment insurance according to a new criterion: the sector of activity of the enterprise, which will allow to take account, in the event of implementation of the bonus-malus, of the specificities of each type of activity. These measures would make it possible to put an end to companies which, within each sector, use and abuse these contracts and lock up their employees in precarious conditions, and to recognise, on the contrary, the efforts of those who are fighting to offer them a quality job which will enable them to project themselves in the future. Still in order to combat the proliferation of short contracts, the committee has adopted an amendment, tabled by me, aimed at experimenting with the replacement of several employees by a single employee in CSD, which is impossible in the rule of law and can be really useful in certain sectors of activity. Beyond these parametric measures important for the balance of unemployment insurance, the open path to universalisation of rights calls for a profound reform of its financing. After the abolition of the wage contribution, which turns gross wages into net wages for all French, and the reduction of the employer's contribution, which gives as much scope for companies to recruit and whose bases were laid in the latest law on the financing of social security, UNEDIC will therefore receive tax revenues – this will be a fraction of CSG – under conditions defined by the next law on the financing of social security. The creation of rights for all, attached to individuals and not to the statutes, and thus facilitating the transition from one to the other, requires financing by all, and therefore by tax. It also implies a new responsibility for Parliament, which will now have to decide annually on the revenue to be allocated to the unemployment insurance scheme. This reform of funding also logically involves the reform of governance. The Prime Minister will therefore send a scoping document to the social partners before the negotiations on the unemployment insurance agreement, in order to define in particular the financial path to be followed. At my initiative, the Committee on Social Affairs has adopted two amendments aimed at involving the social partners more closely in the drafting of the scoping document. The first is to establish a systematic prior consultation with them on the content of this document before it is transmitted by the Prime Minister and, on the other hand, to provide that the scoping document indicates the macroeconomic assumptions on which the financial trajectory is based, as well as the three-year forecasts of the amount of tax revenue allocated to unemployment insurance in the future. Again, this is the consequence of the change in logic that we are making: the universality of rights requires tax financing, and therefore greater state intervention. The promise of a truly universal unemployment insurance system will be well maintained. Title II of the draft law finally reshapes the relationship between jobseekers and the Employment Centre, in order to develop an even greater bond of trust, guaranteeing an efficient and well-accompanied search for employment. Article 34 thus provides for the experiment for 18 months, in two regions, of the maintenance by jobseekers of a regularly updated "logbook" thus allowing a more direct and less administrative link with the employment adviser. At the initiative of the majority and your rapporteur, particular attention will be paid, in the context of this experiment, to persons with disabilities or with poor knowledge of French, so that this new accompanying tool is adapted to them, and to anticipate any difficulties they may encounter in using it. Article 35 modernises the definition of reasonable offer of employment, which now evolves over time according to poorly adapted mechanical criteria. Again, the definition of a reasonable job offer – ORE – on a voluntary basis will be based on the relationship between the job seeker and his or her advisor, allowing him or her to really adjust to each other's situation. Finally, I would point out that Articles 36a and 36b are the result of the adoption by the committee of two amendments by our opposition colleagues. Article 36a provides that the decision of Pôle Emploi concerning the payment of the insurance allowance shall, subject to nullity, specify the remedies and time limits for appeal. It follows from the adoption of two identical amendments by the New Left and GDR groups. As for Article 36b, which is the result of the adoption of another amendment by the GDR Group, it provides for a report to be submitted to Parliament within two years of the enactment of the law on the non-use of unemployment insurance rights, since the effectiveness of the rights is a top priority for us. I am well aware that this spirit of concord will not necessarily prevail over all our debates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u23	Especially since our time is running out!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...and that's quite normal, because we're here to confront our points of view. In any case, I hope that our discussions in public can be as calm as they were in committee and that we will have a good debate on this bill, which I believe is crucial to the lives of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u25	Mrs Nathalie Elimas, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteurs, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill we are considering today is to give everyone the freedom to choose their professional future. In order for this ambition – I will even say: this commitment – to be translated into concrete terms, it must be addressed to all: everyone, regardless of their personal, professional or family situation, must have the opportunity and the means to be an actor in their professional career. Title III, which I have the honour to report, is intended to meet this imperative of equal treatment and equal opportunities. It is by adapting employment policies to the most vulnerable, and sometimes the furthest from employment, that we will achieve a more inclusive and just society. The first part of Title III concerns the employment of persons with disabilities. Today we are facing a lack of inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. In this connection, I would like to remind you of two edifying statistics. First, persons with disabilities are twice as likely to be unemployed as non-disabled persons with the same characteristics, and their periods of unemployment are longer. Second, the participation rate of persons with disabilities is only 43 per cent, compared with 72 per cent for the rest of the population. It is a real problem of discrimination in employment against people with disabilities that we must solve. A recent barometer carried out by the Defender of Rights and the International Labour Organization has thus highlighted the high level of discrimination to which they are exposed: all the criteria of discrimination combined, it is almost one in two persons with disabilities who declare that they have been discriminated against in employment! These developments call for strong and ambitious measures for the employment of persons with disabilities. A first step was the holding of the first interdepartmental committee on disability on 20 September under the auspices of the Prime Minister. It met the presidential commitment to make disability policy a five-year priority. This was followed by a consultation with the social partners and associations to reform employment policy for people with disabilities. The first conclusions of this consultation are very concretely translated into this bill. I will present two of the main measures for the employment and accessibility of persons with disabilities contained in Title III. First of all, the obligation to employ disabled workers requiring establishments with more than 20 employees to have 6 % of the total number of disabled workers is renewed and enshrined as the main instrument for the direct employment of disabled workers. The way in which the employer reports the employment of disabled workers is simplified by incorporating them into the nominative social declaration. The aim is to remove administrative barriers that may discourage employers from hiring a recognised employee with a disability and from fulfilling their employment obligations. One of the strong measures is the introduction of a clause to revise the employment obligation rate. Set at 6 per cent of the total number of employees in an establishment, this rate is now a fairly accurate reflection of the share of disabled workers in the labour force, which is 6.6 per cent. With a review of this rate every five years, the aim is to create a positive dynamic for the employment of people with disabilities. However, in the original proposed wording, this revision clause may have raised concerns that the rate would be levelled down and uncertainty as to the criteria that would be used to set it. The work of the Social Affairs Committee has made it possible to secure the review procedure and to make it a positive incentive for employers to hire disabled workers. First, the rate of 6% was set as a minimum rate of the employment obligation, which the re-visit clause will not be able to call into question unless it is increased. Next, the review criteria were clarified and clarified. Finally, the opinion of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities will be sought in the context of the review: involving persons with disabilities in the implementation of policies affecting them provides an additional guarantee. Our main objective is to encourage the direct employment of persons with disabilities, whose rate is now 3.4 per cent in private sector enterprises, and above all to facilitate their retention in employment. That is why I will defend an amendment to facilitate the use of telework for employees recognised as disabled. While the right to telework has been enshrined in the ordinances reforming the Labour Code, it is now a matter of going further and making it an effective right for disabled workers in order to improve their working conditions and adapt to their constraints. I shall now refer to the issue of suitable enterprises, the second of the two main measures under Title III in favour of the employment of persons with disabilities. As consultation is under way, particularly on the way in which they are financed, the bill includes only a part of the measures aimed at valuing suitable enterprises. Under ordinary law, they have the specific task of recruiting at least 80% of disabled workers and of providing them with suitable conditions by means of specific and individualised support. The bill strengthens the framework for the intervention of suitable enterprises by reaffirming their economic and social vocation and their participation in an inclusive economic environment. The challenge is to better adapt the accompaniment for disabled workers to enable them to prepare for their exit from the company adapted to so-called "classic" companies. However, the preparation of this exit is not yet fully operational due to the lack of a bridge logic. The fluidity of the paths and arrivals between protected and ordinary sectors nevertheless contributes to the freedom to choose one's professional future. Let us not neglect this dimension, especially in situations where an appropriate return to work would be necessary: it must then be possible to do so without prejudice and under the best conditions. Title III also includes a component on secondment and the fight against illegal labour. The aim is to rebalance and re-adjust the administrative obligations imposed on foreign employers detaching employees in France. Recent legislative reforms have led to the strengthening of the legislative framework for secondment, in order to fight more effectively and, above all, harshly against embezzlement and fraud in seconded work. The result is an undifferentiated legal framework of general application, sometimes not even adapted to the realities of the field and to the particularities of certain detachments. The bill therefore provides welcome adjustments and relaxations for some cases of well-targeted and unfrauded seconded work. At the same time, various measures are proposed to strengthen the system of sanctions against detachment fraud with the raising of the ceilings for administrative fines and the creation of a new case of application of the penalty of suspension of secondment. In the same vein, the committee adopted an amendment aimed at better defining the status of posted employees in order to avoid their diversion. Finally, following the review of the national plan to combat illegal labour, which was submitted in February, the mechanism for combating illegal labour was consolidated. In particular, I stress the strengthening and modernisation of the investigative powers of the labour inspectorate to target new forms of illegal labour. Another aspect of Title III, which is dear to me, is that of equal pay for women and men. The effective guarantee of rights is thus an unprecedented translation in terms of professional equality. Unfortunately, the finding is that an unexplained wage gap of almost 10% persists between women and men with work of equal value: France maintains a dismaying 129th place in the ranking of equal pay worldwide. The time for declarations of principles and legal adjustments to the margin has passed: occupational equality must no longer be a theoretical horizon, to the detriment of women's career progression and social inclusion. Finally, then, at the time of the action, with the transition from an obligation of means to an obligation of result, forty-five years after the inclusion of this principle in the law. As of 1 January, companies with at least 250 employees will have to incorporate an indicator of the measurement of pay gaps and will have three years to correct them, with a pay catch-up envelope, under penalty. Companies with more than 50 employees will join them from 1 January 2020. I would like to welcome the decisive action taken by the Minister to defend this cause in the bill, as well as the involvement of the whole Committee on Social Affairs, which has resulted in the adoption of twelve amendments on this subject. However, we are only at the beginning of the road. We cannot limit ourselves to an attitude of spectator in the deployment of the new tool. It seems essential to me, in this respect, to share with you a reality and an ambition. The reality is that it would be illusory to believe that a single indicator is a sufficient tool. On the contrary, it can mask more substantial disparities and inequalities, whether one thinks of access to positions of responsibility or of the rate of wage and occupational growth. The risk of confinement in a uniform and isolated measuring tool should therefore be avoided. The ambition, then, lies in the need to define without delay new caps in terms of professional equality. I am thinking, for example, of the goal set by the Copé-Zimmermann Act for the composition of boards of directors or supervisory boards by at least 40% of women:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u27	Why not 50?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u28	... why, indeed, do not go beyond this by acquiescing from now on the principle of full parity? It is up to us to reflect on this and to create the conditions for strict professional equality, in order to realize without further delay the republican promise of real equality. This promise could also be fulfilled by rethinking the conditions of birth, paternity or maternity leave. Many amendments have been tabled to this effect. I am fully in favour of this on the merits, as they tend to promote real equality and the promotion of personal choices within a career path. However, addressing this discussion now seems premature to me, when there should be a consultation in the fall and a report is expected on the subject. Strong measures are also proposed on the ground to combat sexual violence and gender-based violence. The unbearable realities we face involve defining more effective tools, at the service of both employees and companies in general. In addition to the obligation to communicate provided for in the bill, our work has also made it possible to complete the scheme by creating focal points for combating sexual harassment within the human resources services and the social and economic committee. The role of the branches, moreover, has also been completed since the issue of combating and preventing sexual harassment is included in their compulsory negotiations. But it seems essential to go beyond sexual harassment alone to cover equally unacceptable situations of moral harassment. I understand that the consultation that took place after the Weinstein case or the MeToo movement dealt exclusively with cases of sexual violence and harassment, but I will support amendments that extend and reinforce the obligation to provide information on remedies and competent services beyond this type of harassment, in order to cover equally unbearable and harmful cases of moral harassment. Finally, three articles relating to the State civil service, the territorial civil service and the hospital civil service facilitate diversified careers within the administration, including passages of a few years in other sectors. I welcome it as much in the name of the freedom to choose one's professional future – which presupposes that one takes into account, both in the public and in the private sector, the fact that a journey is enriched by experience – as well as in the name of equality. Maintaining promotion rights will help to reduce women's and men's drop-outs in pay and careers, when women make life choices that put their progression to seniority or merit on hold. In particular, the measure will be very favourable to those who have to leave their home administration to follow their spouse for professional reasons. I would, of course, like such a measure to continue with other concrete proposals for equality in public administrations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The debates that will bring us together this week will therefore be of decisive importance in giving practical effect to the right of everyone, without distinction of any kind, to have access to employment and to make work a real factor of emancipation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u29	Sylvie Charière, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the technological boom, the digital and robotic revolutions, the birth of a green economy are causing a rapid change in trades: 50% of the jobs to be carried out in 2030 do not yet exist. There is therefore a need for everyone to be able to learn throughout life and, through solid initial training, to have the resources to adapt. But have we put in place all the mechanisms that allow every citizen to live all these changes at best? I don't think so. How can we tolerate that 1.3 million of our young people are not in school, university, apprenticeship or employment? How can we support that every year, 100,000 young people leave the school or university system without a diploma? How can we accept the fact that, at the same level of diploma, age and career path, it is more difficult to get a job when you live in a priority area of city politics? How can we explain that many companies are struggling to find young people and, conversely, that many young people are giving up learning because they have not found a place to work? Similarly, why maintain training without real opportunities? It is now very complex to bring together the channels that attract young people and those that actually promote integration. As politicians, we cannot be satisfied with the current situation, with this system, which fails neither to stem the mass unemployment of young people, nor to protect the most vulnerable from the lack of skills or their obsolescence – especially as economic growth starts again. We cannot leave young people and the least qualified on the sidelines of this dynamic. Our duty is therefore to ensure that all our young people acquire a base of adaptability skills; bring the business world closer to school, so that practice can nourish, illustrate, enrich the theory, and so that diplomas are more legible and "integrant"; to ensure that all the structures which welcome a young person accompany him at best in the construction of his personal and professional project, so that he can find a way, his way, but that he also has a right to error. It was important to address all of these issues: this is the ambition of this bill. This should, in particular, allow, through the creation of a preparation for learning – which can be organised in CFAs but also in other bodies, such as second chance schools – to accompany young people in order to make the conditions for their entry into learning optimal; to add more mediation between the two parties in the event of a breach of contract; within the framework of the orientation, to give the regions full responsibility for informing about trades and training, a task which they already assumed in part on the basis of their knowledge of the local economic fabric; through the transparency of data on, in particular, the integration rates of the fields and the attainment of diplomas, to inform families about the quality of the training offered; to set up a public institution, France compétences, which will in particular have to make recommendations on the quality of training carried out with regard to their results in terms of access to employment and qualification. The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has dealt with seven articles, the main topics of which are guidance, learning and professional certification. As a result of intense debate, we have helped to enrich the text in a number of ways. Thus, in terms of guidance, which includes information and support for young people and their families, we wanted to ensure that the region was well coordinated with the actors in the educational world, including, among others, psychologists of national education and teachers, volunteers and trained to do so. Similarly, we wanted to ensure, through the definition of indicators, that apprenticeship training centres, as well as vocational lycées, will do their utmost to integrate young dropouts, including those from disadvantaged neighbourhoods, to prevent them from breaking their contracts and to accompany them if they wish to reorient themselves or continue their studies. We also wanted to complete the missions of the CFAs by asking them to inform the apprentices of their rights and duties and to better accompany them in their training course. Such a secure course seemed essential to us, both to reassure families and teachers and to make this route more attractive. We have also enriched the text by ensuring that contracts for regional training and career guidance development plans, the CPRDFOPs, include a section on persons with disabilities; by calling on the regions, within the framework of the CPRDFOP, to encourage the signing of agreements between vocational lycées and apprenticeship training centres, in order to facilitate the establishment of bridges between these two routes and, through the pooling of technical platforms, to bring about the convergence of initial full-time training and alternance training; Finally, by diversifying the routes of access to vocational courses: in addition to pre-learning, already provided for in the original text, we have in fact acquired the creation of a "pre-trades" in the third class. The work of the Committee on Social Affairs has also enriched this text, but we need to go even further. With regard to human factors, many actors contribute to the integration of young people, whether they are students, high school students or academics. Everyone has its importance, but the biggest difficulty, in our view, is to coordinate their actions – whether it be the educational world, the community world, the economic world or the institutional world – and above all to value and develop alternation. In the educational world, first of all, it would be important that, during the third-stage orientation, teachers do not live as a failure the departure of a young person towards the vocational path; the head of the school is not assessed on the basis of the rate of transition to the second general level, but rather on the question of whether the student, whatever the route chosen, is continuing his training, the important thing being that he has been able, through adequate support, to define his project well. It will also be necessary for the regions to work with the educational world to propose, whatever the territory, the most relevant information measures possible. Moreover, in view of the announced reform of the vocational high school and the ministerial desire to develop apprenticeships within these institutions, the possibility for every high school student to leave for at least one year during his or her schooling seems to us to be a very promising path. Similarly, in order to solve mobility difficulties, it is important to make visible and develop the accommodation offer, in particular through the creation of real trades campuses. Secondly, as regards the community sector, it is important to preserve its wealth and to accompany it because, through its various actions towards the educational world, young dropouts or young people from disadvantaged neighbourhoods, it helps to combat school failure. Moreover, in the professional world, the branches will have a great responsibility: they will have to be able, thanks to their observatories, to carry out a prospective analysis on the immediate and future employment and on the definition of the skills needs of companies – and therefore on the co-development of qualifications and diplomas. As a result, training centres for apprentices as well as vocational lycées will have to be able to evolve their training offer. Companies, for their part, will have to mobilize to offer more alternance proposals and to accept that the learning teachers will form and be valued. The choice by the company of the master of learning is crucial, because much more than being a good professional, he must demonstrate pedagogical and human qualities. In order to facilitate the adaptation of young people to the world of business and work, we therefore believe that it is necessary for the branches to incorporate these criteria when defining the certification of the master of learning. Finally, with regard to the institutional world, the State must, in the interests of fairness and greater visibility of training offers, maintain a national information offer, but also develop a tool – a national platform, for example – to facilitate matchmaking, sourcing of young people and businesses – which will also encourage the creation of CFA. In the interests of efficiency, economy and equity, it should also help regions to articulate the orientation of young people with schools. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Based on the comparison with Germany, less faced with the heavy problem of massive youth unemployment, in particular because apprenticeship is an integral part of initial training and because the branches are heavily mobilized, many apprenticeship reforms have followed, without really changing the number of apprentices. The purpose of this bill is therefore to combat liability cards. In addition, by better informing and supporting young people, by ensuring the coherence and efficiency of the entire system, it must change attitudes. This reform aims to make the training offer much more responsive, dynamic and above all to give new opportunities to our young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u31	Mrs Graziella Melchior, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs in substance and for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the quality of the exchanges that I have had with the rapporteurs on Title I, my colleagues Catherine Fabre and Sylvie Charière. The Economic Affairs Committee, which was seized for its opinion, concentrated its work on seven important articles of the draft law on freedom to choose one's professional future. These are Articles 7, 8, 9 and 12, which deal with the apprenticeship contract and public aid granted to employers of apprentices, and Articles 17 to 19, which create a new financing channel for vocational training and alternance. What's going on today? The entrepreneurs I meet tell me that they have markets, that they feel economic recovery but that they face recruitment problems. At the same time, employees are undergoing organisational and technological changes to which they are not always prepared. In the face of this dual challenge of recruitment and adaptation, it is time to offer employers a relaxation and simplification of measures relating to apprenticeship and vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u33	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u34	First of all, I would like to express my deep satisfaction with the articles submitted to the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and, more broadly, with the philosophy behind the bill as a whole. "This text goes in the right direction": that is what emerged, with a few reservations, from all the hearings that I was given to conduct. The bill before us today is a pragmatic piece of legislation that addresses one of the greatest social and economic challenges of the 21st century, the rapid evolution of skills required in a constantly changing labour market. In its work, the Committee on Economic Affairs has welcomed the lack of dogmatism that characterizes this text, which I would like to echo today. The provisions that I have had to study demonstrate the Government's willingness to take into account the realities of business life and the demands of all actors – employers, training centres, workers, young people – involved in vocational training and alternation. First of all, I must mention the flexibilities provided by Articles 7 to 9 to the apprenticeship contract. In terms of learning, the paradox is remarkable: why, in a country where the integration of young people into the labour market is particularly difficult, is the use of learning so weak? However, we know that this is a path of excellence, since 70% of young people who have reached the end of their contract get a job within six months of the end of their contract, 60% of them in CDI. The facts are stubborn: despite all the efforts of the public authorities, the target of 500,000 apprentices in France in 2017 has not been achieved. The problem is not only quantitative: the report submitted by Sylvie Brunet highlights a stagnation in the number of apprenticeship contracts since 2012. This stagnation, in fact, masked a decrease in the number of contracts concluded by young people preparing diplomas equivalent to levels IV and V. It is precisely for these young people that the effect of apprenticeship plays a full part in vocational integration. How can we explain this situation? The specificities of the apprenticeship contract, the rigidities and burdens it induces, its complexity and that of the aids attached to it discourage potential employers and cause concern to young people and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u35	Ah! We have to "release the energies," right? You treat children as badly as adults!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u36	Bringing this contract closer to the common law was therefore a necessity, and I welcome the improvements made by Articles 7, 8 and 9 in this area. The extension of the age limit to 29 years is an excellent measure which shows that we have learned from the experiment permitted by article 77 of the Labour Act of 8 August 2016. The Committee on Economic Affairs would have hoped that this experiment could be extended beyond 29 years for the long-term unemployed, and would continue to pay attention to alternative measures concerning this public. The abolition of the obligation to register the contract, the adaptation of the hours and hours of work of apprentices to the pace of the enterprise and the facilitation of the unilateral breach of the contract, at the initiative of both the employer and the young person, seems particularly welcome. Among the provisions, that which allows young people to enter apprenticeship throughout the year was very much expected of companies. Another measure is the ambitious simplification of aid to apprentice employers, which Article 12 proposes to merge into a single aid targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises and the first levels of qualifications. However, I must express a slight concern at this stage: the current wording of Article 12 seems to lead to the abolition of the premium for employers of apprentices with disabilities to "compensate for additional expenses or loss of earnings". It was valued in 2018 at 1 million euros. If the efficiency of this premium is called into question by the Government, I trust that it will be compensated by the creation or upgrading of other more incentive mechanisms. Articles 17-19, which thoroughly reorganize the financing of vocational training and alternance, constitute the centre of gravity of the "Copernician revolution" desired by the Government. It is a matter of moving from a system essentially administered by the State and the regions to a system in which branches and enterprises finally play the leading role. I welcome this paradigm shift, which called for real political courage. The international comparison confirms its relevance: in countries, such as Germany, where vocational training and apprenticeship work well, it is the branches that control the system and not the public authorities. However, the regions are not forgotten. They will be represented in France and will retain a major role in financing and investment guidance for some CFAs, particularly in rural areas. The new role entrusted to the current recognised joint collecting bodies, article 19 of which makes "competent operators" – OPCOMS – is at the heart of this new balance. With no responsibility for legal collection, OPCOMS will be able to devote itself fully to their tasks in support of branches and enterprises. Now responsible for financing alternance as a whole, they will be the actors in the transition from financing apprenticeship training centres based on a subsidy logic paid by the regions to a logic of financing the contract, at the single cost defined by the branches. Such a transformation will require special vigilance at the time of the transition between these two modes of financing so as not to jeopardise the continuation of contracts signed before the reform is implemented. As for funding, it seems to me that the wording of Article 17 adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs is a slight step backwards compared to the very detailed simplification approach advocated by the original bill. Thus, the maintenance of the apprenticeship tax in its current configuration – which becomes a branch of the single contribution – rather than the pure and simple merger of apprenticeship taxes and the obligatory contribution to continuing vocational training, seems to me an element of complexity in relation to the initial ambition of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u37	It's a retropedaling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u38	I also regret that the economic integration sector has not been able to find its place in this bill. However, these slight reservations must not obscure the very positive nature of my assessment, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of an ambitious text aimed at arming our fellow citizens in the face of the changes that affect the labour market. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Beyond this House, I would like to address the employers and in particular those of TPEs and SMEs. The use of apprenticeship and vocational training will be easier and better suited to your needs. This bill provides you with a simpler, more transparent and more incentive funding and assistance system. Take this chance that is offered to you! Invest in alternation and training! Tomorrow's skills are being acquired today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u39	Mr Thierry Michels, on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, as authorized by the Rules of Procedure of this House, the Committee on European Affairs has taken up the bill on freedom to choose its professional future. I am pleased to note that two aspects of this text are particularly emblematic of the project to recast Europe initiated by the President of the Republic and implemented by the Government and the parliamentary majority. On the one hand, the aim is to free up energy by promoting the European mobility of apprentices and holders of a professionalisation contract and, on the other hand, to protect the interests of our companies by pragmatic provisions concerning secondment work. Promoting European mobility for all: we cannot be satisfied with the blatant imbalance in the prospects offered to our young people. Indeed, since its inception, 615000 students have benefited from the Erasmus programme, compared with only 26000 apprentices for Erasmus Pro for much shorter periods – only a few weeks. Taking into account the recommendations of the Arthuis report, the bill presents a significant step forward: it supplements the "status of mobile apprentices", which was included in the January Act, and extends it to professionalization contracts. Apprenticeship training centres will be particularly interested in promoting international mobility by providing dedicated reference points for this mission. The draft law also allows for the partial performance of the contract abroad, the suspension of certain obligations of the employer during the period of mobility or the guarantee of social security coverage for the employee. Young apprentices want this mobility, both for their personal development and for their career path!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u42	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u43	What is more positive for Europe than to have young French who leave our country ambassadors and return ambassadors of the country that welcomed them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u44	[[Smile]] Like Meyer Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u45	... thus concretizing a European citizenship? I know that we can trust all the actors, and in particular our young people, to seize the new opportunities offered by the law. To promote this outgoing mobility of our apprentices, it will also be necessary to develop the conditions for the reception of apprentices and trainees from other countries. We have in France channels of excellence to promote: the art de vivre à la française, the scientific and industrial fields as digital innovation in the health sector to name but one. Let us encourage our European partners to put in place provisions similar to ours, with the ultimate aim of building a European statute for apprentices and thus helping to strengthen the excellence of the vocational and apprenticeship courses we call for! With regard to the posting of workers, the draft law is in full conformity with the commitments of the President of the Republic and the work carried out by France at European level with regard to the revision of the directive on posted workers: promoting the provision of legitimate services and protecting against unfair competition. We therefore welcome the European Parliament's vote of 29 May. The provisions of the bill are structured around two objectives: on the one hand, to improve the conditions of secondment by reducing administrative constraints in certain specific cases, on the other hand, to strengthen sanctions in case of fraud. The easing of administrative burdens concerns border areas as well as companies operating for short periods of time or carrying out activities that are not susceptible to fraud – for example, business trips or festivals. It also includes the posting of workers from undertakings operating on their own account. With regard to the deepening of sanctions, the text provides in particular for an increase in administrative fines in the event of fraud at the "hard core" or failure to comply with reporting obligations. It creates a new case of hidden work infringement for undertakings established de facto in France but which would nevertheless rely on the Posting of Workers Directive. Companies guilty of fraudulent activity will be designated. The text also strengthens the capacity of the administration and extends the powers of the labour inspectorate. The aim of this text is to return to the spirit of the posting of workers. France is not against detached work. Let's remember, our country is with Germany and Poland one of the main ones that detach workers! We will therefore have to be particularly vigilant about the bilateral negotiations which will concern the border areas. The agreements must be balanced and safeguard our national interests. On the other hand, the easing of formalities for certain categories of posting must make it possible to redeploy the means of labour inspection towards the fight against fraud in the posting of workers, a fight which must be determined, particularly in those sectors where, as we know, fraud is unfortunately numerous: building, transport and agriculture. Beyond these pragmatic provisions on seconded work, we must develop a vision and action in favour of a European social base, which alone is capable of achieving harmonious economic and social development. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has everything to energize Europeans convinced that our majority embodies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u46	I call on Mrs. Justine Benin, on behalf of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of vocational training introduced by the Government through this bill for the freedom to choose its professional future has aroused a strong and legitimate expectation in our ultramarine territories. And for good reason! The goal of social inclusion and personal emancipation highlighted by this bill is in our overseas environment much more than a determinant of technical choices: it is a collective aspiration linked to the consciousness of a common destiny. This was enough to form the basis for the delegation's intervention in the overseas countries, which we have the responsibility to represent with my colleagues Josette Manin and Ericka Bareigts, and whose first mission is to introduce into the debates and the projects on the agenda analyses and proposals in accordance with the interests of our territories. In order to do this, we have conducted numerous hearings of training actors, here or in our respective territories. I would like to pay tribute to my colleague Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe, with whom we conducted a real marathon in Guadeloupe to give the floor and gather the observations of all the local players in training: training organisations, OPCA – agreed joint collecting body –, CFA, trade unions, employers' organizations, Pôle emploi, direction des entreprises, de la concurrence, de la consommation, du travail et de l'emploi – DIECCTE – all have been consulted on this bill. So, in order to properly align the terms of our work, it is not unnecessary to recall certain social and economic realities that affect our overseas territories. The dropout rate is of particular concern. The proportion of the population over 15 years of age who are not in school and who do not have a diploma or only the diploma of colleagues is 50% in the overseas countries, compared with 32% in France. With regard to illiteracy, the figures collected during the Defence and Citizenship Day 2016 show that the rate of young people with reading difficulties is much higher in the overseas countries: 30% in Guadeloupe, Martinique and La Réunion, 48% in Guyana and up to 73% in Mayotte. It is also important to remember that the unemployment rate of young people aged 15 to 24 is significantly higher than in Hexagon, approaching or even exceeding half the age group. It is 55 per cent in Guadeloupe, 52 per cent in Réunion, 46 per cent in Mayotte and French Guiana. Thus a vicious circle is created: the employment situation makes our populations particularly sensitive to economic hazards while increasing the difficulties experienced in the development of professional careers. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, the major challenge of vocational training for overseas workers clearly calls for an in-depth examination and the search for appropriate solutions. Thanks to the mobilization of Members of Parliament from overseas, to the support of our colleagues in the Hexagon, to you, the chairman of the committee, to you, the minister, to the high quality of listening and openness that you have shown, a decisive step has been taken in favour of the development of the ultramarine young people. On the occasion of the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, two amendments resulting from the work of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories were adopted unanimously. They plan to experiment with the possibility for a young person to perform for a year his or her apprenticeship or professionalization contract abroad or in his or her regional environment. For our young people, this is a real opportunity to discover their regional basins and to acquire skills, both personal and professional. This joint success increases parliamentary work and allows, step by step, the recognition of the specificities of our territories. In order to go further, Madam Minister, you made a proposal during the committee work which I wish to return to. If I accept that the use of orders is, in the current context and in order to achieve our objective, a pragmatic solution which we have approved on its principle, I must also point out that for a Member, this remedy is never annoyed or without risk. This concession – because that is what it is when a parliamentarian gives up his legislative power – must be accompanied by certain guarantees. Therefore, Madam, I appeal today to this responsibility which you have always been able to demonstrate, in your sense of dialogue and co-construction, so that I, as co-rapporteur for the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, may be involved in the drafting of these orders. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon also applauds]] Before this is discussed, new amendments resulting from the work of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories will be presented to you in order to continue and refine the necessary adaptation of this text to our realities and particularities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u48	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, alternate for Mr Pierre Cabaré, on behalf of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u49	Madam President, the Minister of Labour, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in November 2017, the President of the Republic made equality between women and men the main cause of the quinquennium. This strong announcement marks a willingness to break with a situation and practices that have lasted too long. Inequalities faced by women must be addressed in all areas. So, after strengthening our arsenal of efforts to combat sexual and gender-based violence, we are now looking at a bill that addresses professional inequalities, as well as training issues. The finding is alarming and the situation of women in the world of unfair work: in France, in 2018, women earn about 25% less than men and an inexplicable wage gap of about 10% persists between a woman and a man with an identical contract, diploma, experience and responsibilities. They occupied 80 per cent of part-time jobs, accounted for more than two thirds of the working poor, and faced a often gender-based and segregated work environment. More exposed to job insecurity, they also see their possibilities limited by a "glass ceiling" for access to positions of responsibility, with less favourable career paths. In view of this objective and the importance of the issues at stake, the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women wanted to be seized of the bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future. The work of the delegation, as well as that of the Committee on Social Affairs, has shown that there is now a shared will to put an end to these unacceptable situations. In this respect, I would like to welcome the Minister's unwavering commitment to equality between women and men. The report by our colleague Pierre Cabaré, prepared for the delegation, clearly shows that the issue of equality between women and men is in essence cross-cutting. Sections 61 and 62 of the bill are major advances that specifically target this issue, but beyond that, ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful to take it into consideration in all the mechanisms we are looking at. As such, I would like to highlight two specific issues: training and access to employment. Training, first of all. While the overall rate of women's access to vocational training – 43% – is close to that of men – 45% – in reality, the expectation of training hours per year is 20 hours for men, compared to only 12 hours for women. We must change that reality and eliminate inequalities between women and men in access to training. It is absolutely essential to prepare for the future and it must be done at an early age. Training is also an opportunity to better accompany the economic changes in our society. I am thinking in particular of the managerial jobs which, with the digital revolution under way, will evolve very strongly in the coming years. It is essential to anticipate these changes, especially for women managers. Access to employment, then. It is now important to make career paths more secure, while ensuring flexibility and adaptability to meet new economic challenges. The bill proposes a number of measures in this direction, and we must ensure that they take professional equality into account. For example, the bill provides for the extension of the benefit of a replacement income to certain voluntary resignations, in particular to ensure vocational retraining, as well as, in some cases, to self-employed persons. These measures are an opportunity to seize. However, their impact on women working as self-employed should be monitored – data about them are not available today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These two themes do not exhaust the subject in any way, but they show, if necessary, that the issue of equality must be taken into account in every legislative development. In the end, it seems to me that in order to achieve professional equality and even equality at short notice, we must first change attitudes. The minister mentioned this before the delegation: with this bill there is also a battle of opinions. I can count on your unanimous support in this respect, ladies and gentlemen. Together, with our convictions and values, we will win this battle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u50	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u51	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will of course not go back in detail to the provisions of a bill that was already relevant at the time of its tabling, which was expanded during the course of the committee review and which, I am sure, will be enriched in our discussions in the House. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the conditions for its consideration by the committee. This bill was a long-standing bill. In an unprecedented way, our commission has chosen to set up a working group, composed of one representative from each political group, several months before its tabling, to enable everyone to become familiar with the technical terms and political issues of the bill. I would like to thank Catherine Fabre for having animated him and I give in to the ease of thinking that the quality of our debates in committee stems in part from this upstream preparation. This preparation would have had only a relative interest, if we had not had sufficient information on the content of the bill. I thank the minister, Muriel Pénicaud, for having made herself available in April to present us with the main directions, for having naturally returned to present the text itself and for having responded to my call for an early transmission of it, since we had the draft bill available three weeks before it was officially tabled. Finally, I would point out that our committee will have innovated, both in the presentation of the report, with the desire to propose a synthesis of the text and easily accessible debates, and in the conditions under which it is made available. For the first time, all interested persons will have disposed, ten days before the publication of the report, of its main elements and of all those brought to the attention of the social affairs commissioners. In short, the method is exemplary and, once again, I can only plead for its systematization on major texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u52	How modest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u54	I was talking about the government! What about the text adopted by the committee? For the first time since the beginning of the legislature, we have been able to adopt a text that includes amendments proposed by all groups. The 300 or so amendments adopted out of the 1215 discussed attest to a genuine mutual listening of the groups and rapporteurs. I thank them all for that. At the end of forty-two hours of debate, including more than thirty-two hours devoted to the discussion of the articles, we have a really rich text. Since I have very little time to discuss the content of this reform, allow me to look back quickly at the four essential features of this reform. She's indispensable. Indeed, how can we admit that, despite tens of billions of euros spent each year, we continue to have not only so many unemployed people, but also so many companies and sectors that struggle to find trained employees? In front of this huge waste, we had to act! It is fair, whether it is the rebalancing of the means of training to the most vulnerable, rather than to the managers or the most qualified, or the creation of an allowance for the benefit of the self-employed. She's pragmatic. Our opposition colleagues have, in turn, and sometimes simultaneously, criticized a statising and centralizing text or, on the contrary, a liberal text that would make the game of the market look good. I deeply believe that our bill seeks first and foremost to adapt, as closely as possible, to the needs and difficulties of our citizens and businesses. Finally, it is proactive, like the proposed provisions on equal pay or employment of persons with disabilities. Our predecessors have set targets for decades. It is time to do so, even if we need to push ahead, on all the issues, processes and interlocutors that have been established. Ladies and gentlemen, by putting the individual at the heart of the training system, this bill is certainly a powerful vehicle for social mobility and emancipation. Today we are betting on competence and investment in human capital, in order to enable everyone to find their place in society, according to their talent and potential. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Gary Becker, a great theorist of human capital, explained it with simplicity in the last years of his life: "The most important form of capital is people. People. Not just what they are by birth, but what the government or parents do to them, or what they do to themselves, what is called "investing in people." »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u55	Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women has wished to take up the bill on freedom to choose its professional future, as the subject of professional equality is a key element in the construction of a new societal paradigm. Let us remember: it is through the work that each and every one is able to overcome his condition and any form of determinism, that each one regains or meets his freedom. That is why women's access to work is essential to support their legitimate desire for autonomy. As Simone de Beauvoir wrote, it is work that can only guarantee women concrete freedom. While the feminization of employment has been a structural feature of the labour market for fifty years, access to the labour market is not sufficient. Today, one in two employees is a woman and 84 per cent of women aged 25 to 50 are employed, compared with 40 per cent in the 1950s. And since 1980, more than 3 million more women have been in office, compared to 200,000 men. Let us ask the question: is a woman, in France, in 2018, worth a quarter less than a man? The answer we are making on all of our benches is, it seems to me, negative. And everyone recognizes that women must be able to work under the same conditions as men and with the same treatments. "Work cannot be a law without being a right," wrote Victor Hugo. That is why, for the past 45 years, political intentions have multiplied: the inclusion of equal pay in the Labour Code in 1972; the Roudy Act, 1983, against discrimination in hiring; the Genisson Act, 2001 which introduced professional equality in collective bargaining; The Copé-Zimmerman Act, which provides for better representation of women on the boards of directors of companies; The 2008 constitutional review, which enshrines, in article 1 of the Constitution, "equal access for women and men to professional and social responsibilities". These intentions, although laudable, have not solved the problem and we are still making the same observation today: wage discrimination has been banned, but it persists and is part of the continuum of income differences between women and men. The pay gap of 24 per cent between women and men results in a 40 per cent difference in retirement pensions. In addition, 62% of unskilled jobs are held by women and 97% of CEOs are men. Wage inequality and occupational discrimination are therefore an undeniable and measurable fact, which we must face up to. They are also humiliating, discouraging, unbearable, anachronistic and counterproductive to women of today and tomorrow. Professional equality is a matter of the principles that must organize our society, but also of common economic sense. According to the OECD, the convergence of women's and men's participation rates over the next 20 years would lead to an increase in world GDP of 12% and 9.4% for France. Thus, the bill that you are introducing to us, the minister, and which I salute, stands out against her predecessors. It is no longer a matter of proclaiming great principles, but of achieving concrete results.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u57	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u58	The aim is to make existing legislation effective and to impose the use of practical tools. This bill presents real progress in the fight against sexual and gender-based violence in the workplace, including the establishment of a focal point within the company. With regard to equal pay, the text imposes, inter alia, an obligation of result and transparency. He also announced a profound change in French wage mechanics. That being said, we must remain vigilant because "when ignorance dominates, it is the stereotypes that govern the minds," stresses historian Pierre Rosanvallon. In order to achieve real and effective pay equality, it is necessary for all of our society to trace and follow the paths of mix, parity and equality once and for all. In this regard, I would like to commend several government initiatives, in particular that of the Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, who, through the appointment in each school of an equality reference, will help to combat gender stereotypes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u59	Um!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Women must be able to access the jobs of the future and be at the heart of the professions that reinvent our societies. Allowing women to integrate the most structuring professions in our way of life is the best way to build the new paradigm called this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u61	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I move a motion of rejection before you, it is not that the subject under discussion is uninteresting or that it is ill-composed – it is the opposite – it is because wanting seven subjects as important as those in it to be contained in a single piece of legislation is, in our view, a challenge and, in a way, a waste. A skilled communicator has found a name that runs like a thread between pearls to make it a law. In our view, this cannot be one, if we really want to organize and deal with, with talent, the topics that are addressed in this document. Our group has worked very seriously. We have proposed ninety-eight amendments. The special conditions of the examination following the scheduled legislative time procedure mean that, no doubt, we will only defend fifty-four or fifty-five of them, but that is to say, if we have not dealt lightly with what is proposed here. My first duty is to present to you briefly what will then be developed through our amendments on these seven subjects. You want to organize the course of civil servants to facilitate their passage from the public to the private. For our part, we are hostile to it. We believe that public servants must first and foremost remain in public service and not seek to have an acquiescence in the private sector. In any case, we know very well that if civil servants are allowed to go to the private sector today, it is because we are preparing to bring the private sector among civil servants, under contract status, through the revision of the statute of the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u63	It's already done, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u64	As far as professional equality is concerned, it is always good to talk about it and nobody here will say that it is a waste of time. However, you will admit that we can be extraordinarily sceptical about occupational equality at work, since before the orders that you yourself defended, Madam Minister, it was mandatory to discuss them once a year in the company and that now, thanks to you, it is only once every three years. Therefore, we have considered this part of the text kindly, but without too much illusions. For example, the reference for the prevention of sexual harassment is provided for in companies only with 250 employees. However, if the case is worth hearing from 250 employees, it must be heard in other companies as well. This threshold therefore seems to us to be an arrangement. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Exclaims and laughter]] The chapter on seconded work will allow us to make detailed proposals. If you listen to propaganda,... Yes, I say "propaganda," because that's what it's called when you try to pass on an idea that doesn't match the facts. In fact, as a personal matter, I have no contempt for propaganda. It's better than talking about "communication" to make it look like something else. There is no truth – you know this since the failure of the Fake news bill. In politics, we try to convince; So it's propaganda. With regard to secondment work, it is not true that we have achieved a great victory, since social contributions continue to be paid in the country of origin. As a result, seconded work continues to pose the same threat to social security in our country. In some respects, what has been decided at European level is even a step backwards – we will explain why. At the same time, one should end up getting used to the idea that it was not the Bolkestein directive that invented the fact that workers from one country went to work in another; Before the 1996 directive, there were already people who were going to work in one country or another, but it was done on other bases, that is, they paid their social contributions at the place where they arrived, and they could not be hired on conditions other than local people. What the directive invented was that one could be paid less, or otherwise paid, or compensated in one way or another. Before the directive, none of this existed – so much so that we spent our time correcting the consequences of a text that is, we say from the beginning, evil. I come to the chapter on disability at work. On this subject, the situation has become extremely tense. All associations in the sector stand against the downward revision of the housing accessibility target, which has increased from 100% to 10%. No one understood anything about this decision. For my part, I understood not only that it could be traumatic for those who had learned it, but above all that it was a terrible mistake with regard to the revival of economic activity. The target of a 100% accessibility rate was a budget of almost EUR 10 billion. These 10 billion could not have been relocated, because inclined planes, ramps, elevators and other means of access cannot be manufactured in Hong Kong or Shanghai – assuming that we continue to produce outside, I will come back to that. Those who have committed such a decision can hardly be believed when they claim that they will improve the situation. You will have tried – I will not lend you bad intentions, it is not my subject – but it does not meet the needs. The law is the law and it must be enforced, one point that is all. But it is not respected. Those who do not respect it must therefore be punished. The more hard they are in their wanderings, the more severe they must be punished. Penalties must be increased, so that they do not respect the law and that they know it in advance. The best incentive to virtue is to punish vice. Unemployment insurance is otherwise a more structuring subject for the representative of this continuation of the labour movement that I am, by my tradition, my age and the responsibilities that I have exercised. Unemployment insurance is something that came from the workers' movement. At all times, employers shed heavy tears on this initiative, which was going to ruin it, which was going to destroy the economy and the rest, before it became part of Social Security. Unemployment insurance is first and foremost insurance. However, you have decided, in the last finance law, to transfer it to the general social contribution, the CSG. You come back to the subject a second time. Why not? You can do it a third, and even as much as you want, it won't take away anything from your starting point, which is aberrant, and even reprehensible. All these inventions of the workers' movement were managed by the workers themselves before it was decided, for easily understandable reasons, to share their management with the employers and with the State and, from now on, to entrust it entirely to the State, at the cost of an aberration, since the CSG is paid by everyone, including pensioners. In the past, what was covered by insurance was paid by those who took care of it. It made sense: I make sure I'm not unemployed when I'm at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u65	What if we turn the page?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u66	But when I'm retired, what reason would I have to ensure against unemployment, since I'm not likely to work again? The aberration is here. Next to that, there are some horrors in this chapter that we will fight as much as we can. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] So, what is this logbook? Who could have had such an idea? Here is the unemployed worker with a small notebook, like a child who goes to school, and we will check in his notebook whether he did his job well, whether he phoned well, whether he answered the e-mails correctly – which he can no longer receive, since he no longer has a subscription – and the phone calls he didn't hear because he was doing something else. A logbook! In some countries there was a workers' booklet: the worker had to say where he was, what he was doing, how much he was paid, etc. In all the countries where this booklet existed, people felt it as a humiliation. I ask that we hear that. Why do we want to control? Why do we want to watch? Isn't it enough to be in this situation already?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u67	It's to help them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u68	[[Same movements]] But what is this kind of ill-placed compassion? Finally, you will do as you wish, as usual, but I want to tell you that this provision does not gain our support. You're indignant at the fact that I see her so badly, but I guarantee you that I'm not the only one. Besides, I am not unemployed, I am in this gallery, but I guarantee you that people are tired of being constantly monitored and controlled, as if they were criminals. Social fraud and tax fraud represent 4000 times the amount of possible unemployment insurance fraud and no one can ignore that more than half of the unemployed are not compensated. All this already weighs heavily on their shoulders and seems quite offensive to them, but the worst is the idea that if they refuse two or three "reasonable job offers", vlan! No more indemnities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u70	It is therefore not just the definition of these reasonable offers. This is being discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u71	Indeed: this is being debated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u72	This has led to lengthy and difficult discussions between trade unions and employers' organisations. That is, if the subject was slippery. Well, what will the rule be? There won't be any! This will be discussed willingly with the people who work in Pôle Emploi. But who asked for something like that? Are these the people from Pôle Emploi? Do you realize the responsibility that this represents?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u73	Yeah!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u74	As a Pôle Emploi officer, you have 400 files to deal with – you know by starting the day that at the end of this day, you will not have been able to finish your job. It's already hard, psychologically. In addition, you will have to say in front of someone, who may be your elder, who may have more professional experience than you: "This offer, I, decide that it is reasonable. And don't talk to me like that, because otherwise I'll find you another one that'll be even worse! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u75	[[Laughs]] Why are you pointing at me, Mr. Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u76	[[Smile]] If I point my finger at my comrade Lecoq, it is so that no one among you will feel embarrassed; the movement helps me to accompany the thought. It's something awful that this responsibility one gives to one person towards another! The whole republican logic is, on the contrary, to free the person from submission to another. What has always been challenged by the labour movement in the employment contract is precisely that it was a subordination relationship. Now, that's worse; It is a person and only one who will decide what is reasonable or not for you: how many kilometers you must be able to go to work, how many you must accept to be paid, etc. No, it's not a good idea at all to give someone extraordinary power over another person. We want rules, and they are the same everywhere, for everyone, in all circumstances. All human beings may be reasonable in the same way; There is no need to invent specific and individualized rules, putting at the mercy of a single person. I now turn to the two subjects which are certainly the most important for the future of the country and which deserve the most in-depth discussions between us – not that the subjects I have just mentioned are of no importance, but they are more ordinarily dealt with in the House than are the questions of vocational training and apprenticeship. It is said that this concerns one third of our youth, but if we group together the young people who are in the technological fields, those who are in the vocational fields and those who are in apprenticeship, well, that represents half of the country's youth! Half of the country's young people fall under the so-called "professional" sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u77	Like in Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u78	It is therefore a matter of particular importance. As we both have our theses on this issue, it causes a lot of discussion between us. I will mention a few of them, but I believe that if this is of such interest to us, it is because we are aware that something essential is being done here. Let's start with collective representations. For my part, I am still annoyed to hear that vocational education should be "revalued". This expression has always exasperated me. Why "revalue"? Vocational education is highly valued. However, depending on the social balcony you find yourself in, you see things differently. It would not be anyone's idea to say that the teaching of medicine or architecture needs to be improved, because, for everyone, these are rather prestigious activities, although they are professional teachings. In other words, the possible depreciative or compassionate view applies only to one part of vocational education. For, in truth, all teaching contributes to professionalization, in one way or another. I will be very happy to demonstrate this, because, more than once, I have heard those who welcome, in their company, the young employees they need to declare: "Listen, okay, but don't you have anything else to teach them? We, we need this or that. In other words, they considered the general teachings to be super-fetatory. But not only are these teachings not – in that they contribute to the intelligence of the profession itself – but, above all, they expand the ability to learn and produce. I remember a BEP class that, in Reunion, had 80% absenteeism. The teachers had the magnificent idea of making a PPCP – a multidisciplinary, professional project – in which young people were trained in giant metal sculptures. Apparently, there is no connection with the teaching provided, i.e. the metalwork. But, to make a giant metal sculpture, you must first know how to draw; and to do so, you must have some ideas on the subject. These young people were taken to several exhibitions to show them sculptures of this kind. To achieve them, we must also know the welding, the painting, the physics – for the work to stand – and so on. Therefore, it is always necessary to oppose the idea that general education is contradictory to the process of professionalisation: it is the opposite! Similarly, I remember saying that civic, legal and social education courses were not the most urgent. Well, yes! What is better, for example, in the building trades: the team leader who shouts "because there is wind" or the one who explains himself, makes his orders heard and sees them better applied? I am trying here to sweep away the idea that there are two forms of education. No! There are two forms of pedagogy: it is not the same. The pedagogy of general education is called "hypothetical-deductive", i.e. it starts from abstraction and remains there; The pedagogy applied to vocational education, on the other hand, starts from the concrete to go towards abstraction. But at the end, the two find themselves in the same abstraction. Mathematics is the same for everyone, just like foreign languages and the rules of spelling and grammar.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u79	We didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u80	Therefore, it is a mistake, again, to believe that two hierarchical teaching orders would be involved. What is prioritised, in fact, is the look that one looks at these two types of teaching. The human species is thus made that mimetic desire plays a decisive role in its behaviour. If you have the impression that those who do this or that job are doing it like a chore, that they are at school and ill-treated, well, this job, you don't want to do it! In other words, all eyes on professional teachings are socially determined by the one looking, not by the thing being looked at. I think I have enough knowledge of the reality that we are talking about so that you can say it before this House: you are mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that learning is in itself the royal way to form the labour force. No: all forms of vocational education depend on the nature of the trades and the general social organization. We've never stopped bragging about the German model. But if one invokes it, one must not be content to take only one end of it; You have to take it as a whole. In Germany, you enter a company as an apprentice, then you do your entire career. Thus, you can very well start as an apprentice before becoming an engineer and even a P-DG – there has been at least one example. But the bargaining system within the company is quite different. At home, we enter trades on all floors, thanks to diplomas – of which we will talk; They are fundamental. It is another organization: let us not depreciate it, it has immense advantages. German workers find themselves in great difficulty when there is a technological leap in a production process. This is not the case for French workers. For example, when the digitally controlled machines arrived, the German industry faced all sorts of problems before the generation running the old machines was able to turn the news. The cycle of a machine is sometimes ten or fifteen years. Perhaps some of them here witnessed the use of the old Heidelberg, with lead lines in 1875. These machines were used until the 1970s; But now there are no more lead lines in the printing press, no more than Maurras or anything like that! In such long cycles, the one whose learning had been progressive was there, because things were not changing very much. But when a technological leap occurs, everything changes! What is the most effective worker at the time of this transfer? The one whose formation is the largest, the largest and the richest of elements of general knowledge. This is exactly what made the French strong; It should not be forgotten in the midst of the jérémiades on national education, with this figure always resounded from the 100,000 students who leave without qualification – without anyone caring to tell us where he saw a single system ensure 100% success. When we look after 12 million young people, of whom 100,000 do not, in fact, achieve the result we want, well, we find the means to remedy it but we do not make it the symbol of our education!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u82	The victory of our education system is to have enabled our country to develop one of the world's first industries! How would we have achieved this result, how would all these technical performances have been possible without these intermediate frameworks of the production tool, without which there is no great industrial nation? Learning has advantages in certain trades, which cannot be dissociated. I am thinking in particular of the craft trades, which combine knowledge, sensitivity and a certain turn of hands. But there are many other occupations where there is no need to make learning a way of training. We also don't see what the benefit would be. As soon as we are finished, we are told, learning is a way to find work. Of course! Any qualified person immediately finds work, I confirm it to you, except in the absence of production. And it is at this level that one of our great differences lies in the debate on this text. No, unemployment is not the fault of the unemployed. No! Unemployment is due to the insolvency of the country's massive demand. This is very different because when order books are filled, another type of problem has to be faced. And they will eventually fill themselves one day or the other; We'll still find a way out! I myself have suggested a few leads, and the Government, for its part, believes that its plan will work. In short, in the near future, the results will be perceptible. However, at 1.8 or 2 points of growth, there is a mechanical effect, already observed from the time of Lionel Jospin's government, since it was at that time that the rate of growth reached for the last time 2%: immediately, all skilled occupations are in tension; We discover that we lack qualified people everywhere, or that we have allowed time to pass and that, as working habits are lost, we must hurry to put everyone back to work. So, oh miracle, despite this tension in all the trades, we find the workers we need, for the reason I recalled a few moments ago. [[Murmurs on various benches]] This labour force has been qualified by the knowledge transmitted to it. National education, which has led 80% of one age group to the level of the baccalaureate, except in vocational education, has, by that very virtue, produced a population capable of moving from one job to another or from one work technique to another, as it sees its common characteristics. Except in vocational education, I say, because I did perceive a few clamors against the principle of 80% of an age class at the level of the baccalaureate, an illustration of the logic of the "old schnocks" according to which it was better before and today null... This chorus, we know it very well: we have heard it at all times. The same began to glapir and vociferate when 80% of an age class reached the level of the general baccalaureate; But that only 60% of the same age group achieves it in vocational education, it doesn't seem to bother them! Now, let me tell you, a professional bachelor's degree is at least as important to the country as a general-track bachelor's degree. In fact, the professional baccalaureate is often more difficult than the general baccalaureate. I have, for my part, obtained the general baccalaureate and am very satisfied with it, but, honestly, it is necessary to see what is an automated systems maintenance baccalaureate or a professional baccalaureate baccalaureate! Of course, I don't speak for those who still believe that a boilermaker is making pots, and there are still many of them! To the one who prepares a cauldron's CAP, one often asks if he manufactures cauldrons. No! Not cauldrons, but slings: boat, plane or rocket, and manufacturing is micron. Young people are working on digitally controlled machines that are worth each million, and they are dealing with raw materials that are also worth an arm. The bosses, therefore, are willing to pay the price it takes for the guy or the girl not to demolish the machine or the raw material. It's called the qualification, which we're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u83	On this we are totally in agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u84	I'm finishing on learning. This, therefore, is not an exclusive way. No one's ever done it. All ministers, all governments, socialist and right-wing, have come, one after the other, to announce their objectives in this area: 400,000 apprentices, 500,000, 1 million even! Result: walrus! We then invented the bonuses: if you take an apprentice, we told the companies, we'll give you so much and so much. As a result, again, nothing. Why? I remember a discussion with an IUMM official, the Union of Metallurgy Industries and Trades. In this special branch, we need labour. "Here," said my interlocutor, "we want to organize the training. It's going well, I said, I agree. Young people, we give them to you: there are 12 million, or 5 million – depending on who you are ready to take care of. You're not serious, he tells me. No, I replied, it is you who are not: take them therefore, assemble them in groups of twenty-one – it is called a class – and entrust them to a learning master. Oh, no, we can't, he concludes. » Of course, we were blaguiing: you understood me. The limit of learning is the teachers who must be trained. A learning master does not work at the same time in production! When the order book is tense, I'm sorry to tell you that it's not obvious to get the most qualified companion to ask him to look after the young apprentices! In some branches, the apprentice is treated like the young one he is – I was going to say the child, but I don't want to exaggerate. This one is then protected. I talked about it with my friend Adrien Quatennens, who was an apprentice. In its branch, apprentices were well treated; But in other branches, the kid arrives and he is asked to do this and that, without getting too much details! Without good learning masters, no good learning. However, the problem arises everywhere. Don't trust the structures! CFAs are horribly expensive structures: next to professional high schools, their costs are night and day! All you have to do is look at the Director's payroll, which will give you an idea of what's going on at all other levels. In short, it costs too much. However, if you don't have a good master of learning in the job, then it's going wrong! On the one hand, the qualification is not acquired and, on the other hand, young people are leaving! We still need to talk about it: 25% of apprentices leave their jobs after three months! They then inherit, for national education, the sign "PDV": lost sight. The kids, therefore, are neither in school nor in learning, humiliated to the bottom of their own. Since they weren't good at school, they were told to go to the learning side, to work, pretending it would be better and simpler for them. Verdict: Not good either. Broken! So it's up to the parents to catch them by the shoulders and put them somewhere. The best thing, of course, is to put these young people back into vocational education. Here we have an elite teacher who spends his life caring for children whose self-esteem has been broken in general education. I do not accuse him, I only say that this is the result for these young people, broken in their self-esteem. And a young person broken in self-esteem cannot accomplish a rewarding journey, first because he was, as they say, "orientated". There is something terrible to reserve this term for those who are being sent to vocational education. To me, who has studied literature, no one has ever said that I was being "directed" there! I was only told I'd feel good about it. It's always the same thing. Orientation, in any case, will no longer be a memory since you intend to remove all the means dedicated to it, including guidance counsellors-psychologists – COPsy – who were nevertheless very valuable in taking stock of many young people. If so many young people, I said, leave learning, we have to ask ourselves about its content and how it works. The one who speaks to you is certainly not of those who do not like or despise learning: it is not the subject. I am even the one who created the apprentice card, based on the model of the student card. The apprentice card is certainly good for the show. I voted for the creation of this map in the Senate on the idea of a right-wing minister: we were both very pleased with it. In short, learning is expensive. Too many people resign, and segregation is at work. If public vocational education must – I insist on this verb – welcome everyone, it is not the case of the CFAs, who choose the young people they accept or refuse. All kinds of discriminatory processes, or orientation within the CFA, are then taken into account. I will not make it a complete picture, because I would not despair those who listen to me – parents, who have children in apprenticeship, and young apprentices, who do their work with a lot of gossip and seriousness. On the contrary, I want to congratulate them from this rostrum. But in the meantime, I ask you to think about it: the more you deregulate learning, the more you increase the number of people who can get involved, the more you create the conditions for approximation, nearness, unseen failure and lack of regulation. Learning cannot fulfil this function. [["Oh yes, it's long! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is a long time, I know, but the framework of the scheduled legislative time gives me time to explain our principles, and I would like to explain to you what we believe in, so that you can understand well what our angle of entry into the discussion of the articles will be. We support sustainable professionalization. This concept means making the worker himself capable of adapting to the inevitable change in machinery, since, as I said, the cycle has gone from ten to five years. It must be made able to adapt to the new conditions of production. No one said that a knowledge or professional qualification was immutable. The concept must therefore be that one. Let us act modestly every time we touch on education issues. Young people born at this time will enter the labour market in 2041. With educational questions, we have ten, twenty, thirty years of age. No one should have the gratitude to think that he will find the magic wand out loud that makes people instantly adapted or that will allow them to know the production processes in ten or twenty years. I named earlier the number one condition of adaptability, which you call employability: it is to have a knowledge base broad enough to be able to live these variations of production and its tools. Sustainable professionalization requires that the given framework be as broad as possible. So we must not be mistaken about what we are doing. I have noted, Madam Minister, that many of the rapporteurs used the word of jurisdiction. Without being their watchwords, I'm sure we know what we're talking about. So you're not talking about skills by chance. In 2001, France obtained from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) that it withdraws the reference to competences, in order to prefer qualifications. It's not the same word or the same thing, at all. The qualification is assessed by a set of knowledge which must be entered into the diploma, the good currency, that guaranteed by the State, as a broad, extensive professional aptitude. It is the diploma: certificate of professional fitness – CAP –, professional qualification, and others. I have read that the hidden part of all this – perhaps Mr Blanquer will come to talk about it – is also the reform of the definition of professional qualifications. And I read, in a newspaper, an article that was ironic about the fact that there were too many jurisdictions – a charge that may not have any object. The author was surprised, for example, that a distinction was made between the large work and the second work in the building. Still happy that we make this distinction, since both have absolutely nothing to do with it! There is a lot of idleness in the analysis that is made of the trades and how to learn them. Qualification and competence are two concepts that have immediate social involvement: people first look at the content of knowledge, but a qualification is a whole. I also heard members of the Mouvement des entreprises de France – MEDEF – say that diplomas should be modernised. "You just have to do it yourself! I told them. "You have your representatives on the commissions that establish the diplomas. If you're not happy with the ones you sent there, put more, who have less career in offices and a little more in production. It's your business! You do not have the right to say that in France, diplomas are not suitable for jobs, because you are also responsible – with others – for this situation. But let's put that aside. Qualification is the precious heart that the French, and they alone, have brought in the definition of professional teachings, and that others have imitated. We have had no difficulty in defining European diplomas – everyone is blaming a lot on this subject. First, it was impossible to establish equivalences, because the diplomas corresponded to jobs that did not exist in the same way in each country. The only time we did something useful was when we created four diplomas corresponding to four qualifications, and we discussed their content among experts. So we saw each other – something beautiful! – that the words did not designate the same realities, but that the content of the trades was the same. That's what was interesting: to see Germans, Spaniards, English people agree. Englishmen, you can imagine! There's no worse Liberals than these. And that was Blair's day! The minister, to whom I pointed out that, usually, the English were not for the state, replied that they now wanted to try, because what had been done was a disaster. The English had established clubs that run training companies that possessed the diplomas. In this system, because they are English, they have found nothing better to do than to sell the property of these clubs by transferring shares. It was the total: after a while, nothing worked anymore, since in each of its components, the managers of the clubs recruited themselves the people who had the diplomas of their company. In the end, of course, the level was falling because it was necessary to earn money on both sides – to produce knowledge and to consume, as a worker. A disaster! We, the French, have remained firm in our positions. And don't let go. I'm telling you, don't let go! Qualification is the only stable and serious benchmark that can be put forward in sustainable professionalization, because the professions of our time are practical sciences and the technical level of trades continues to rise. If someone doubts it, as I have seen at times, that he is looking at a food production chain: the woman or man responsible for maintaining the automated system that puts the trays on the treadmill is worth as much as the inventor of the machine itself, because if the machine stops, it is terribly expensive to get it back on track. In the background, there's a guy who passes with a broom. This one, if he does not do his job properly, that is, if he did not understand well which product to use, under what conditions and in what proportions, then bacteria and microbes will develop. When the inspector passes, he will do his job: this chain that works, he will declare it incorrect from a health point of view. There are no small trades in this case, and all have high technical content. That is why qualification and its protection allow all of us, the whole of society, to enter into the discussion of what we are learning. If we want to plan the industry of the future, if, for example, we want to force farmers to stop using glyphosate, we will have to teach them how to do otherwise and why glyphosate is condemnable – not to make the peasants sweat, but for the reason behind it. And so on, if we want to stop using a particular product, it is the workers themselves who will use other products. Often, they are the first to know what is bad for the health, not only of the person on the job, but also of the end user of the object. Qualification is a central concept. However, the text deals with the directory of trades, which has already degenerated well since it was created. Initially entrusted to national education – it was not for nothing – we then passed it to the Ministry of Labour. The ministers of labour are all the same: they want this thing. And the ministers of national education – all the same, too – want, and they are right, to keep it in national education, because it is about the transmission of knowledge. In the large register where the state's diploming currency is entered, I mean the state's diplomas, we have added all kinds of private company titles, thinking of making them happy by validating their teaching process. Personally, I am absolutely hostile to it; I don't believe it. The duration of a qualification in the register has now been shortened to five years. I hope we tell those who pay to get into this kind of learning. They must know that the diploma they will obtain will not be for the whole of life, like that of Mr Mélenchon or of the rapporteur, but only for five years. The worst thing is that the bill now introduces certificates of competence. Don't think we didn't see him. It has a complicated and ampulated name, long as the arm, which I quote from memory: "certificate of skills additional to the professional qualification". It's a certificate of competence, and it's a great mistake. Do not allow certificates of competence to exist, in addition to developing the market for the teaching of these certificates! Here is an example that will make you understand why we are so hostile to it. For us, public education is a distributed system: the current generation pays for the education of the learning generation free of charge. On the contrary, the commodification of knowledge is a funded system. You have a financial capital, which you transform into knowledge capital: what was given to you for free yesterday becomes paid. That's why, every time it's about moving from one system to another, you'll find us across the way. But I want to give you an example of what these certificates of competence are, by telling you about the Ford plant, which produces cars at the border of the United States of America. Since this is not our home, we have no reason to be uncomfortable. Imagine being Mexican, you were going to the Ford plant to work. When you arrived, because you were told it wasn't complicated, you offered your know-how. You are told then that, to work in the factory, you need a certificate of Ford skills, which is obtained from the private school, located nearby. You pay and learn the ten gestures that constitute a skill, then return to the factory with your paperwork.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u85	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u86	Madam rapporteur, don't say no, it has already begun. It's all the time! As soon as a breach opens, they sell. I'm not saying you're the one doing it, but that's how it happens. When we invented the validation of experience, it was said in every tone that something would not go wrong if, in order to complete an EAW file, we had to have a competence in this area. As a result, immediately, boxes told employees not to worry, because they could complete the file with them. In the same way, for Parcoursup, we had hardly had time to finish our polemics here that, already, people proposed, for 200 or 300 euros, to help young people to write CVs and other documents. Every time we open a space for commodification, they throw themselves on it. But this is about people's lives, the recognition they have of themselves, through the trades they know how to practice. These people arrive with a certificate of competence valid for five years. However, the lifespan of an automobile model is seven years. In other words, the worker is like an animal with a leash, clinging to his workplace, because he knows how to do one or two things, because he has a skill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u87	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u88	If he had a qualification, he could move from one car manufacturing line to another and perhaps not make cars anymore, but something else. That's the difference, it's social! Down with the certificates of competence! It's a way to hold people, and it's no use, absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u89	It's not in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u90	With a good qualification, there is always time to adapt to the workplace. Arriving on a job and knowing how to do everything, it does not exist, in any occupation. There's always a time for adaptation. Certificates of competence, if developed, would be the first commodity sold by some companies. I would add that the state must keep its hands on these formations. Do not accept, as it is written in watermark in the text, business schools repainted in CFA companies. Talk to employers' federations, e.g. building federations; Ask them what they think about Mr. Bouygues' business school or some other big builder. When you're young, you go, because we promise you a job on the way out – for some, not for everyone. The building federations know that the best elements join the major groups. The whole fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other hand, passes and takes the remaining ones – I don't want to misjudge them, I'm just saying how things are. And when you talk to the representatives of the employers of the building, the carpentry or the metalwork, they tell you that they do not agree that the training, which, until now, was given to workers who freely chose it – that is freedom! – either taken over by some great industrialist, some big box. If you want proof to the contrary, ask young people if they prefer to work in the local restaurant or hotel, or in a large chain. Everyone prefers the big chain, because we are better paid, the work is more fluid – that's what we believe. In the meantime, that's how it happens. So, if we don't give young people the means of this freedom of choice from where they go because they are guaranteed to be paid and treated properly, then we lock them in channels. It is not the freedom we have organized; It is, from the freedom to teach, the restriction of the scope of possibilities for individuals. In total, we consistently defend qualification against, I would say, competence – but I would like to spare myself immediately the false trial that we would be against the competent people. That's not the point, and I hope everyone understands me. You never know... The other day, I said it wasn't everyone's dream to own their apartment. Two or three of my colleagues brought an immediate suit against me that I would have been against the private property of an apartment. Being my own owner, it seemed strange to me, although it seems to do them good to think so. Why will these questions be of particular importance? Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have all asked the question of adaptability. Let us put aside what, in this concept, can eventually separate us, and let us take what we can have in common. Yes, it will change! I'm going to link up with an event that happened this weekend. Mr Trump left the summit, as you know, and refused to sign the paper. It can be attributed – that's what influence agencies say – to the fact that it wants a favourable power relationship with North Korea. All this is far from learning, but brings us back – you will see why. It's a change of era. The United States of America decided in 1971 that it would issue as many dollars as it wanted, and that everyone would take them, whether they liked it or not. This created the financial bubble and relegated the productive economy to the background. We have all heard here, once or again, people make themselves apologists of an economy of services in which the factories would be a sort of archaeological memory. Everyone is coming back, because we have seen well that it is with factories that Germany has accumulated trade surpluses – and, in addition, by making fun of us, which is always pleasing to it. But we saw on Sunday the confrontation between two systems of the same nature, the Americans asking for the possibility of reconstructing their productive base at home, and the Germans, opposite, saying: "No question of you putting us customs duties of this kind! In fact, Trump didn't answer anyone but them when he said, "That's right, cars, we're going to talk about it: 25% customs duty on it, to help you breathe! » You can see it's a shock. It doesn't matter at all. What's going to change? If I tell you, you're not going to believe me, but I think a long sequence of the story is being written. The President – ours – says that no one is eternal; Others have argued that it is a democratic country that we are talking about, where there will be elections. But no one ever came back to Richard Nixon's decision in 1971, no one – no government, no democrat or republican. Similarly, if the United States of America has decided to rebuild its productive base, then we are entering an era of protectionism; barbaric protectionism, made of confrontations, when I plead for solidarity protectionism, i.e. negotiated from country to country according to ability, against the pure and simple system of free trade. But that changes everything! It is Les Echos who say this: you see, it is neither a Bolshevik newspaper nor a supplement of Humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u91	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u92	And the editorialist is Mr.Jean-Marc Vittori, who does not have the reputation of being a cut-off leftist. He wrote: "The American President's choice to challenge the world order built by his predecessors will probably not have major economic effects in the short term. We cross our fingers: a small contraction of production, one or two boxes in bankruptcy, and ottoman! The bubble bursts again. "But it's different," he continues, "in the medium and long term. First, it creates a profound uncertainty that will weigh on investment." This is of direct interest to us. "In such a climate, it is difficult for a company to choose the right country to set up a plant or even a research centre. » "Next, the American choice – this is the most important one – will push major global groups to limit risks by bringing production closer to consumption, in contrast to what they have done massively in the last two decades." Well, that, in my view, is good news. That means we're going to relocate; That is exactly what we were here to propose. But if you relocate, you have to find people to do it! Whether in agriculture or in industry, it is not enough to slam fingers for workers, engineers, professional bins to pop up – especially if, in the meantime, the preparation time of the professional bin has been shortened. Why was she four years old? Because it took time, this joke! It was reduced to three years, to save money; But how many kids are on their way, kids who were able to get to this level in four years and who can't in three years? And now we want to make it blur: total error! Leave the number of qualifications, their specification and the pros that go with it! Because this is how you will equip the country with all these workers and middle managers of production without which there is no modern industry. I have just delivered to you what is, in our view, the essential thing. I conclude by telling you, ma'am, that you have evoked a great deal of freedom of choice; Of course, it is fundamental, but the truth is that it does not exist, as it is socially determined. I've experienced it. I had just graduated. Mine were, let's say, middle managers. I said, "And now, what am I doing? I was told, "You know, you're the one who's got the baccalaureate! » In many circles, the first problem that arises is the world's non-visibility: we don't know, we don't know, and that's why we do it like Dad or as Mom, because their job is good and honest, etc. – you know all this. It is therefore necessary that the possibility of orientation ceases to be a kind of referral station for flows of individuals...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u94	...and become a moment of self-building. And it has to be done in time, because things are going differently in different social settings.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u95	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u96	Today, compulsory education ends at 16 years of age. If, at the age of fifteen, you have not met to find out what you want, you will not know on which side to go. So you're not free. I had experienced a process of this nature. What amazement, for some young girl I think, what a wonder to hear, after having said, coming from the northern districts of Marseilles, "I want to be a judge", the teacher in charge of the examination reply: "Ah, well, that's a good idea; This is where you have to go. She didn't come back because someone didn't tell her, from the start: "Oh, that's not for you. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u97	But that is the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u98	[[Approval on the panel of committees]] Orientation is an absolute necessity. We must organize it, not demolish it, nor think that a young person is capable, in his head as a sixteen, seventeen or eighteen year old, alone, of knowing on which side his abilities carry it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u99	No, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u100	Freedom is guaranteed when it is framed by the means that make it possible. Otherwise, it does not exist; It is a lure, a cruel trap, which gives individuals the feeling that they are responsible for their fate – they are, of course, but much less than they think most of the time, as they have been prepared for rails and locomotives to take them in directions they do not know. We do not want a worker to be chained to his task. We do not want regional degrees, which are pure jokes: this does not exist; A regional qualification doesn't make any sense! The starting point is a collective qualification. We do not want the market to be responsible for planning training, especially when we see the failure of elites to understand what vocational education is. Do you know that not all coastal departments have a professional high school of sea trades?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u101	We know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u102	It's still implausible! This lack sometimes affects an entire region. How is it that the PACA region does not have one? It's unheard of, isn't it? Do all these people have to have the head elsewhere, realize that the development of the country was elsewhere, I do not know where – in the economy of services, as they say –, so that they did not take account of these realities! [[Minister expresses surprise]] We want workers to acquire skills, not skills; that the use value of their knowledge is constantly extended by the use of academic disciplines, and that its exchange value – for this is the dual nature of knowledge – is recognized. How do you do it, if you have destroyed collective agreements binding on companies – yes! –, to have a branch agreement... [[Murmures]] But I don't explain myself, obviously, so I'm adding another second. In the French system, there is school. We have a diploma; This diploma is placed in a collective agreement which is signed with workers and employers; to such degree corresponds to such level of hiring and such level of salary. This is the Social Republic: it happens like this; It's the base. You have your degree, it's worth so much; so your use value has an exchange value. If the collective agreement is not binding on all companies, what is the meaning of this equivalence? There's no more. If diplomas change from place to place and are no longer identifiable, then what will you do? Mrs Pénicaud, no doubt you have heard of the adventures of recognition of skills at Arcelor, over there, in Dunkirk. They found this 20 years ago; People were told, "We're going to recognize your skills. "Congratulation! Everyone was happy. "Yes, yes, I am competent, the other no! And then once we sat down, they discussed the skills, and they discussed the pay with, head by head! Farewell, collective agreements and the rest! If a branch agreement no longer automatically applies to a company, this is how it will happen: at the head of the customer, and the whole system will disassemble. I'll show you if necessary. I would point out that this is how things ended in Arcelor, and that there was a strike to renegotiate the qualifications that people had acquired. [[Minister approves]] The same applies to the validation of experience. You're talking about campuses. We'll come back to it during the debate. But the EAW must be identifiable by the workers. We need to know where it is: not in office 235, fourth floor, door to the left, right elevator, at the rectorate; It is in a vocational high school, in the construction sector, that the validation of the building experience is produced; Because that, everyone understands it, it's simple, and we don't see why it wouldn't happen there. And so on. Everything that helps to properly assess the abilities of individuals is good, because it gives them the idea of developing their abilities to improve as much as possible. All of this has nothing to do with the vast system of bargaining that is envisioned in this bill. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will prove it to you. If we convince you, we'll make a difference. Otherwise, you will have heard that our vision of the enterprise is that of a human collective; and the vision that we have of a human collective is that of the knowledge that it shares for production and exchange. And that is the central, essential function, the raison d'être of cooperation between human beings. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR and NG]] That is why the company cannot be presented either as a place of terrible suffering – what it is for some – or as a permanent miracle of efficiency and profitability. It is first of all a tool, and – it would be good to remember – for a tool to be worth something, it takes hands to hold it. But hands, without the head, it's not worth anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u103	We will now hear explanations of vote on the motion to reject. The first speaker is Mr Laurent Pietraszewski, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u104	Jean-Luc Mélenchon painted a very dark and sad portrait of the bill. Suffer, dear colleague, that I do not – obviously – have the same vision as you, neither I nor my colleagues in the La République group on the move. Of course, we will oppose your motion of rejection. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Yet, Mr.President Mélenchon, there were good reasons to expect more positive elements from you. How can you, in essence, be against social emancipation through work? How, in essence, can you deny all our citizens the opportunity to become actors in their professional project, to decide to train and, independently, to increase their employability,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u106	... to deal with a real problem in our country for more than thirty years – mass unemployment? Among all the points that I have noted, I have a friendly thought for the employees of Pôle Emploi, whom I know well in Lomme, Armentiles and Lille, and whose exchanges with job seekers, when they make them benefit from their professional assessment advice or accompany them, are very far from what you have described to us. I take the opportunity to greet them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will therefore understand that we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u107	Mr Gérard Cherpion, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u108	Our colleague Jean-Luc Mélenchon has just defended a motion of rejection with the oratory talent we know him. I am a little surprised: in his remarks, in his analysis, certain facts call me. Why is there no vocational high school of sea trades in the PACA region, while Mr Mélenchon was Minister Delegate for Vocational Education between 2000 and 2002? It's not from yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u109	Because the minister doesn't have that power!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u110	Why develop elements that are still far from reality, Mr. Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u111	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u112	[[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] Who, in fact, created the student trades card? It is not Mr Mélenchon: it is the law of July 28, 2011, and I am well placed to tell you about it, as well as Bernard Perrut, who was co-signatory, with Jean-Charles Taugordeau and myself, of the bill from which this text came.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u114	We should see the debates in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u115	In addition, this motion opposes everyone: general and vocational high schools, vocational high schools and apprenticeship training centres, the company and the employees. But this is not the purpose of our text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u116	"Our" text? Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u117	... which aims to give our young people and people undergoing retraining various opportunities for access to training, employment, and pride in their employment. That is why the Republican Group will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u118	There's no more opposition to the right! She's on the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u119	The next speaker is Mrs Patricia Gallerneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u120	The Democratic and Related Movement strongly opposes this motion of prior rejection. The aim here is to support an ambitious, necessary reform whose main objective is to secure the professional paths of individuals by at last giving them more freedom, but also protection. Whether it is vocational training, apprenticeship or unemployment insurance, the text deals with dense but essential subjects for the modernisation and adaptation of our economic and social model. It must enable our citizens to have control over their working lives, to develop their own skills effectively throughout their careers, and to adapt to economic changes that have a significant impact on entire sectors. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In addition, the third part of the reform addresses issues that cannot be left out. Thus, clear answers are given to the questions of inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market or of occupational equality between women and men. The labour society for all can only be a political posture, Mr. Mélenchon. That is why this text is fully consistent with concrete, legible and effective measures. This bill marks the culmination of last year's re-engineering of the labour and employment ecosystem. We are committed to its rapid adoption. That is why our group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u121	The next speaker is Francis Vercamer, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u122	I have listened well to President Mélenchon's speech, and I share some of his observations. He has indeed pointed to several dysfunctions in our society and in vocational training. With regard to unemployment insurance, for example, I had made the same intervention during the examination of the Social Security Financing Bill, and I was surprised that its contribution funding would be passed on to solidarity, through taxation, while there were other ways to lower the cost of labour, by transferring other contributions to tax. I also agree on the question of learning teachers. It is good to develop learning, yet there must be teachers! Today, however, it is difficult to find them in the TPEs. That is why I have tabled amendments to try to simplify the recruitment of learning teachers and to avoid lock-in at work in the text. Finally, I fully agree with her comment on the factory and services. For years, in this House, we have only talked about services, saying that the factories are polluters that have to be removed. It is therefore not surprising that vocational education has disappeared from radar screens. From the time that there was no more factory-based professional activity, education suffered and was devalued. But our points of agreement end there! I do not agree with the principle of the Great Evening. Vocational training has been changing for nearly fifty years, a small step by step. The first law on continuing vocational training was published in 1971. Then, gradually, the laws changed vocational training, along with changes in society, labour law and international competition. Vocational training needs to be developed slowly. We have changed governance and funding, and we continue to do so. I do not know if this law will be effective, but, not on the assumption that it is necessarily bad, I have tabled amendments to try to enrich it. It improves certain elements, such as the portability of rights or the support of the employee. Mr Mélenchon, I do not agree with you at all on the question of national qualification. The lace of Calais will always be in Calais, the handkerchief of Cholet in Cholet and the pipes of Saint-Claude in Saint-Claude. For all these occupations, the qualification can only be territorial, since they do not exist elsewhere. Not everything can be done at the national level. Finally, minister, your law will change several things, entrusting training not to the region but to the branches. I want to warn you about the danger of this transition. There should not be a hollow for six, eight or ten months, the time for decrees and circulars to be taken, the standards to be set – we like all this in France – because the training bodies will have died when the vocational training will have to go back. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, although I agreed with Mr Mélenchon on several points, the independent UDI-Agir Group will not vote on its motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u123	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u124	Madam Minister, the subjects we are discussing this week in the Chamber are major: vocational training, apprenticeships and the management of professional transitions. They are so important that we do not think it is our responsibility to engage in discussions on a text that is obviously not mature. Fifteen days ago, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you yourself tabled a little more than thirty amendments, some of which completely rewritten several articles, even changing the mind; The same applies to the amendments tabled by our rapporteur, who have come to redress several errors, in particular on the single contribution of the apprenticeship tax. The text is not applicable and, Madam Minister, you agree with it yourself, since you told us that the consultation was under way. You have launched missions to clarify the scope of future competency operators. Mr Blanquer, in turn, launched another mission to clarify the relationship between ONISEP and its regional delegations, the DRONISEP. Section 66, for its part, refers to orders that are known to contain major measures. And that is without mentioning the emptiness of the 3 million of our overseas compatriots. These are the reasons why we believe that we must continue to work on this text. On the substance, we are also concerned, as we will have the opportunity to clarify in the general discussion. Where you claim to free individuals, we fear that you will release markets above all. We are concerned about the commodification of learning. While it was, until your reform, a non-market service of general interest, you bring it into the market sector and privatize the professionally evolving advice – the CEP. Your standards are more than modest, since you do not even offer professional social security, nor universal unemployment insurance, since your measures will only concern 50,000 people. Desiring to move forward on these important issues, we will vote on the motion to reject beforehand, as will the motion to refer to the next committee, to continue our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u125	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u126	Those of our colleagues who have found President Mélenchon's motion of prior rejection dark or sad have either not listened to it or not heard it correctly. That's the opposite! It is the enthusiasm of a long-term vision, which requires that vocational training be viewed under another prism than that of immediate employability, especially when we know what is ahead. The first of the challenges that we will all face – the climate issue – requires long-term qualification, not short-term employability, as is the case in this bill. Minister, your bill was announced as the "security" component of flexicurity that you so much praise, where the work orders from the beginning of the legislature represented the "flexibility" component. Now, under the guise of so-called security, you are making further setbacks and stepping up liberalisation, including training and learning. From the point of view of security, in this bill, there is little or no. You are, in fact, pursuing a logic of liberalisation that defends a short-term and individualised view of the relationship to training, in a logic of employability. It is not in the interests of employees, the interests of the country and the great challenges that we will have to face. During our hearings – we also conducted them on our side – most of the training players told us that they had seen many major training plans and that they would probably still see a lot of them, but that, until we deal with the main problem, which President Mélenchon has shown was that of the shortage of sustainable jobs in our country, we could not resolve the issue. But we understand without difficulty your skillful maneuver: the person in training disappearing a time from unemployment statistics and this one increasing since your arrival, because you need, Madam Minister, to prove that work orders are effective, you reduce unemployment by putting people in training. But the question of sustainable activity remains entirely raised, without you ever dealing with it. In terms of unfilled jobs, the ratio is one for forty-four unemployed. And if we remove the jobs withdrawn from the offers, either because the employer has given up hiring, or because he has not found the employee with the appropriate qualifications, the report is ultimately an unfilled job for three hundred unemployed. The heart of the problem is, therefore, the revival of activity, which is certainly not taken into account in the bill. Today, about eight out of ten contracts are short contracts. It is therefore because of the precariousness of employment that you respond to mass unemployment, when we propose a return to employment through the revival of activity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In addition, several points in this bill will prompt us to react during this week of debate: the very conditional compensation of resignations and independents, far from Emmanuel Macron's promises; the liberalisation of secondment work, although it has once again been shown that social dumping could leniently continue as long as social contributions remain paid in the country of origin; the article that promotes public-private round-trips and the practice of slippers, when the news might have suggested that this was not the right time. Ultimately, this bill ignores in many respects the objectives it claims to serve, such as the freedom to choose its professional future, but pursues a liberalization that it pushes up to the monetization of training, allowing private organizations to anticipate what they can do in the near future, far from what would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u127	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u128	With regard to the form, first of all, this bill has seven distinct subjects, each of which would have deserved time for a real discussion, a real examination, a deepening. However, the form in which you introduce this bill does not really allow it. On the other hand, there are many aspects to the question of compliance with article 34 of the Constitution, since there are about twice as many decrees programmed in the text as articles. Like Jean-Luc Mélenchon, we are convinced that the rights are diminished in the text, and we see nothing of this social emancipation through the work that you boast to us, unless we do not have the same conception of emancipation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u129	That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u130	It is stated in the Preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946 that "The nation shall ensure to the individual and to the family the conditions necessary for their development. We do not believe that your bill will move us forward in this direction. Moreover, it poses a danger of destabilising an already weakened system, by not providing any guarantees on the transition. You take a number of risks in the current state of the project, which reveals impreparation or even improvisation. However, we cannot take such a responsibility. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Finally, this text seems to us to be a heavy one to give up on the market. The Republic is sufficiently weakened in the face of the forces of money; It is a matter of general interest and constitutional order. These various reasons will lead us to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u131	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u132	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u133	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, during the debates in the 2017 presidential election, the main candidates had placed learning among the priorities of the next five years. How else could it be? Learning is a real ready-to-use for young people. The figures do not allow for discussion: more than 70% of apprentices are at work within six months of graduation. The observation was and is still shared today: access to employment through alternance training is too little developed in our country, the employability of a large proportion of jobseekers is decreasing and insufficient, and there is a need to perfect the system of continuing training. If we agree, we differ on the analysis of the causes of this French evil. I consider, Madam Minister, that your diagnosis is wrong – out of conviction or weakness. If learning is not working properly, it is for two main reasons. The first is a totally chaotic period 2012-2017 that is detrimental to learning. While Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium had stood out by giving learning a real dynamic, thanks in particular to the Cherpion law, François Hollande's quinquennium saw the alternation collapse. The cause? Incessant wanderings, changes in aid without informing companies beforehand, changes in financing, refusal to amend the statutes, and so on. Of all this, I can testify since at the time, in my role as learning ambassador on behalf of the Foundation Acting against exclusion, FACE, I attended it, powerless. The second reason is the dogmatism of the French education system, the philosophy of the 1980s, which means that 80% of students – if not 100% – get a baccalaureate. We have thus devalued learning, considering it to be a sub-training, while learning represents an opportunity for young people; We have to say it and say it again. The place reserved for learning through national education is indicative of the bad French exception. It is a scandal that learning is only proposed as a garage for students who are considered not good enough to do something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u135	So it's more than urgent to go back to committee to go back to the root causes of learning dysfunction, and to put your big bang in order. To hear you, Madam Minister, the financing of the contract solves all the problems; It is the choice of agility, responsiveness, market relevance. Yeah, part of it. But seriously consider the situation of the actors today. You are parasitizing the restructuring of the branches through the restructuring of the recognised joint collecting bodies, future operators of skills, and you entrust them with learning. Yet, we are in a landscape where fewer than ten branches are truly capable of fulfilling their new tasks in terms of contract cost and forecasted management of employment and skills, GPEC, structured. What will become of apprentices from other branches – those who will not be able to carry out these tasks – and those who are not covered by any of them? How will four hundred branches do better than eighteen regions which cover the whole of the national territory and its trades, which is also in a context where we do not even know what will be taken into account in the cost of the contract? You are taking risky options on the deployment of a change-sensitive policy. Remember the massive declines in 2014, when the previous government had had fun reviewing funding! As for the regions, you take back a competence – a first since the laws of decentralization – and give them as a lot of comfort interbranch equalization. Your scheme is incendiary, and you ask the regions to play the role of the firefighter and to go to save not only the territories but also the professions in which the branches will not find it useful to invest. The regions have a good back: you remove the professional development council, CEP, you promise them the payment of the new single aid, but you withdraw this commitment from the text and remove the promised multi-year scheme. We have noted with interest your "carrot" amendment which plans to adjust the financing of the regions according to the investments they will have made between 2017 and 2019. Very clever, Madam Minister! We do not want to get into the game of the regions against the branches, of the branches against the regions, because learning needs the forces and the involvement of everyone. Last February, the Government took the right course in proposing the regional scheme that I was referring to at the moment, which was to bring together the agreements of objectives and means signed with the branches. A shared competence must be achieved in order to allow for a coherent deployment of the training offer throughout the country and a better match to the needs of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u137	Finally, your bill misses two major topics: public learning and the place of national education in training. As we know, learning is first and foremost developing in companies, which the law requires to recruit in apprenticeships. But what about local authorities and the state? Before giving lessons to others, one must sweep in front of one's door: the public can no longer avoid learning. It is a complicated but essential subject. Among the many figures I have met in working on this bill is the director of the apprentice training centre, CFA, of Roville-aux-Chênes, in the Vosges, specializing in the professions related to green spaces. To date, the Grand Est region has assisted municipalities in hiring apprentices; tomorrow, since you are withdrawing learning from the regions, they will also withdraw from this type of support. Who will make up for this loss? The branches? The State? I don't think so. Thus, you do not solve the problem of learning in the public, but you will strengthen it. Finally, perhaps out of fear of national education, you maintain the system of vocational high schools without touching it. While the regions, whose officials know their territory, maintained a balance between vocational high schools and the CFAs, it is unlikely that the branches will do so. So you're going to compete with two systems, and I'm afraid the only losers are in the end young people. Similarly, to compensate for the loss by the regions of learning competence, you transfer to them the orientation competence, but without transferring to them the means, i.e. the management of the information and guidance centres, IOC. It's a mistake. The direction is the great absence of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u138	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u139	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u140	You put a foot in the door, when it should have been opened in large. As long as we do not solve the problem of orientation, you can philosopherise as you want, young people will continue to be directed towards default learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u141	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u142	For all these reasons, we need to go back to committee, just to review your learning copy. Madam Minister, you are ambitious for France and that is so much better. You want our country to catch up with its skills gap and we agree. The economic crisis has masked the evolution of skills, and there is a major challenge to remain in the international economic competition and to avoid producing battalions of dropouts who will join armies of people unfortunately far from employment. It is not because we are talking less about unemployment figures that the situation is improving. But it is not certain that pushing the logic of individualization to its climax is the most effective solution, and that taking the company out of the adventure of the personal training account, CPF, the most pragmatic choice. You leave individuals alone with an account in euros and facing a digital application, and ask them to do the work of dozens of OPCA advisors. You give them responsibility for increasing their skills while lowering their rights to 500-800 euros per year. What's going to happen? The training bodies, on the lookout, will calibrate their offer on these new rights: you will give a boost to the supplementary or recreational trainings. But how can we look for certification and qualification training when a skills check already costs 1500 euros? That is a real concern for us, Madam Minister. We must at all costs formalize the co-construction of the routes, in the spirit of this famous interprofessional national agreement, ANI, whose signature you did not wait to denounce. You're telling us that abundance agreements are possible. Yes, it has been the case since 2014! But we need to go further to develop the win-win logic that will allow the employee to progress and the company to fill the skills shortages that our country is suffering. You cannot leave, on the one hand, employees alone with weakened rights, and on the other hand, companies with the duty to train their employees but without pooled funds. This is exactly what you are doing, with the exception of companies with less than fifty employees, who will benefit from vertical equalization for their skills development plans. In your dream world, companies will invest heavily in training and assets will know and will have the means to make the right choices. Is that reality? I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u143	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u144	To start with, we'd have to do things in order. It is necessary that the certification obligations of the bodies are effective for all at the time of the launch of the renovated training account, not two years later as foreseen in the text, and that the new Joint Committees for the validation of the transitional CPF are in order to be in order next year, in order to avoid blocking life projects. To sum up, your bill enshrines individualism. Yet the employee is not alone in his or her world: the company must be put at his or her side, it must accompany him or her. We need to completely review your copy on this point. With regard to the future of unemployment insurance, I wish, following my colleague Gérard Cherpion in committee, that everyone understands what is happening. The combination of mass and long-term unemployment and underemployment is catastrophic for the nation. Unemployment not only destroys individual destinies, it weakens the whole country and compromises its future. Unemployment fuels unemployment. It is not just an economic problem: we imperceptibly abandoned a social and cultural model that certainly had its shortcomings, but where, at least, it was accepted and almost guaranteed that each generation would leave to the next generation a better world, stronger chances, a better situation. This model of society has been behind us for two decades without real explanations and sincere conclusions. Mass unemployment, precarisation, increasing inequality; Should we accept that exclusion characterizes our French society when its light would like it to be inclusive? Should we accept the fatalism and the alleged impotence of public officials? For this impotence is paid: it is a real crisis of our democracy and a crisis of confidence in the institutions and the women and men who embody them. Facing this, what are you doing? Not only do you have no real employment policy, but worse, you question in an assumed way the contributory and insurable nature of the unemployment insurance scheme. The impact assessment clearly mentions the establishment of a mixed system, partly based on national solidarity. It seems logical that the Government, from the moment it allocates approximately €16 billion of CSG to UNEDIC, should invite itself in its governance, even if it turns management paritarianism into a guarantee paritarianism. But at the same time, the text tries to honour a campaign promise and offers a package to the independents in liquidation: 800 euros per month for six months. At the same time, the Minister for Public Accounts explains to us that we must find EUR 4 billion, that the merger of social minimums is a solid path and that there is too much national solidarity. That, Madam Minister, is all the ingredients gathered to prepare for the transition from unemployment insurance to an unemployment package merged with other minima, where to receive 800 euros per month for six months after a loss of employment may be the norm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u145	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u146	It's not about being scared...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u147	Apparently I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u148	...but to ask the real questions in the light of what has been said in recent weeks: do we want to keep social shock absorbers in France? Your bill begins the almost silent questioning of one of the pillars of our social protection, born under the impulse of General de Gaulle and by the will of the social partners. General de Gaulle, who had a real idea of France, trusted the social partners. Now you are taking the keys to the system away from them, even though on many occasions they have shown more courage than the state, as during the reform of the AGIRC – the general association of management pension institutions – and the ARRCO – the association for the supplementary pension scheme of employees. This transformation, which you assume, is heavy with meaning, but you do not want to explain it to the French, who, when they wake up, will discover the death of the unemployment insurance they knew. Finally, the minister, and even more so than her substantive provisions, we are concerned with the formal aspects of this bill. It deals with vocational training and apprenticeships, which are envisaged in terms of their quality, financing and governance, but also with unemployment insurance, supervision of jobseekers, secondment, inclusion of disabled workers, occupational equality, mobility of the high civil service... This drawer text provides very few security guarantees, whereas, precisely, it was intended to provide counterpart to the measures adopted in the framework of the Labour Code reform orders. Not so long ago, the government put social democracy ahead of parliamentary democracy: my socialist colleagues will probably remember the period during which the law was to be "ANI – an interprofessional national agreement – just ANI". Today, the state of mind is rather to invite the social partners to negotiate, consult, consult and allow the Government to do so. Is that the new world: neglect both social democracy and parliamentary democracy? This is what you are doing, for example, by announcing measures even before the signing of an NIA, by introducing a clearly unfinished bill on the Bureau of this House, but also by having parliamentarians sit before the end of the consultations, as was the case with regard to equality between women and men during the examination of this text in committee, and as is always the case with disability. Continuing training, vocational training is a priority: on this point, we join. But priority doesn't mean urgency. We cannot keep our course in haste, we cannot carry out a successful reform in unpreparation. The numerous rewriting amendments adopted in committee on the transitional CPF, on the single tax – which no longer seems to be unique – and on the pay gap between women and men, clearly show that your text is still changing. And, judging from the number of amendments tabled by the Government on Article 40 – on the obligation to employ disabled workers – you remain on the same logic. In committee, the Government tabled thirty-two amendments, and thirty-three, for the time being, in open session – not to mention the hundreds of amendments tabled by the rapporteurs. The National Assembly meets to examine well-defined texts, it is not there to watch the texts written before its eyes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u150	You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to return to the examination of Article 17. To transmit to the rapporteur an amendment to rewrite the entire article, on a subject as technical as the funding channels for vocational training and apprenticeship, deserves in itself a return to committee. Without assuming the powers of the members of this House, it is obvious that no one was able to read this rewrite amendment at the same time as the committee was conducting its work. And I will move on to the Abracadabrantes exchanges on liberating expenditure, especially when you maintained that increasing the "out of quota" from 23% to 13% would not change the amounts involved, or when the rapporteur told us that the current law did not limit the benefit of these funds to private establishments in the non-profit sector, which, of course, is wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree that national representation, when taken off guard on financial "piping" items as arduous as these, rarely comes out of the debate. Our group therefore considers, without calling into question the chairmanship of the committee, which allowed everyone to speak, that the conditions for an informed debate have not been met. This bill is therefore another missed opportunity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group is asking for this bill to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u151	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. The next speaker is Mr Laurent Pietraszewski, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u152	By listening carefully to you, Mr. Viry, I was thinking that we share the same goals for our unemployed fellow citizens. Our majority did find, when it arrived, a situation that you described very well, no doubt the result of more than thirty years of failure of public policies aimed at combating unemployment – everyone here will take their share of the responsibility for these failures. You also tell us that this bill is not quite ready, and you illustrate this statement with some important examples in your eyes. But, my colleague, the opposite is true: if the committee has adopted more than 300 amendments, it means that it has done its job well. You can't complain about it. Rather, it is proof that our democratic system and our institution are working well. The Government presented some 30 amendments at the meeting, you said; All right, it's probably that there are things to discuss together, which you seem to wish for yourself. Your intervention in defence of this motion for referral to committee has been quite profuse. I would like to return to one specific point: you said that the provisions on learning alone would justify referring this text back to committee. But can we satisfy ourselves with an apprenticeship rate of 7%, whereas in all the neighbouring European countries this rate is almost double? No, these results show that the current system is working badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u153	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u154	Our ambition is to offer a better future, a prospect of becoming 1.3 million young people permanently excluded from employment, training and the school system. That is why there is absolutely no need to refer this text back to committee, and it should be discussed in committee and voted on. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u155	The next speaker is Mr Bernard Perrut, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u156	We too have listened very carefully to our colleague. His argument is truly valid, particularly with regard to the work carried out in committee, under the authority of our president, Brigitte Bourguignon. Of course, everyone was able to express themselves, but this text appeared to be unfinished, changing, deserving to be matured. Stéphane Viry has shown this with many arguments relating to apprenticeship, vocational training and unemployment insurance. He also referred to the abundance of amendments tabled by the Government, on which we have not been able to debate in an informed manner. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I have taken note of the arguments put forward by our colleague Laurent Pietraszewski. It is true that successive governments have been trying for a long time to improve these arrangements. At first glance, no one can oppose measures promoting employment, the integration of young people and learning. Yet even those governments that thought they were pursuing the best possible policies in this area have often failed. To succeed in such a reform, minister, we need to work deeper, to obtain certainty on the points raised by Stéphane Viry. That is why our group supports this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u157	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u158	It is logical that the MODEM Group will vote against this motion for referral to committee. The draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future is part of the momentum of reforms initiated since the beginning of the quinquennium with the ordinances reforming the labour code, and in line with the commitments made by the President of the Republic. The subjects of vocational training, apprenticeship and unemployment insurance are dealt with in such a way that it is an unprecedented modernisation of our social protection model that is proposed to us. It is up to us to work there to provide our fellow citizens with a society of skills and emancipation through work. It also includes concrete measures for a more inclusive and egalitarian society: this is the subject of Title III, on disabled workers, on occupational equality between women and men, and on the issue of seconded work. Our group therefore enthusiastically supports the general philosophy of this text, and will endeavour to propose provisions to complement it usefully in an ambition shared with the Government. We have done extensive work in the Committee on Social Affairs, where 300 amendments have been adopted. We would like to stress the quality of our discussions, and hope that the work that begins today in a public meeting will continue to improve the text, in the interest of French and French people. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That is why we will vote against this motion for referral to committee, and call on all our colleagues to participate in our work in a constructive and effective way.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u159	Mr Paul Christophe, for the IDU Group, speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u160	In the wake of the remarks made by our colleague Stéphane Viry, we draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the fragility of this bill with regard to the orientation and assessment of the relationship between cost and training proposed by the agencies concerned. I would also like to express my regret about people with disabilities. The text considered in committee dealt with this issue only in an incomplete manner. You yourself, the minister, admitted this failure, and explained it by the fact that the consultation was not completed at that time. [[Smile]] However, I welcome the quality and effectiveness of the debates in committee under the auspices of its President and the rapporteurs, as well as your presence with us, Madam Minister. We hope that the debate will continue in our Chamber. I would like to take this opportunity to bring to your attention the excellent amendments tabled by the members of the IUD, Action and Independent Group. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I prefer to bet that a good reception will be given to them and that we will have quality debates. We will therefore abstain on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u161	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u162	I thank our colleague Stéphane Viry for expressing a widely shared feeling: this text is still under construction, and its instability does not allow us to work calmly and effectively. In view of the short time allowed for us to table amendments between the time when we were able to have the text from the committee's work and the closing of the tabling of amendments at the sitting, there is cause for concern. I am also concerned about the number of amendments tabled by the Government at the meeting: this is an indication of the continuing instability of the text. It therefore seems to us that the work prior to the consideration of this text at the meeting should be continued. We will therefore vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u163	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u164	In my turn, I would point out that Stéphane Viry has put forward many good reasons for referring this text back to committee. Just now, Laurent Pietraszewski said that we could not satisfy ourselves with the existing provisions, which he seemed sufficient to justify this reform. But it is not because the existing one does not agree that your reform is good! We will discuss it, but this rhetoric has its limits; I wanted to stress that. In the course of the debates in committee, disagreements were expressed and different visions were opposed. All this shows the fragility of this text, not all of which have disappeared. What about, for example, the conversion of current training accounts? As Stéphane Viry has said, many questions remain, particularly about apprenticeship or unemployment insurance, which deserve us to come back to committee. We could use the time that a new examination of this text in committee, with a better knowledge of its content, would allow us to have a more in-depth discussion with the various actors in society. Some bodies, which are cut off by certain provisions of this text, have not been associated as they should have been with a real reflection on the major issues at stake in vocational training. In order to make the best possible arrangements on these fundamental issues, we should go much further in our discussions and discussions in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u165	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u166	In the general debate, Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u167	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, one of the major challenges facing our country, the heart of our battle, is the fight against mass unemployment, especially unemployment, which affects young people and the most vulnerable groups. This is a national priority – it is about preserving our republican pact, based on the values of equality and solidarity. It is also an issue of society, the competitiveness of our businesses and growth. The reforms of apprenticeship and vocational training, the result of a national consultation involving all the players in the sector, are part of this objective by pursuing a twofold ambition: to make continuing training a protective shield and a tool for the emancipation of individuals, and also to make it an investment in the competitiveness of enterprises and the employability of employees. This double ambition is built on a strong commitment of the President of the Republic during the presidential campaign: "there will be no change in society and the economy if there is not, at the same time, a formation of each and every one" – a conviction that we share, I know, all here. Economic growth is the manifestation of a permanent cycle of destruction and job creation, a movement that is now accelerating in a world in full technological change, marked by increasingly fierce competition. Our duty is to protect the person by giving him or her the means to evolve rather than to protect jobs that will eventually disappear. Two figures are enough to persuade us: 60 per cent of 2030 jobs do not yet exist, and the unemployment rate was 8.9 per cent last month, while nearly 300,000 jobs are not filled in certain so-called "voltage" occupations. So yes, the battle we have to fight together is that of increasing the skills of citizens through education and training! Let us invest in human capital, as advocated by economist Gary Becker – mentioned by the chairman of our commission. "Education is the most powerful weapon to change the world," these were Nelson Mandela's words. These words are more relevant than ever. The founding principles of vocational training, as designed by Jacques Delors in 1971, were based on a strong idea, 'education, a treasure inside', which must always guide us. Today, we are at a crossroads, struck by technological upheavals, artificial intelligence. Several reforms followed in 2004, 2009 and 2014 without the expected results. Today, another new reform, our fellow citizens will think. We cannot afford to fail. That is our responsibility. The challenge is great: despite an aggregate of 32 billion euros per year, our vocational training and apprenticeship system is as inefficient as it is inaccessible, as opaque as it is unjust. Unfortunately, this finding is unappealable. As you have pointed out on several occasions, minister, today is the combatant's journey to find training. The figures speak for themselves: only 36% of French people have access to continuing vocational training each year, compared with 54% in Germany; France has only 400,000 apprentices, twice as many as in Germany where the unemployment rate is low, while in our country 1.3 million young people are neither in employment nor in training nor in a school or university curriculum; On average, seven months elapsed between the loss of a job and the entry into training of an unemployed person in France; vocational training benefits executives of large private companies twice as much as workers and employees of small and medium-sized enterprises; Since January 1, 2015, only 5.3 million French have opened a personal training account while we have nearly 30 million assets! Our citizens are faced with a lack of accessibility, a lack of guidance and a lack of accompaniment. They are not involved in their own training courses. Madam Minister, you have announced a "Copernician revolution", a "big bang" of vocational training and apprenticeship, of which I share the philosophy. Tomorrow, our trainings will be more agile, more accessible, fairer, more efficient and more transparent. More agile, because the certification standards will be co-built between the professional branches and the national education, in order to restore agility to the training offer. More accessible as the personal training account will no longer be written in hours but in euros. This will encourage disintermediation of the system by allowing direct use of rights with providers, in particular through the creation of a mobile application. Each employee will have access to information on all training, their employability rates and projected wages. Tomorrow, the OPCAs, which have become operators of skills, will see their missions refocused towards the advice and support of companies in the development of their training plans. Fairer, because the large investment plan for skills, worth EUR 15 billion on the quinquennium, will make it possible to better train and accompany 2 million low-skilled people, the long-term unemployed and young people, in order to provide a concrete response to the unemployment of this population, whose rate is 18% in our country. During the examination of the bill in the Committee on Social Affairs, we also defended a more inclusive society so that workers with disabilities could benefit from an increased personal training account. More efficient and transparent, as users will also be better accompanied by the creation of a national agency, France Skills, to regulate the quality of training and its costs. The labelling of training organisations must be structured, as it is heterogeneous and requires real pilotage. Guidance is also one of the priorities of the majority. From now on, assets will be able to seek professional advice from their region free of charge in order to better meet their expectations. There is also an urgent need to upgrade apprenticeships: 400,000 apprentices in France are too little! However, 70% of apprentices find a job at the end of their training. That is why, through 20 concrete measures, we decided to protect young apprentices by making their status more attractive, and to free up the energy of companies by lifting the barriers that prevented them from becoming more involved in learning. Openings of new CFAs and sections will be made possible by a change in the method of financing the apprenticeship: the contract cost, through which the financing of the CFA training of a young person who has found a company will be automatically validated. All learning money must be spent entirely on learning! Europe is also at the heart of our society project. Tomorrow, 15,000 apprentices per year will be able to benefit from the Erasmus programme to carry out several months of training in another European country. Our goal is to change the image of learning and to transform it in depth, to change the scale and make it a true path of excellence, finally recognized by all. To Nelson Mandela's wisdom mentioned above, I would add that competence is also one of the most powerful weapons to combat the economic and structural unemployment that affects our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will conclude by stressing that the economic transformation supported by our majority is fully reflected in this bill! The emancipation of women and men through the acquisition and upsurge of skills will allow everyone to truly have the freedom to choose their professional future!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u168	Nice synthesis!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u169	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1264.u170	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the bill on freedom to choose your professional future. The meeting is adjourned.
