ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u2	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to put her question, No. 384 on the strategy for the transformation of the health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u3	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. In March 2018 the strategy for the transformation of the health system for the quinquennium was presented. The minister said that she wanted to move towards a system more oriented towards the patient's path, the financing of prevention, the coordination of actors and the medical and medical-social sectors, the quality of care and the relevance of the acts. Today, France spends 11.7% of its GDP on health, placing it fifth among OECD countries. It is also the second country with the highest life expectancy. But in terms of healthy life expectancy at sixty-five years, it ranks ninth in Europe. As you know, our health care system has to cope with the ageing of the population and the explosion of chronic diseases. It is too centered on care and insufficiently on prevention. As the adage says, prevention is better than cure. The Government has launched five major projects: placing the quality and relevance of care at the heart of organizations and practices; rethinking methods of remuneration, financing and regulation; accelerate the digital shift; adapt training to the challenges of the health system and support the transformation of work and occupations in the public hospital sector; rethink the territorial organisation of care. These global perspectives are particularly interesting, but in concrete terms, what financial means does the Minister of Health intend to release for our health care system in the next Social Security Financing Bill? What concrete measures does it immediately envisage to improve the daily lives of health-care workers at work and patients in their health paths?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u4	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u5	Mr President, Madam Member, I apologize for the absence of the Minister of Health. The holding of the Council of Ministers this morning is somewhat disrupting this oral question-and-answer session without debate. Like you, I want to reaffirm the importance of our health care system, particularly our health care system. It is undergoing a profound change and real difficulties, which have not occurred in recent years and which are compounded by the ageing of the population, in a context of success in the fight against certain diseases, but also of the development of new diseases. These developments make it necessary to transform our health care system in depth. This is what the Government has undertaken, with the aim of not making it an umpteenth reform of the hospital. Because many reforms of the hospital have already been carried out, without succeeding in finding all the solutions – I do not want to question anyone by saying this, but to explain the fact that we are making. Not everything can be reduced to an accounting approach, but you have asked concrete questions, and the question arises in our hospitals. If we only had an accounting answer, I could tell you that the budget for the public hospital is increasing by EUR 1.7 billion this year. It's huge, but in the reality of institutions, it may not be enough. I could tell you that ONDAM – the national health insurance expenditure target – is increasing by 2.3%, which is also huge in view of the increase in public spending, and yet we know that this may not be enough. It is therefore essential to move from funding that does not encourage cooperation and that values quantity in relation to quality and relevance, to an appropriate system, turned prevention and care. The Minister of Solidarity and Health reiterated her wish to propose a true path of care for the patient. The aim is not to save money but to see how, with the same amount of expenditure, the quality of life of French people can be improved. Some of the measures inspired by the five health projects may be included in the 2019 funding bill, which I cannot reveal to you today. With regard to the quality of life at work of carers, Agnès Buzyn has entrusted Edouard Couty with a new task of prefiguring a mediation mechanism on the working conditions of carers in the broad sense. It is essential that we can move forward on this issue. In the same spirit, Minister Vidal and Frédérique Vidal announced last April fifteen commitments for the well-being of health students, following Dr. Donata Marra's report. All these measures must allow us to change the system of care in France in depth, because it is essential for each and every one of us, in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u6	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor to put his question, No 375, concerning the new location of the Grand Paris Nord hospital-university campus project.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u7	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. For several years, the north of Greater Paris has suffered from the absence of recent hospital complexes while the population continues to grow. The outdated Bichat hospitals – located in the third district of Paris, of which I am the elected one – and Beaujon means that they will not be able to accommodate patients in these territories in a few years' time. At the end of 2016, following a memorandum of understanding, all partners – the State, the University, the Public Assistance-Hospitals of Paris, the City Hall – worked on the implementation of a Grand Paris Nord hospital-university campus project in the ZAC Les Docks de Saint-Ouen. Recently, in view of the additional costs and complexity of the case – a flood zone, the costs of the clean-up of the land and compensation for evictions... – the prefect of the region has considered an alternative solution, still in the commune of Saint-Ouen, which seems to have significant advantages in terms of accessibility for the public – this hospital pole would be 30 meters from Garibaldi station and 200 meters from the future station of line 14 – as well as costs and ease of implementation. As a Member of Parliament for the third constituency, invested alongside the actors for the establishment of a hospital centre worthy of this name for the north of Paris, I note that this project raises concerns, sometimes natural, sometimes raised by one or the other, as regards both its geographical configuration and the content of the proposed care offer, with some raising the number of beds as the sole criterion. Convinced of the need for this project, but also of the need to think about what the hospital of the future should be, I hope, Mr Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, that you will assure us of the support of the State for the completion of this project and we will share your vision of what a hospital should be in 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u8	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u9	I know your full commitment to this case. I remember our first exchanges and your interest in the subject even before you were elected to this constituency. The lack of hospital supply in the north of Paris concerns both the hospital community and all the elected representatives who are now mobilized to make the project of a large hospital-university campus Grand Paris Nord see the light of day. You recalled the difficulties that hospitals in Bichat and Beaujon face and the need to work on the Grand Paris Nord project. You have stressed the urgency of a new and more functional framework for the reception of patients, better working conditions for health professionals, and strong physical and organizational integration between hospital, research and training, which is essential for the quality of care, for the accompaniment and for the recruitment of the best professionals in our hospital centres. That is why the Ministry of Solidarity and Health committed 168 million euros at the end of 2016 to carry out the hospital valence of the project, whose geographical location was perfect but whose implementation, as you said, is now a problem because of the structure of the soil. We are facing a risk of financial collapse – and we are talking about public money. We know that if we let go without a decision, the project will not happen. It is therefore necessary to seek a solution that allows the objective – the construction of the centre – and the timetable – to be maintained as quickly as possible, in any case for such a building. But it was necessary to have the courage to see the additional land and development costs on the proposed site. This is why the prefect asked the project promoters to study the feasibility of an installation on a site with the same characteristics in terms of geographical positioning, accessibility and availability of the land space to accommodate a hospital and university campus, but also in terms of respect for the initial cost, because it is public money. You have mentioned the alternative envisaged. I want you to know, honourable Member, that the Minister of Health is, like you, very attentive to this project. The regional prefecture, whose ad hoc operational committee monitors the project in particular, and the regional health agency consider this reconstruction to be necessary and a priority. The Government fully supports this project and its officials, including the AP-HP, so that a definitive settlement solution can be found in the coming months, and not beyond.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u10	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u11	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, which I believe will reassure all the actors working on this issue. For projects of general interest such as this one, it is necessary that all actors, regardless of their political edge, be fully aligned to serve the interests of citizens. In this case, it is vital that we find, for the north of Paris, an offer of care adapted to the needs, and that we take the opportunity to rethink what the provision of city care should be, because our constituencies are often confronted, including in Paris, with the problem of medical desertification. I believe that the success of this project is absolutely necessary, and I am very pleased to be able to count on the support of the State in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u12	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Dassault, to put his question, No 383, on the financing of dependency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u13	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, no one has yet managed to find the formula of eternal youth. It's a cruel reality... Our population is aging, the welfare state is out of breath and the challenges are growing. Successive governments waited, waited... but the great reform never appeared. What is desired is not a mere evolution, but a revolution in the management of dependency and its financing. Today's needs are already poorly met, while there are only 1.5 million elderly people. The departments are taking the situation as they can, despite the decline in their endowments, while the demography of the old age has not yet been bogged down. How will we assume our 5 million papis and granies by 2050 if nothing is anticipated? The announcements of the road map presented by the Minister of Solidarity and Health are in the right direction. It is indeed essential to improve care in EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent elderly people – and the quality of life at work of healthcare workers, to prevent loss of autonomy, to promote family caregivers and to make progress in telemedicine. All this is reassuring. But what about funding? Some targeted actions have not been quantified. The President of the Republic considered that a second day of solidarity might be "an interesting path" to be considered. Is this one of the paths of the next reform? Will you be able to guarantee the correct dangling of these means if they add up? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to compensate the rest of the families, which becomes more and more important as the parents weaken?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u14	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u15	Of course, honourable Member, nothing in your statement can be called into question. Everyone is aware of the issue, both personal, moral and ethical. A society honors itself when it is able to welcome and accompany its older members. As you said, 1.7 million French are over 85 years old today, and they will be 5 million by 2050. How can we cope with this in terms of reception capacity? Especially as the support system for our seniors has changed. We have moved from the era of the polynuclear family, where all the members lived together, from grandchildren to grandparents, to a society where the family is centered on the parent-child core, where old age is managed differently: we accompany and commit ourselves, but sometimes we entrust to others the care of the people concerned – I do not make any judgment of value in this regard. In any case, we have a collective responsibility in this matter. In the face of this evolution, the first priority is, of course, to find new ways to finance this support – this is the meaning of the second part of your question. This is an imperative of solidarity with the elderly as well as their families. You referred to the Day of Solidarity, or Solidarity, established in 2004. As everyone knows, this enables EHPADs to be empowered and to finance home maintenance through personalized self-help, which every elderly person receives and whose amount varies according to his or her resources and needs. In 2017, this funding amounted to €2.37 billion. The measure you have mentioned has been put on the table, but the Government has not taken a decision on it. So I am not going to tell you about the future, but I can tell you that the EUR 2.37 billion I have mentioned have been allocated entirely to priority needs to care for the elderly, to provide them with daily help and to allow the free choice of place of life. If an additional contribution were to be requested from the French, no one would imagine that we would not commit ourselves to directly dangling these new resources, whatever they may be, on the accompaniment of our elderly; Such moral commitment would be necessary. Public and private employers contribute 0.3% of their payroll. In return, employees can either work on a holiday, or give a day of RTT – a reduction in working time – or still split their additional working time by 7 hours over several days of the year. This financial commitment must be translated, in concrete terms, into a better accompaniment to ageing. It is important to recall the different levers used historically to finance expenditure related to dependency: they must be allocated to it, and this rule must never be derogated from. As you know, honourable Member, there are many avenues. The Government hopes that a societal debate will take place and that all avenues will be explored. In this respect, of course, we are faced with a national responsibility, which is called solidarity. I know that everyone on these benches will agree on their need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u16	Mr Olivier Dassault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u17	I heard your answer and took note of it, Secretary of State. Let me add a few words, in the circumstances that I am going through today: in the next reforms that you will carry out, remember that they were what we are today, and that they are what we will be tomorrow. Do not add to the pain of gradually seeing those who are loved leave the sad financial reality that is to be borne by those who remain.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u18	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor to put his question, No. 391, on medical demography in Orne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u19	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, my question concerns the medical demography in Orne, and in particular the increasingly worrying lack of doctors in the territory of the urban community of Alençon. Behind this technical concept is an increasingly worrying situation, which could lead to real drama in the years to come. Not a week goes by without an inhabitant asking me directly or by mail about the staggering shortage of doctors in our territories. This reality affects not only our countryside, but also the medium and large cities. In the urban community of Alençon, there are only thirty-two doctors left per 58,000 inhabitants, i.e. a generalist for 1,800 people. This figure is already worrying, but the situation will become even more complex in 2018, as three practitioners will stop their activity. Unfortunately, the situation will continue to worsen in the following years, with 25% of generalists still exercising although they are over the age of 65. At the same time, a study published in early May by the Ministry of Health's Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics showed an overall increase in the number of doctors but a stagnation in the number of general practitioners. Last January, we proposed a solution: to end the agreement of doctors settling in an already overfunded area, except in the event of retirement or cessation of the exercise. This was a response to the urgency of the situation, which was certainly not sufficient but had to be accompanied by an ambitious policy to put an end to the crisis. In our territories, we are trying to remedy this evil by, for example, opening general medical consultations in the hospital or allowing retired doctors to return to do some vacations. But these measures are not such as to compensate for the shortcomings. The issue of attractiveness is central. Mr Secretary of State, how can we attract doctors and ensure that they decide to settle in our territories for a long time? How to make the profession of general practitioner again attractive to the opportunities offered by specialization? Furthermore, I hope that the Alençon-Mamers inter-municipal hospital centre, which plays a pivotal role, will be supported in its investment projects aimed at improving its functioning. Finally, more broadly, what new breath can we give to our local hospitals to respond to this crisis, which rightly worries our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u20	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u21	Having also been a rural elected representative, in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, I know the stakes and fully understand the meaning of your question, Mr. However, as Stanislas Guerini has previously pointed out, medical desertification or the shortage of doctors is a problem which is now, alas, a problem everywhere in France, in both urban and rural areas. The first part of your question concerns the installation of general practitioners. How to make the installation attractive, to use your terms? Many Governments have been working on this issue for many years. The effects of the baby boom on both the installation of doctors and the ageing of the population are now reaching their peak. You have proposed a solution, but the Government believes that there is no one-size-fits-all solution. To put an end to the agreement of doctors settling in an area already overfunded except in the event of retirement or cessation of the exercise may appear to some extent to be a good solution, but, in essence, it would not guarantee the doctor's installation in a cared for territory. In reality, in practice, preventing installation at one location does not increase the attractiveness of another location. In other words, it is not by preventing doctors from settling on the coast that they will settle in rural areas. Other factors play a role in these choices and complicate the situation, such as the age of installation or the possibility of forming a family. For its part, the Government is proposing a paradigm shift: we now want to reason in terms of the medical time available to health professionals rather than in terms of the installation of doctors. We want to encourage the development of telemedicine and advanced practices, in order to better allocate medical time among health care professionals and reduce consultation times. The Social Security Financing Act for 2018 allows for the first time the remuneration of telemedicine interventions, and many initiatives are being taken today in the territories to develop it. We also want to strengthen cooperation between hospital and city health professionals. Finally, we must help young doctors to settle and older doctors to combine their employment and retirement, wherever possible and according to their choice. It is this range of solutions that will improve the system. As the Minister of Health has indicated, we are working in this direction, and if new proposals to supplement the scheme were to be made, the Government would obviously be attentive to it. You also asked me about the Alençon-Mamers intercommunal hospital. Recruitment problems arise in our public hospitals, and it is of course necessary to ask ourselves the question of the investments necessary for their development. As you know, the regional health agency – ARS – in Normandy has been supporting the Alençon-Mamers intercommunal hospital in a significant way for several years. I know that you yourself have been very vigilant on this point in your previous commitments and continue to be vigilant today. It is necessary to move forward on the subject. I would like to tell you that the SRA will continue to support the establishment as part of a strong priority of the projects, with the priorities being critical care unit and resuscitation, heavy hemodialysis centre, paediatrics and laboratory. All this must, of course, be done as part of an improvement in the organisation and in the search for efficiency, which are always indispensable, because the financial security of institutions is an objective that we must not neglect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u22	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u23	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your response to the hospital in Alençon-Mamers and for the Government's commitment to help it continue its vital investments. I asked you a more general question about general medicine, because we are facing a crisis. It's an alarm cry I'm making: some residents can't find a doctor! So they go to the emergency room, which is not satisfactory. I would like to reflect in detail on the role that could be given back to hospitals in the vicinity in relation to general medicine. This is a major issue for our territories. I would not like to see two Frances: the hypercentres, where we find everything, and the middle towns, the countryside and the suburbs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u24	Thank you, Mr. Pueyo...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u25	I wanted to make that alarm call. I know that you are very concerned about this important subject and I hope that you will provide us with specific answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u26	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u27	[[The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m. with Mr Sylvain Waserman in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u28	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u29	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to put his question, No. 393, on home help.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u30	Ms. Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, at the presentation of the Government's road map to addressing the challenge of ageing and loss of autonomy, the Minister of Solidarity and Health recalled the importance for older people of staying at home. This is in fact mostly their wish. Home-help services are major players in addressing this social challenge: to accompany every person who loses their autonomy, whether they are elderly or disabled, with respect for their choices, whether they live in the city or in the countryside. It is an indispensable community service, especially in rural areas, which also helps to break the isolation of people and creates social ties. Today, however, home help services face an unprecedented situation that results in great difficulties, particularly in recruiting and retaining staff. There are many reasons for this: it is a difficult job with fragmented interventions, part-time work, insufficient remuneration with a point value of the collective agreement not revalued since 2016, and insufficient kilometric compensation that does not take into account, in particular, the increase in fuels. Home help suffers from a lack of chronic funding which, in many cases, does not provide sufficient support for people. For the same financial reasons, this sector lacks attractiveness and struggles to attract the right profiles and recruit massively. However, given the demographic outlook and the expectations of seniors who want to live at home under the best conditions, this sector of activity is a carrier of future jobs. The current situation will become catastrophic. I measure it on a daily basis in my department of Mayenne through, for example, the ADMR – Aide à domicile in rural areas – which has 50 local associations, 3868 members, 690 volunteers, 1000 employees for 10643 beneficiaries and 952000 hours of benefits. I could also quote, still in my department, Aid'A Dom. Madam Secretary of State, home helpers are now on the brink of burn out. These women and men are discouraged, demotivated, while they do this job by passion and often by vocation. Therefore, my question is simple: what concrete and quick answers, especially financial ones, do you intend to give them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u31	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u32	Mr President, I should like to apologize for the absence of Agnes Buzyn, who is in the Council of Ministers this morning. As you said, staying at home is the choice of the majority of older people. It is with this in mind that the question of home care has its full place in the road map "Great Age and Autonomy" which was presented by the Minister of Solidarity and Health on May 30th. At the same time, the Minister called for a reflection on the evolution of the financing model of the personal services sector, in conjunction with the actors, federations representing the home support structures and departmental councils, in order to provide a lasting response to these difficulties. The aim of this work is to ensure the accessibility of services, but also to make the offer more readable and to better control the leftovers for people. These developments must be able to respond to the challenge of providing quality support to the elderly at home, while respecting their choice of life. The implementation of this new funding model will be accompanied by a EUR 100 million support envelope for the years 2019 and 2020. The question of the quality of accompaniment cannot be dealt with without taking into account the working conditions of the staff who work with the elderly on a day-to-day basis and ensure that our home care policies are maintained. The Quality of Life at Work Commission will continue its work in order to provide specific responses to home service professionals. In addition, a ministerial decree published in the Official Gazette of 5 June approved amendment No 36 of the collective agreement of the aid branch, the accompaniment of home care and services relating to the taking up of time and travel expenses. This amendment enables this national collective agreement to be brought into line with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, on the taking into account of the time and expenses of travel between two actual working sequences of a professional during the same day, whether or not the work sequences are consecutive. It will also significantly improve the purchasing power of professionals and the attractiveness of home help occupations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u33	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u34	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. I understand that you have taken note of the difficulties that arise. I sincerely hope that your remarks this morning will be followed by concrete effects, because this is a real issue: a social issue, an issue for the elderly or disabled concerned, an issue for their families, who use home helpers. Finally, it is an issue for our territories, especially for rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u35	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to raise her question, No. 364 on night nurses in residential institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u36	Mr President, in asking this question, I am making myself the voice of my colleague Michel Larive. In September 2017, Iborra and myself, the rapporteur of the "flash mission" on EHPADs, asked the Minister of Solidarity and Health about the need to impose a night nurse in EHPADs, and to change their funding accordingly. The Minister stated that $10 million would be spent on the funding of night nurse positions in these institutions. The residents of our EHPADs have been evolving for several years towards greater dependence and pathologies, and we know that they do not stop being ill at night! Caregivers, however, cannot replace nurses. The National Federation of Associations of Directors of Institutions and Services for the Elderly – FNADEPA – estimates that the presence of night nurses in EHPADs would allow a 37% reduction in the number of hospitalizations in emergencies, which we all know are overcrowded. A nurse from the riding of Mr. Larive, in Ariège, recounts the case of a lady who suffered from a large bronchial congestion in the middle of the night. He quickly intervened to aspirate secretions – a task that does not fall within the caretaker. This professional had to work this way all night, because the saturated emergencies could not take care of the unfortunate before the next morning. Without this night nurse, the lady would have drowned in her secretions and the outcome would have been fatal. The pooling of posts does not adequately address needs, particularly in rural areas where distances between EHPADs are high. To that of the Bariol, in Pamiers, an establishment with the only reinforced accommodation unit in the Ariège department, the relocation of the nursing post at night and its mutualization between several EHPADs worries staff and families, as this poses increased risks to residents. Should it be understood that the Minister's message has not been properly understood by regional health agencies – RHAs – and heads of institutions? When will the Government finally take into account the particularities of the rural world and what will it do to release the necessary funds to ensure the availability of night nurses in each EHPAD?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u39	Member of the European Parliament, EHPAD du Bariol, in Pamiers, has 130 permanent accommodation beds and 12 day-care beds for a total of 2.4 million euros. First of all, let us know that, for this year, in accordance with the Minister's commitments, which mobilized to ensure that no institution would see its resources reduced in 2018, the EHPAD budget was maintained. The guidelines set out by the Minister in the road map "Old age and autonomy" are ambitious. These include reducing preventable emergency hospitalizations, which have a negative impact on the health status of older people, and securing night care within EHPADs. In this plan, staff are expected to use a mutualized nurse between several institutions in the same territory via an on-site or telephone call-in. For example, €36 million will be spent in three years on the generalisation of this night nurse scheme. The Occitanie region benefits from €970,000 in 2018, which corresponds to 24 devices to deploy. As you mentioned, the ARS Occitanie has been funding night nurse calls for several EHPADs for several years. This experimental device is a success: it reduces the use of emergency hospitalization, which disorients patients, and greatly improves the continuity of EHPAD care. It is not an increased risk to all residents, on the contrary. A regional deployment will be launched as early as 2018, with calls for applications in each territory. Our ambition is to ensure a coherent territorial network, particularly in the Ariège department.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u40	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u41	Madam Secretary of State, this answer is insufficient. You assure me that funding for EHPADs will be kept afloat over the next few years, but I would remind you that a recent report has pointed to its inadequacy. Its maintenance therefore constitutes a minimum, which we cannot content ourselves with. The scheme to finance the presence of night nurses is limited to three years. Above all, the 36 million, an annual average of 12 million, will finance – listen carefully – only one night of mutualized nurse per month and per institution! Let's hope it falls on the night that all residents will fall ill at the same time! No, it's really not satisfactory. You said, Madam Secretary of State, that the Occitanie region is funding the presence of night nurses in the EHPADs and that this is a success. Of course! That is why we are keen on this measure, which has so many advantages for the elderly, including in terms of prevention. Anyone who hopes to get older wants to be able to benefit one day from the minimum of the presence of a nurse at night. In short, maintaining the current budget does not mean that the situation will gradually improve. Today, there is institutional abuse of both residents and caregivers in the EHPADs. We really need to act to help them. I repeat that your answer is very unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u42	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson, speaking on behalf of the Alpes-Maritime Food Bank, raised her question, No. 368.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u43	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Food Bank, in the Alpes-Maritimes, almost 130 volunteers took turns five days a week, fifty-two weeks a year, to run an organisation whose operation is very similar to that of an SME, with a daily presence of twenty-five to thirty people. In order to carry out its tasks of supporting food and combating food waste, the Food Bank collects food every day from several sources of supply. It obtains food free of charge from a number of sources: the European Union, via the European programme for aid to the most deprived, the State, through the national food aid programme, the large distribution, the agri-food industry and, of course, the private sector. In France, 4 million people make use of food aid each year. This figure, probably underestimated because many of our fellow citizens do not dare to admit that they are seeking such assistance, is steadily increasing from 2% to 3% per year. The number of families affected by the crisis and in need of food aid continues to grow. The new rules of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived – FEAD – require total free distribution of European foodstuffs. This principle, which cannot be applied by social grocery stores, prohibits the distribution of FEAD products by their chain. This is why the National Social Groceries Credit – CNES – was created, which addresses the ban on the distribution of European products by providing financial support to social groceries. To date, however, the Food Bank of the Alpes-Maritimes has still not received aid from CNES for 2018, which is essential for its proper functioning. On June 6, I exchanged with his president again. He explained to me that he had not been able to order dry products for the second half of 2018 due to lack of resources and that he would no longer have stock in early September. Therefore, I ask you to inform me of the date of the payment of CNES aid to the Food Bank of the Alpes-Maritimes for the 2018 financial year, and above all to reassure all food banks of the State's commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u45	As you have pointed out, food aid receives public funding through the European Union, the State and local and regional authorities, as well as private funding in the form of grants in kind and financial donations. The budget appropriations for food aid come from Action 14 of Programme 304 and from the European Fund for Aid to the Poorest. They are broken down between the appropriations made available under this fund – a European share and a national share – national credits for social groceries, deconcentrated allocations for services to support the local activity of food aid and subsidies paid to network-leading associations. Social and solidarity grocery stores are aimed at replacing the poor who go to these facilities as consumers, by providing them with self-service products against financial participation. As you mentioned, while, until 2013, these structures could benefit from the European programme to help the most deprived, the establishment of the European Fund, which requires the free provision of food, has led to a review of the way in which they are financed. This is why a specific envelope has been dedicated to the supply of social and solidarity groceries. The Fédération Française des banques alimentaires (Fédération française des banques alimentaires) receives €4.2 million in funding in 2018 to supply its network of social and solidarity grocery stores with food. The federation shall, on the basis of the needs expressed, allocate the budget envelope and allocate an allocation corresponding to a list and volume of products distributed. The federation made the choice to acquire these foodstuffs through a tender made by FranceAgriMer after determining a list of products, a number of warehouses to be delivered and delivery rates. The last deliveries of the 2017 market took place last March at the delivery points. For 2018, the contract will be published in the same period as last year with deliveries expected between November and March. I confirm that the Federation of Food Banks has just notified its endowment to the Food Bank of the Alpes-Maritimes. Thus, if the food bank faced particular operational difficulties and a shortage of products, the inter-network solidarity of food banks should come into play.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u46	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u47	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for this answer, which I think will reassure all the organizations that are helping the poorest. However, care should be taken to ensure that the various appropriations are paid earlier in the year, so as not to penalize these bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u48	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor to raise his question, No. 392, on the right to organize in the hospital public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u49	My question is addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health and deals with the manner in which the right to organize in the hospital public service is exercised at the time of the elections. As the texts currently stand, non-representative trade union organisations cannot enter hospital establishments and are therefore not in a position to draw up lists for the elections scheduled for the end of the year on 6 December 2018. Article 4 of Decree No. 2012-736 of 9 May 2012 allows these unions to hold an information meeting six weeks before polling day, i.e. during week 43. But given the closing date of the lists of electors, set this year at 23 October, this leaves them in practice only one or two days to find candidates. You will agree that the obstacle is particularly difficult to overcome. In fact, it is impossible for these unions to draw up lists and therefore to stand for election. It is a question of fairness that arises with regard to the treatment of the various unions. Therefore, in order to guarantee the diversity of trade unions and, if I may say so, a form of respiration in plurality, I ask whether it would not be advisable to loosen this time constraint in order to offer an additional period of time to all trade union organisations; This would allow them to enter the institutions to prepare for these elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u51	Member of the European Parliament, the Minister of Solidarity and Health thanks you for your question, which allows you to take stock of the professional elections in the hospital public service to be held on 6 December. Pluralism is a fundamental issue in the implementation of the electoral process, and all instructions given to heads of institutions and regional health agencies are part of this objective. These elections are organised in such a way that all trade union organisations can have the necessary information and are involved in the electoral process, even if they are not constituted in a number of institutions of the hospital civil service, provided that they fulfil conditions of seniority of at least two years and respect for republican values and independence. Thus, in accordance with the instructions issued by the Ministry's departments, the regional health agencies must set up regional monitoring committees bringing together all the trade union organisations as well as the partners of the various administrations concerned by the elections, with a first meeting by the end of June. The role of these regional committees is, inter alia, to highlight the particular difficulties that may arise in a particular department or institution. They are also intended to communicate the list of establishments, particularly the smallest ones, to trade unions. In the same spirit, the ministerial instructions strongly encourage institutions to set up local election monitoring committees, led by the head of establishment and involving all trade union organisations that can stand for election, including, of course, those which have not yet been represented in the establishment. Since 6 June, organizations wishing to set up a list have been able to campaign with information useful to make themselves known to staff. At the national level, the Ministry's departments hold regular meetings with representative trade union organizations at the national level and ensure that all the transparency and fairness necessary for the proper conduct of the electoral process are ensured. These national exchanges are aimed in particular at identifying and correcting any departmental or regional information gaps.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u52	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u53	Thank you for the explanation. I agree, of course, with the approach taken by the Minister, in particular the creation of these committees within the regional health agencies. However, it would seem useful to me to consider a correction of the decree of 9 May 2012. Indeed, I believe that a margin of one week or ten days before the date of submission of the lists would be necessary to enable all the trade union organisations to organise themselves properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u54	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, referred to his question No 389 on social security contributions due by legal persons with sporting objects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u55	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, I would like to draw your attention to the arrangements for fixing the base of social security contributions due from legal persons with sporting objects and associations of youth or popular education. Set up to take account of the special constraints imposed on players in sports clubs and youth or popular education associations, this scheme allows associations to calculate social security contributions on a flat-rate basis rather than on the actual remuneration of the employee. This results in a reduced amount of contributions and a higher actual remuneration of the intervenor, whose activity is most often complementary or occasional. Article 13 of the Social Security Financing Act 2015 provides, in its III, that the lump-sum contributions fixed by ministerial decree shall remain applicable until the publication of the decree provided for in article L. 242-4-4 of the Social Security Code and in default until 31 December 2015. However, since 1 January 2016, no decree has been issued and the flat-rate contribution bases no longer have a legal basis. The Fédération française des clubs omnisports seized the ministers concerned by two letters of December 2016 and January 2017. In response, in April 2017, the Minister of City, Youth and Sports stated that "the Government did not intend to allow this legal vacuum to continue" and that the decree for the application of the above-mentioned law "should be drawn up in the first half of 2017". More recently, on 7 August 2017, the Minister of Sports indicated that she had begun work with the Social Security Directorate to maintain the flat-rate bases and to put in place a similar mechanism, noting that a draft decree was being drafted. Therefore, can you tell us, Madam Secretary of State, what the deadline for drafting this decree will be? Your answer will reassure the sports and popular education associations, which are already under budgetary pressure in the name of the effort to reduce public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u57	Mr. MP, the Government is convinced of the need to encourage all players in the sports world to remain mobilized to support young people in sports practices. As you recalled, article 13 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2015 provides, on the one hand, that the flat-rate bases will be defined by decree, not by ministerial decree, and on the other hand that they will be capped. It is therefore not a question of abolishing them as a matter of principle. The law only requires that the new flat-rate bases be set in proportion to the income actually paid, and that they not be too far from it, so as not to create any significant distortion in the level of the levy. The decree will lay down the conditions for applying this rule to the flat-rate bases maintained. This is fundamental, since the validation of the entitlement to social benefits of the persons concerned is indexed on these flat-rate bases. I confirm to you, as has already been written, that the decree, currently being drafted, will maintain the flat-rate base for persons engaged in an activity related to the teaching or practice of a sport within an approved youth or popular education association, an approved federation or an affiliated group, or on behalf of an organiser of sports events. However, the ceiling on the contribution base will have to be applied to 70% of the actual remuneration where it is greater than or equal to 1.5 times the value of the social security ceiling in relation to working time, in accordance with the letter of the Act – in this case, article L. 242-4-4 of the Social Security Code. The decree will specify the manner in which this ceiling is to be applied. I cannot give you any further details today on the exact date of publication of the decree. In the meantime, the flat-rate base established by the Decree of 27 July 1994 must continue to be applied. The Central Agency of Social Security Agencies has been instructed not to make any adjustments. This clarification seems important to me and is likely to ensure the proper application of the 1994 Order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u58	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u59	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for these clarifications on the content of the decree being drafted as well as on the procedure to be followed for associations pending the publication of this decree. I must encourage the Government to publish it as soon as possible in order to continue to reassure and secure the associations concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u60	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor to put his question, No 387 on complementary local currency securities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u61	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to draw your attention to the interest of complementary local currency securities – TMLC – and the need to facilitate their functioning. Fostering the growth of the TMLCs is also supporting the development of short circuits and forming part of a strong economic policy in favour of the territories. As part of their development and in accordance with the form and format of these currencies, derogations from the approval of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the ACPR – have been defined in Articles L. 511-7, L. 521-3 and L. 525-5 of the Monetary and Financial Code, limiting their use to a "limited network accepting these means of payment or for a limited range of goods or services". De facto, all users, including those who carry them and customers who wish to pay with this currency, are obliged to adhere to the structure, often associative, which implements this scheme. This huge hindrance to the deployment of local currencies seems inappropriate, more so in comparison with devices such as food security and other media facilitating trade and directing the purpose of the purchase. In addition, in order to promote the circulation of these complementary local currencies, government revenue administrators have the possibility of cashing TMLCs in payment of benefits issued by local authorities who have agreed to receive part of their non-tax revenue in such a currency. Nevertheless, although the administrators play a major role in the circular economy of the territories, they are not allowed to pay their local suppliers using TMLC, which is not part of the eligible payment instruments listed in Article 2 of the Order of 24 December 2012. Finally, in order to finance their development, many associations managing and deploying TMLC have called for the administration of public finances to benefit from the sponsorship scheme and thus be able to issue tax receipts to their donors on the basis of articles 200 and 238 of the General Tax Code. The assessment of the purpose of these associations and the characteristics of their activities varies from department to department, and requests for tax rescripts have had divergent outcomes. In some cases, the strict reading only recognizes the general interest of these associations in facilitating a social and solidarity economy, which is necessary for local and sustainable development. So, Madam Secretary of State, do you intend to relax the above-mentioned obstacles, in order to promote the social and solidarity economy, the short circuits and the development of local networks, within the framework of a strong economic policy of the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u63	Mr President, you have referred to the rules that apply to complementary local currencies, which are designed to ensure confidence in these securities and in the structures that issue and manage them, in order to facilitate their development. In this context, I would like to make a number of comments. First, the direct use of a local currency to pay for public expenditure is not permitted by regulation. However, a community may use the civilian mandate mechanism to provide this service. Its operation is simple: in order to receive payments in local currency securities, users must authorize the association to receive the funds on their behalf, and the public accountant can then pay the funds to the association which is responsible for handing them over to its users. This mechanism is supported by a number of communities. Secondly, there is no obligation for users wishing to use these local currency securities to adhere to the structure that issues and manages them. On the other hand, if the structure wishes to benefit from the exemption that exists to offer these services without being subject to the framework that derives from the qualifications provided for in the monetary and financial code, it must offer the services in a "limited network of acceptors" or in a "limited range of goods or services", which is the case-by-case assessment of the CPRA. With regard to the tax aspect of your question, donations and payments made by individuals or companies to works or bodies meeting a condition of general interest and pursuing an object of a character defined by law – philanthropic, educational, scientific, etc., are entitled to a tax reduction. These donations and payments must be made without consideration or with a clearly disproportionate consideration for the donations made. Finally, the condition of general interest implies that the organization receiving the donations is not of a lucrative nature, that its management is disinterested and that it does not operate for the benefit of a limited circle of persons. As bodies managing complementary local currency securities have very different legal structures, it cannot be ruled out that some do not meet the conditions for recognition of general interest. It is therefore not possible to define a priori a response that would apply uniformly to all these bodies. In particular, the assessment of the general interest criteria is a matter of fact and can only result from the situation of each of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u64	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to put his question, No. 365, on the financing of active solidarity income in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u65	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, according to the data of the Assembly of the French Departments, the average share of the individual solidarity allowances – AIS – in the operating expenses of the departments amounts to 32% at national level, compared to 53% for the Department of La Réunion, where the income of active solidarity – RSA – represents more than 80% of these expenses. The same report notes that ISAs have increased by 30 per cent in the hexagon in six years, while ISAs have increased by 40 per cent in Reunion. This is not without consequences for the rest of the burden, whose per capita amount in our department is out of standard compared to the national average, since it reaches about 150 euros per inhabitant compared to 50 euros in hexagon. This strong increase reinforces its destabilizing effect on the balance of the departmental council's budget. The State has set up various solidarity funds and exceptional support funds for several years, but according to the elected representatives of La Réunion, their sustainability is not achieved. So, Madam Secretary of State, do you intend to give a definitive answer to this situation, which must be a matter of national solidarity and therefore of the direct responsibility of the State? Thus, two scenarios can be considered: partial recentralisation, which would consist of additional compensation paid by the State to the departments, which continue to allocate the AIS on behalf of the State; or a total recentralisation in which the State would directly assume the financial burden of individual solidarity allowances. This State support for the financing of the RSA should be conditional on the departments' commitment to strengthen the support of its beneficiaries towards integration and employment. In any event, a preliminary correction of the existing imbalances is necessary if we do not want to penalise the right holders and the population in general. The Ultramarines face serious problems of unemployment, insecurity, poverty, health and well-being. Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for answering precisely my trans-party question, which is of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u67	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u68	The question of the financing and management of individual solidarity allowances, including income from active solidarity, remains a major concern of the Government in view of the difficulties encountered by some departments in financing these expenses. The State shall ensure that the RSA is compensated in accordance with the constitutional principles laid down to accompany the new charges resulting from a transfer of jurisdiction. In order to guarantee the financing of active solidarity income, the sum of the two fractions of the domestic consumption tax on energy products allocated to the Department of La Réunion, corresponding to a guaranteed amount for the community, now stands at around 405 million euros. The community also received $24 million from the departmental mobilization fund for integration in 2017. In 2018, the Department of La Réunion received EUR 30 million under the peregrated compensation scheme, designed to compensate for the costs caused by the exceptional revaluations of the flat-rate amount of the RSA base decided since 2013. The use of the increase in the ceiling rate of transfer fees for consideration, from 3.8 per cent to 4.5 per cent, provided additional resources of 8 million in 2016 and 9 million in 2017. Finally, a solidarity fund for departments has been implemented in order to reduce the inequalities between departments in terms of remaining per capita expenses for AIS. The Meeting received close to €7 million under this fund in 2016 and €10 million in 2017. As you have mentioned, there are still concerns and negotiations are under way between the Government and the Assembly of the French Departments on the establishment of a fund to stabilize the "over-residence burden" for the most difficult departments. This fund could cover all three AIS – the RSA, the personalized autonomy allowance and the disability compensation benefit. It could also be accompanied by a strengthening of horizontal equalization, in order to improve solidarity in favour of the less favoured departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u69	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u70	I understand, Madam Secretary of State, that there are currently negotiations on the creation of a fund dedicated to the remainder of the budget and on the strengthening of equalization within the framework of national solidarity, but some departments are experiencing an extraordinary social situation. In Réunion, for example, almost half of the population – nearly 400,000 of the island's 800,000 inhabitants – lives below the poverty line. The unemployment rate is extremely high, youth is in difficulty and the papy boom replaced the baby boom of the 1960s and 1970s. This accelerated ageing of the Réunion population creates many problems, including the impossibility for the poorest people to access services such as those of residential institutions for dependent elderly persons, given that, owing to poverty and insecurity, part of the population is ageing very badly and falling rapidly, and sometimes very young, in a situation of dependency. In exceptional situations, exceptional measures! I expect precise answers and hope that the negotiations will lead to solutions for the well-being of the ultramarine populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u71	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u72	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 374, on the digital divide and the dematerialization of administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u73	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, I know how important the transformation of administrations is, both for improving public services and the working environment of public servants and for controlling public expenditure. This transformation, which involves the dematerialisation of services, is already operational with regard, for example, to obtaining a vehicle's grey card. I met a few days ago, in my permanent office at Évreux, a citizen who told me of his difficulties in obtaining a grey card, for a vehicle he had bought from an individual. This man didn't have the internet. This is not an isolated case, as you know: the digital divide is still a reality in many parts of the territory; Some people, especially the elderly, do not know how to use a computer; Others argue that it is abnormal to have to pay for internet access to access public services. Admittedly, the prefectures have set up access points to enable these procedures to be carried out. Often driven by young people on civic service, these few terminals cause long queues. And when users have been sufficiently patient to reach the said limit, they are faced with another difficulty. Indeed, the creation of a user account for the dematerialized services platform requires the holder of an email address; It is impossible to carry out any approach without an address, so that the facilitators are obliged to inform their own address in order to initiate the steps. Town halls have also tried to accompany their citizens, but they are faced with the same problem: there is no specific access to the platform for local authorities, and municipal officials are forced to provide their personal details. There is also the question of the liability of agents in the event of an error. This example, Madam Secretary of State, illustrates the difficulty of dematerializing public services without leaving a part of the population at the side of the road. I would not want the transformation of administrations to lead to the creation of a divide within users and to prevent unconnected people from carrying out their administrative procedures. Madam Secretary of State, in a principle of equal access to State services, is there an alternative, lasting and effective solution to enable unconnected users to carry out their administrative procedures?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u74	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u75	Mr President, you are right, the accessibility of public services is at the heart of Public Action 2022. The President of the Republic has pledged that all public services – outside the issuance of securities – will be available online by 2022, and €4.4 billion of funding is provided under the major investment plan for this purpose. Our ambition is to make this experience as comfortable, efficient and as simple as possible for the user, and we will be particularly vigilant that this revolution is not to the detriment of certain audiences, especially the least favoured. Several steps have already been taken in this direction. On the one hand, the Government is accelerating the opening of service houses to the public. More than 1200 of these houses have already been opened. They are intended to become privileged interfaces between users and the administration, by issuing, in a single place, a personalized accompaniment offer in the approaches of daily life – social assistance and benefits, employment, integration, retirement, energy... In addition, the Digital Agency has recently launched a mission on the digital society, whose core is digital inclusion for the least educated. For example, the mission launched a co-operative to organize the structuring of digital mediation actors. It is experimenting with a digital culture cheque system, the aim of which is to finance the taking over of users for the realization of these online approaches in labeled places, in order to promote their autonomy. These various initiatives demonstrate the Government's commitment to rethink the overall accessibility of public services so that everyone can easily and in appropriate formats access the administrative procedures that concern him/her. I thank you for the concrete examples you have given to help this facilitation work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u76	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u77	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. I take advantage of this question to bounce back on a government promise, that of France's very high-speed plan, which aims to cover most of the territory by 2022. I stress the need to fulfil this promise, particularly in rural areas. In metropolitan areas, in medium-sized cities and in villages, there is a strong expectation of very high-speed internet connection. There are also high expectations for mobile telephony. On this issue, we will be judged – collectively – in a rather binary way by our fellow citizens. Indeed, at the end of the legislature, they will know whether or not they can connect with their mobile phone. The new connections are subject to great expectations. I hope that the Government will keep its promises on schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u78	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor to put her question, No. 370, on the telephone lock-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u79	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, I would like to draw your attention to the untimely and intrusive telephone call, a real scourge that poisons the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Article L. 223-1 of the Consumer Code, derived from article 9 of the law of 17 March 2014 on consumption, prohibits a professional, under penalty of a fine, from approaching by telephone, directly or through a third party acting on his behalf, a consumer on the list of opposition to the "Bloctel" telephone stall with which he does not have a pre-existing contractual relationship. Since the entry into force of these provisions, on 1 June 2016, despite the registration of millions of consumers in the Blockel register, despite the numerous checks carried out by the services of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – and the subsequent prosecutions, and despite the application of administrative sanctions of up to €75,000 fine for a legal person, citizens still complain of being very regularly bothered by commercials on the telephone, on their fixed and mobile lines, at any time of the day and in the evening. These frequent disturbances are tantamount to harassment. They affect all French and destabilize particularly the most fragile and the oldest. After two years of application of the law, it must be noted that the effectiveness of the above-mentioned system is not on the table. Most of the professionals who use telephone stalling do not comply with their legal obligations. More dissuasive measures must be implemented. More controls and tougher sanctions seem desirable. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, indicate the specific measures you are planning to take to stop these acts and to ensure that citizens cease being the helpless target of these unbearable practices?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u80	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u81	Madam Member, you are right: for many of our fellow citizens, repeated commercial calls at any time of the day are a real nuisance. This is why the Consumer Code provides that consumers can register free of charge on a list of oppositions to the standstill. Opened on 1 June 2016, the Blockel register immediately aroused the enthusiasm of consumers. Nearly 4 million people are currently registered. In this system, companies must send their customer files to Blockel in order to have protected telephone numbers removed. Over the past two years, 180,000 customer files have been processed, which has prevented registered consumers, on average, from making six telephone calls per week. However, I am aware that the scheme does not yet satisfy too many consumers. This is due to the fact that not all professionals play the game: only 800 of them have taken the necessary steps. This situation requires a repressive response. Over the past two years, more than 600 controls have been carried out by the services of the DGCCRF, 200 of which have been carried out since January 1, 2018. Following these checks, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention issued 90 fines and 203 warnings or compliance orders. Furthermore, these investigations have also shown that a large number of professionals have put in place fraudulent techniques to circumvent the system and complicate controls. A proposal for a law to strengthen consumer rights in the area of telephone marketing has been placed on the agenda of the National Assembly and will be discussed at the sitting on 21 June. The Government will consider the proposed provisions, on the understanding that some issues do not appear to be of a legislative nature. There is also a need to work towards the development of a repressive response, by improving investigative techniques and by strengthening and extending the penalties involved, while clarifying exceptions to the system. Furthermore, stricter regulation of identifiers should be carried out by ARCEP – Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts. The Government intends to support certain provisions of the bill, including the improvement of consumer information on the identity of the person on whose behalf a telephone call is made. We will work on these points, improve the existing arrangements and consider additional provisions that could strengthen them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u82	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for attending this session. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u83	[[The sitting was suspended at 10.50 a.m. and resumed at 10.55 a.m. with Yves Jégo in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u84	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u85	The next speaker is Mr Jean Terlier, to put his question, No. 369, concerning half-way between widows of veterans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u86	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, allow me to draw your attention to the particular fiscal situation of veterans' widows, and above all to the inequality resulting from the double condition of the deceased's age and the widow's age in the transmission of the half-tax share. Article 195 (1) of the General Tax Code provides that widows whose spouses were holders of the combatant's card or of a pension granted under the provisions of the Code of Military Disability Pensions and of war victims shall be entitled to half a tax for the purpose of determining their taxable income. However, in order to claim this tax advantage, two conditions are necessary. First, the widow must justify having reached the age of 74 on December 31 of the tax year, so that she is in her seventy-fifth year when she seeks the benefit of the tax half-share. Second, the deceased, the original owner of the deceased, must have applied for the benefit of the deceased and have obtained the right to the benefit of the deceased. The combatant must have died no earlier than one year after 31 December of his seventy-fourth year. This combination of conditions leads to inequality between widows. Indeed, the attribution of the tax advantage does not result from the individual qualities but depends on the date of widowhood. Its benefit depends above all on the age at which these wives lose their spouse, who takes precedence over any other consideration. Whatever their age, what matters is the anniversary of their husband's death. Thus, those whose husbands have died too young under the legislative provisions – before their 75th birthday – permanently lose the benefit of the tax advantage, whereas those whose husbands have celebrated their 75th birthday will simply have to wait to meet the condition relating to their age. Madam Minister, you are aware of the incomprehensions of this situation among the representatives of the FNACA – the National Federation of Veterans in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia – including those of the Tarn department, where I am elected. They have alerted us for many years about this distortion of tax treatment, which results from the consideration of the date of death of the fighter, even though this sine qua non is insurmountable and not attributable to widows. I would also like to know your opinion, Madam Secretary of State, on the removal of the double condition. At the very least, can you indicate what measures the Government could implement to reduce this tax gap unevenly borne by the widows of our veterans?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u87	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u88	Mr. Member, you know the Government's commitment to the recognition and right to reparation of the fighting world. We have just announced that we will put an end to an injustice that has gone through several decades, by assigning the combatant's map to the contingent's callers deployed in Algeria between 1962 and 1964. With regard to the half-tax portion of your question, let me remind you of the current rule. The benefit of half a tax is allocated to the holders of the combatant's card – therefore to the veterans themselves – and to the holders of a pension under the Code of Military Disability Pensions and War Victims, provided that they are over 74 years of age. This benefit is extended to their surviving spouse if he is also over 74 years of age, provided that the holder of the fighter card has been able to benefit from it himself – as this benefit is intended for the veteran himself. Thus, in the event that the veteran dies before his seventy-fourth year, his spouse does not benefit from the tax half-share. For your perfect information, I add that this half-share represented in 2017 a tax expenditure of 520 million euros. At the plenary meeting of the working groups that considered all the demands of the fighting world, I informed the associations that the Government did not wish to accede to this request. We are very attentive to the fate of the widows and widowers of the veterans; But you will agree with me that the Government cannot accept a request that would be to provide a surviving spouse with a measure that the veteran himself could not benefit from during his lifetime. Be assured that I am making every effort to accompany our veterans and their families, and especially widows, especially through the National War Veterans' and War Victims' Office. But in this case it is still a decision of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u89	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u90	Thank you for that very clear answer, Madam Secretary of State, even if it is not in my view. You recalled the importance of the tax expenditure. There is a disparity, everyone agrees, but other arrangements will certainly allow the widows of our veterans to continue to live in dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u91	Mrs Bérangère Couillard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question No. 376 concerning the training of Rafale's foreign pilots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u92	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, I would like to ask you about the training of foreign pilots of Rafale aircraft that will take place very soon in Gironde. The effectiveness of the Rafale is recognized worldwide: the flagship of our economy, it generates 7,000 direct and indirect jobs. We can only welcome the sale of several of these devices to India and Egypt. It should be noted, however, that the training of these foreign pilots will be carried out on the air base of Mérignac and will result in noise nuisances for the inhabitants of neighbouring cities such as Cestas or Pessac. Actual measures have been taken to minimize noise nuisances, whether through pilot training dates, scheduled schedules or planned manoeuvres. Concertations were held; the various local and national actors have been able to reassure the inhabitants. I also exchanged with the services of the Gironde prefecture, who informed me of the measures taken and the follow-up which will be put in place during this period. However, many people wonder about the exceptional nature of these formations. Could you, Madam Secretary of State, confirm to us the exceptional nature of these formations and their limitation in time?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u93	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u94	As you have said, the Rafale contracts reflect the excellence of know-how in the military aviation sector. They benefit directly from economic activity and employment in your department. Dassault Aviation has created a training centre for foreign pilots on Rafale within its facilities at Bordeaux airport. This location is the result of an industrial choice: no contribution from the armies was requested. The training program is expected to begin in April 2019 and continue until January 2021, about twenty-two months. During this period, every effort will be made to minimize the environmental impact, particularly with regard to noise problems. Some lowering measures are in place. In particular, a significant part of the air activity, including almost all night flights, will be carried out from Istres. Training will be limited to the strict necessary in well-defined slots, and with short beaches, in particular by avoiding night flights, in order to minimize the inconveniences for the population in general and for residents in particular. This is a private activity, which is the responsibility of Dassault, with Qatari and then Indian aircraft. As the Air Force is neither the main contractor nor the operator of the Bordeaux aviation platform, it has no responsibility for the training of foreign crews planned in Bordeaux. However, it will be able to assist, in particular in the use of air training areas and the monitoring of missions. These training programmes should therefore, I repeat, last twenty-two months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u95	Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u96	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u97	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 366, on the reform of the recruitment of teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u98	My question is for the Minister of National Education, who recently announced, on the occasion of the release of his book, that future teachers would soon be recruited through qualifying tests at the end of the third year of the L3 licence. Perhaps he knows that all the representatives of the higher schools of faculty and education – ESPE – are standing up against this measure which could lead to questioning the status of trainee teachers. If eligibility is disconnected from admission, students who do not hold the competition will not be eligible for trainee status. The new trainees will therefore move from the current remuneration of 1400 euros per month to a remuneration of 400 euros in the first year of the master's degree and 900 euros in the second year. It is important to point out that 54% of candidates are now undergoing vocational retraining. The Minister defends this as a way of fluidizing the public service by diversifying teacher profiles. But we can see that it will add insecurity and amputate the training of a large number of candidates. We consider that this competition at the end of L3 would only be possible if it were followed, for both degrees, by two years of actual training, under the status of pupil teacher entitled to a real salary. If this were not the case, it would be the introduction into national education of the logic of lowering the cost of labour. And this would only complete the process of defunctionalisation of national education, which is unfortunately already under way. The minister likes to advocate trust in the school: the teaching staff would like to know, and has the right to know, what the timing of this reform will be and what method of consultation will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u99	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u100	Madam Member, I apologize to Mr Blanquer, who is present at the Council of Ministers and who has asked me to answer you. The two ministries in charge of this matter, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, agree on the objective of improving teacher training, with the aim of raising pupils' academic skills. Five years after their implementation, it is natural to assess the consequences of the changes made following the law of 8 July 2013 on guidance and programming for the re-foundation of the school of the Republic, which introduced the organization of the initial training of teachers within the framework of a national master's degree dedicated to the teaching, education and training professions, and entrusted its implementation to ESPE, the components of universities. Building the school of trust means recruiting teachers capable of embodying and transmitting republican values as the knowledge that is the condition for the success of our students. Materization sets a consistent level of requirement that can be achieved in different ways. The adaptation of initial teacher training involves combining the constraints of the employing State with those related to the training mechanism under the academic framework leading to the national master's degree. The Directorates-General for School Education, Human Resources and Higher Education have therefore undertaken joint work, in conjunction with the Conference of University Presidents – CPU – and the ESPE network, in order to meet these expectations. At the same time, a mission has just been entrusted to Mrs Ronzeau, who belongs to the General Inspectorate of the Administration of National Education and Research, and to Mr Saint-Girons, former President and President of the CPU. It will consider possible changes to initial training and continuing professional development at entry into the teaching profession. In this context, given the level of demand in terms of the quality of training and the expected support of ESPEs, this mission will also question how the vocational schools which ESPEs should be meet the employer's need, with a view to continuously improving teacher training. The various actors must seek to achieve the objective shared by all, in particular by easing the structures to put all the energies at the service of the acquisition of the skills of future teachers. All the ongoing reflections will translate, if necessary, into an evolution of the regulatory texts for a renewed implementation of the training and ESPE from the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u101	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u102	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this fairly precise answer, which provides at least a start on the timetable. If a mission is entrusted to experts, which can be a good thing, I am still waiting on the method of consultation: the teaching staff does not seem to be taken into consideration today. All those who are teaching in ESPE today, like the Government, want a better level of skills, and are also campaigning for a pre-recruitment – but this cannot be done by lowering the cost of work and breaking, like so many other government measures, the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u103	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor to raise her question, No. 378, concerning the recruitment of Japanese teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u104	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, this year we celebrate 160 years of diplomatic relations between France and Japan. Starting in June, a series of cultural events on the theme "Japanisms 2018: Souls in Resonance" will take place in France to honour the Franco-Japanese diplomatic and cultural tradition. Our two countries are linked by an exceptional partnership, with intense business and academic relations. Many young French people make the choice to learn the Japanese language, thus making this partnership live, and more would like to do so. To meet this growing demand and drive this academic network, the Japanese CAPES was created last year, after many years of negotiations, following an inter-ministerial agreement between the Japanese and French ministers of national education. Today, the teaching of Japanese in secondary education is carried out by 90 teachers whose profiles are very different: some 20 are aggregated or certified and the other 70 are individual contractors or contract workers, often without any pedagogical training or knowledge of the French educational system and its requirements. The creation of CAPES had to respond to this situation and ensure quality education, with CAPES remaining complementary to aggregation. However, the recruitment competitions for Japanese teachers are in a dramatic situation. This year, the Ministry of Higher Education decided not to open the competition for external aggregation of Japanese. However, the associate teachers of secondary education are involved with the ministry in the quality of teaching. For CAPES, open positions increased from three in 2017 to one in 2018. Thus, even though the demand for Japanese is high and the existing supply of Japanese is insufficient, this year there will be only one open Japanese teacher position. This is far below the expectations of students, teachers and even the Japanese Embassy in France for academic relations between our two countries. Madam Secretary of State, how can we maintain a high-quality apprenticeship for our students and high school students, whose demand is increasing, while we lack trained teachers and pedagogues and the openings of positions in the competitions are uncertain, pushing aspirants of Japanese teachers to flee teaching?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u105	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u106	Madam Member, the Ministry of National Education is committed to the development of Japanese education. In this context, this teaching is given the greatest attention in the academies concerned. Until 2017, the external Japanese CAPES did not exist because the dispersion of Japanese language teaching in the country and the insufficient number of students in this discipline would have led to the installation of full-time teachers in services on an incomplete basis. The creation of the Japanese CAPES has made it possible to better meet the demand for qualified teachers for this language, which is experiencing a strong enthusiasm among students in colleges and high schools, whose numbers have been increasing steadily since the mid-1990s. However, with regard to the volume of posts offered for the 2018 session, in an overall context of a decrease in second degree posts, it was arbitrated not to open a position to external aggregation and to open a post to the external CAPES, with the possibility of using the supplementary list, and two posts to the reserved competition. It should be noted that the policy of recruitment of second-level teachers in the public sector is subject to an assessment every year. The aim is to determine the size of the number of positions offered for recruitment for the different competitions between each discipline according to several indicators: the overall volume of positions offered, the forecasts of departure into the discipline, the presence of disciplinary overstaffing, the evolution of teaching hours, the demands of the academies for each discipline, and of course the evolution of the number of students. Japan had thirty-five full-time equivalent teachers in October 2017, a sharp increase since 2013, with twenty-four positions offered, eight times as many as the number of retirements found in the same period. Finally, the situation of Japanese will be the subject of a new evaluation for the 2019 session of the competitions that will open. For the time being, it is envisaged to open the aggregation and external CAPES in Japanese..
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u107	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u108	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for that specific answer. However, Japanese education is a highly strategic issue due to the continued increase in the number of Japanese tourists each year and our bilateral relations with Japan. I would like to take this opportunity to express my regret at the fact that the decree of 15 February 2018 removed Japanese from the list of modern languages taught in BTS Hotels and Catering. This surprises me and I have no doubt that you will study this case carefully because I fear that it is also linked to the obvious lack of teachers. While the training offer existed, as well as growing job opportunities, it is a pity to delete this proposal at the level of professional BTS.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u109	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 385, concerning insults against the inhabitants, traditions and cultures of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u110	I would like to draw the attention of Mrs La Garde des Seales to the proliferation of insults against the inhabitants, traditions and cultures of the territories that make up France. A bill by one of my colleagues tends to go this way, but I fear that it will maintain the concept of discrimination rather than combat it. The solution would not be so much to add the notion of "territory" or "geography" in the penal code, when it comes to insults in the press, as to tackle the root of the problem: how can we tolerate in 2018 that individuals, regardless of their origins, are publicly attacked and insulted in the press and on the internet and on social networks? Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, the advent of social networks has led to a surge of hatred in our society and it is now important to provide for sanctions, but also and above all to do prevention. All the territories of France are victims, mockery, insults aimed at origins and traditions are everywhere in the press and on the Internet. I am pleased, Madam Secretary of State, that you are the one responsible for answering this question, because we are both from territories with a strong identity, where people have accents, customs and traditions. In the global and national climate we know, there is an urgent need to resuscitate the nation, to ensure respect for and preservation of our regional specificities, which make France rich and contribute to its spread, without inflaming the situation by sanctifying the concept of discrimination. Do we still have to legislate to remedy these unbearable outrages?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u111	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u112	Mr President, I should like to apologize for the absence of Mrs La Garde des Seales, who has been retained in the Council of Ministers. The fight against all hate speech is a priority of the Ministry of Justice and must be a priority for all of us, regardless of its edge. French legislation has gradually evolved in the direction of increased repression and facilitation following several legislative reforms in the field of press law, the most recent of which is the equality and citizenship law of 27 January 2017. If the case law considers that insults against a group of persons on account of their belonging to a territory do not fall within the provisions of article 33, paragraph 3, of the Press Law on the punishment of discriminatory public insults, particularly on account of their origin, such comments, even in the absence of specific criminality, are reprehensible to the visa of paragraph 2 of the same article on public insults committed against individuals. In addition, the development of the Internet, which has become a major vehicle for public expression, has led to the adoption of a legislative framework for the operation of online communication services. Since the Law on Trust in the Digital Economy of 21 June 2004, the civil or criminal liability of the host may be incurred in the event that, having in fact been aware of illegal information, he has not acted promptly to withdraw it or to make it inaccessible. A procedure for the notification of manifestly unlawful content by persons who consider that they have suffered damage as a result of such content is thus provided for. These measures are sometimes difficult to implement, but they do exist. The Ministry of Justice also continues to work towards better accountability of all technical Internet providers and more systematic repression. It is also working with many other ministries to implement the national plan to combat racism and anti-Semitism, one of which is the fight against hate on the Internet. The custody of the seals will be attentive to the conclusions of the mission entrusted to Mrs Avia and Messrs. Taïeb and Amelal, on the fight against racism and anti-Semitism. Their recommendations, expected for next month, will no doubt be very useful in the area you mentioned, seeking to improve in general the fight against hatred on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u113	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u114	You stressed the difficulty of taking such measures. I hope that when the reports are read, justice will be more inclined to do its job, even if it is complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u115	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to raise her question, No. 394 concerning the Land Court of French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u116	This question is addressed to Mrs. Custody of Seals. French Polynesia, an overseas community governed by article 74 of the Constitution and thus having its own powers, has been waiting for the creation of a land court for ten years – knowing that justice remains a sovereign competence of the State. In 2014, a national organic law provided for the establishment of this land court. It took three years for a decree to lay down, in 2017, the organizational and operational arrangements necessary for its effective installation. Meanwhile, from 2015, the guard of the seals of the time had signed an objective contract by providing Papeete's courthouse with additional resources, with two magistrates. The 2017 decree organized the designation, replacement and compensation of assessors and confirmed the separate sections. At the same time, a particular building was built to accommodate the land court. So it can be said that the situation is moving well forward. However, the target contract is three-year and is due to end in October 2018. We would like the Government to confirm the sustainability of the announced resources. Indeed, the stock of folders to be resolved is very important. As of May 1, 2018, there are 1253 files related to the land issue. If, at national level, the removal of indivision is normally done at the notary's, in Polynesia, 80% of the cases are dealt with in litigation, not amicably. This land court is therefore of crucial importance so that we can move forward with issues of exit from indivision. We must sustain these means, which, for the time being, do not guarantee us that they will be the subject of a new convention, a three-year minimum, to guarantee the effectiveness of this land court.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u117	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u118	Madam Member, I will try to reassure you. The Polynesian Land Court took office on 1 December 2017, in accordance with the commitments made by the Ministry of Justice. Specifically with regard to human resources, the Land Court is a composition of the Court of First Instance of Papeete, chaired by a professional magistrate assisted by two lay assessors. In order to enable the three sections of the land court to function properly, a target contract was signed on 9 January 2015 to clear the inventory of the court's land cases. The strength of the court has been strengthened by an overnumber of two judges recruited after specific calls for applications. A judge was installed on 1 September 2015 and a vice-president on 1 January 2017. As the target contract resulted in an increase in the litigation of the lands on appeal, an additional adviser was appointed on 1 September 2017. If the target contract expires in October, the two supernumerary posts in the land court will remain filled. Indeed, the services of the Ministry of Justice will continue to ensure that the entire seat of the court of first instance is maintained and that the posts assigned to the land court are filled in the context of profiled applications, in order to ensure the functioning of the land court. With regard to the position of supernumerary adviser, the Court of Appeal has benefited from the creation of a position of vice-president, so that the position of supernumerary officer is in fact long-term. I can assure you that the Ministry of Justice will continue to pay particular attention to the situation of the French Polynesian land court, which is important for the functioning of your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u119	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u120	Thank you for the accuracy of your answer, Madam Secretary of State. We would like a new three-year or even five-year convention to be signed, in order to ensure the sustainability of these means.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u121	Mr Alain Perea, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 377, on day-to-day security in Narbonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u122	Security is one of the primary tasks of the State, to which the Government is firmly responding. In my department of Aude affected by the Trebes attacks, we know the strength and meaning of this commitment. But beyond that, the President of the Republic has also committed himself to strengthening the "security of everyday life". The Government has implemented this political will without delay. However, I note, at least in Occitanie, that this plan concentrates its efforts on the metropolized areas. Yet the figures, but above all the elucidated cases, show that crime is mobile. The facts do not necessarily take place in the offender's cities of residence, where they know they are being monitored. In my constituency of Narbonne, this mobility is an established fact, to which an influx of tourists is becoming increasingly distributed throughout the year. This imperative need for special attention is recognised up to the Central Directorate of Public Security, which requires that the units of engagement on Narbonne have at least three personnel. The issue of daily safety concerns the entire territory and in particular the medium-sized cities. It is thus as important in Narbonne as in Toulouse and Montpellier, on different scales but in a requirement of our fellow citizens comparable. I visited the Narbonne police station. There is no word to describe this building as another time. Just a few days ago, an individual would throw himself out while he was in police custody. I have met with the unions on several occasions, which make constructive proposals. I met the executives, who stand in a difficult context without ever complaining. How much energy these quality public agents lose! To what extent will the State's commitments to day-to-day security lead to a rapid improvement in the conditions for the performance of the public service tasks of the Nairobi police officers, who are now housed in a very old police station, as well as to an increase in the number of security forces, faced with a chronic deficit which disorganizes the entire police station?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u123	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u124	Mr President, I should like to apologize to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, who is on the Council of Ministers. Your security concerns are in line with the Government's main priorities, notably through the establishment of the daily security police, which was launched in early 2018, a few months ago. It aims first of all to restore presence and isolation and to effect a change in the relationship between the internal security forces and citizens and civil society actors. This includes the so-called republican reconquest neighbourhoods: those where insecurity is greatest, where the underground economy and trafficking are important and disrupt the daily lives of the inhabitants. There can of course be some in the medium-sized cities. The working conditions of police officers are an essential subject, such as, more broadly, the need to guarantee them the means to carry out their tasks in the best conditions of efficiency and security. This priority is reflected in concrete terms, since, on 24 January, an ambitious real estate programme for both the national police and the national gendarmerie was presented. As a result, €45 million is deconcentrated to local officials in 2018, for day-to-day planning and maintenance, compared to €19 million in 2016 – more than double that amount. This method, which is based on the choice of confidence and effectiveness, places the initiative at the level of the local heads of service, which can thus ensure that work is carried out quickly and, above all, close to the needs identified at the local level. As far as the Narbonne police station is concerned, the small and unfunctional building it occupies has already been extended by more than 800 square metres in 2012. Various works were carried out again in 2016, in 2017 and again this year – it would be too long to list them. Of course, there's still a lot to do. In this regard, important projects are still being planned, including the restructuring of the ground floor and the optimization of the surfaces in order to overcome problems of unsafeness, confidentiality and security. The appropriations necessary to carry out the studies were committed in the amount of EUR 70000. The studies are scheduled to be completed by the end of June 2018, before a more precise and scheduled evaluation phase of the work. Finally, with regard to staffing, I would point out that the public safety district of Narbonne now has 128 officers, compared to 126 at the end of 2017 and 121 at the end of 2016. This workforce is expected to remain stable in the coming months. The missions will therefore be completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u125	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u126	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this precise and detailed answer, which gives us readability for the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u127	Mrs Frédérique Meunier, speaking on question No 381 by Mr Gosselin, concerning the collection of biometric data in the English Channel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u128	Mr Philippe Gosselin, Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, wishes to draw the attention of the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, to the devices for the collection of biometric data, known as DR, in the Department of the English Channel and more generally in France. The decree of 28 October 2016 amended the decree of 22 October 1955 establishing an identity card. As a result, and since 1 March 2017, the processing of CNI applications – a national identity card – requires the use of a biometric data collection device. Although there are 477 communes in the Manche department, only 22 town halls have a fingerprinting system and are therefore able to issue national identity cards and passports. In Mr. Gosselin's constituency, only four town halls, with more than 120,000 inhabitants, are equipped, i.e. less than 5% of the population. That's very insufficient! Of course, there is a form of meshing of the territory, but for many of our fellow citizens, the distance between an authorised town hall and their home remains important. As a reminder, La Manche is a department that stretches 157 kilometres from north to south and 59 kilometres from east to west. We are far from a big metropolis where everything is available in a small geographical area. The aim of the decree was to reduce the time taken to obtain national identity cards in prefecture. It must be noted that the problem has only been moved: in fact, the authorized town halls are overwhelmed by requests for appointments and the deadlines are longer, longer, causing many difficulties. Dematerializing is good, digitizing, digitizing is perfect, but we still need our fellow citizens to be there. This is not the case. The administration must be at the service of the French and French. What to say, by the way, about the fiasco of issuing registration certificates – the famous grey cards. I've been a victim myself. Nearly 400,000 are in arrears! And what about driving licences, which suffer the same fate! The State was even condemned for these shortcomings. To return to the NICs, the mayors want to continue to provide this community service to which the citizens are attached. Today, however, even some former cantonal capitals have no DR: it is abnormal. Some municipalities are also in their pockets, given the lack of compensation paid by the State. Hence two questions. When and how much does the minister intend to increase the number of town halls equipped with fingerprinting devices in rural areas? What additional compensatory financial means does it intend to allocate to the municipalities for the staff made available for these tasks by the town halls?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u129	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u130	Member, the reform of national identity cards has been taking place since 2015. I would like to recall the threefold objective: to simplify the procedures of users, to secure the procedure and to strengthen the fight against fraud. In order to produce its full effects, this dematerialisation imposes a limitation on the number of municipalities equipped with collection devices. The number of additional arrangements required to take over these titles was initially estimated by the General Inspectorate of Administration at 228. However, 280 additional stations were installed in 2017, and since then, another 250 new collection devices, whose deployment is being completed, have been financed by the State to relieve the activity of the most sought-after municipalities. Their distribution in the territory between the municipalities has been the subject of close consultation between the prefects and the departmental associations of mayors. For the Department of the English Channel, a collection system was added this year to meet the demand for improved mesh size, bringing the number of collection devices in the Department to 23. On the other hand, the average meeting time in town hall has been constant since the beginning of the year, around eleven days, and 70% of municipalities grant an appointment in less than fifteen days. Only one municipality exceeds the threshold of 30 days: its case obviously deserves to be studied. Finally, I would remind you that this mission is not a new mission that the State would have transferred to the communal bloc: it has been carried out by mayors for decades as agents of the state. The State has also decided to strengthen its financial support for municipalities with a collection system – the second part of the question. The twofold increase – from 18 to 40 million euros – in the allocation for secure securities in 2018 allows, in particular, to raise its fixed amount, increased to 8580 euros per equipment and to 12130 euros when the activity of the scheme reaches 1875 securities per year. All these provisions reflect the Government's commitment to ensuring a high-quality community service for all users and throughout the national territory, and to maintaining vigilance in this regard throughout the implementation of the reform. We remain ready to study the cases of the communes in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u131	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u132	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I'll let Mr. Gosselin know. The problem persists throughout the country. I hope that your answer, which seems satisfactory, will be followed up with effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u133	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor to put his question, No 395, on the financing of video protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u134	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, a circular from the Ministry of Interior dated May 3, 2018 states: "The use of individual cameras allowing audiovisual recording of the interventions of municipal police was planned on an experimental basis for two years. It will no longer be possible as of 4 June 2018, and there is therefore no need to finance this type of equipment until further notice. » Minister Collomb recently stated that we are entering the time of the evaluation, after the experimental period. The non-renewal of the use of these cameras would be a further weakening of municipal police officers, who are doing exemplary and difficult work across the country. They are used with caution and, as a result of interventions, make it much easier to apprehend perpetrators of criminal acts. Removing this equipment from municipal police is further complicating the post-intervention investigation work, and it is again allowing individuals to insect, threaten and assault municipal police officers with the sole responsibility for the officer's speech. This situation is symptomatic of the constant constraints imposed on police officers, even though the presumption of self-defence has become, from year to year, a presumption of guilt. In addition, it should be noted that FIPD, an inter-ministerial crime prevention fund, is decommiting itself to almost all investments in video protection. At a time when the State is still not taking adequate security, judicial and criminal measures, it literally cuts food to local communities to finance their security policies. Should it be understood that cities that are no longer able to finance their security directly will see their citizens turned into criminals? Would it not be appropriate to renew the authorization of experimentation during parliamentary debates, when municipal police will be particularly mobilised this summer? Why lower the funding for video protection when the risk of attacks has never been so real?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u135	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u136	Mr President, the experiment by municipal police with the telegraphs provided for a report to be sent three months before the end of the experiment by the municipalities which had embarked on this route, in order to make arrangements for the possible continuation of this use. The reports of the elected representatives have been delayed, which has further delayed the measures for considering the sustainability of the implementation of this tool in the continuity of the deadlines initially laid down by law. The analysis of these elements has just been finalized. A bill introduced in the Senate on 5 June 2018 lays down the principle of the harmonisation of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities and provides for a generalization of this system in favour of municipal police officers. So things are moving forward. With regard to support for video protection projects, it should be noted that the State has been providing financial assistance to communities for the installation of their video protection projects every year since 2007, through the Interministerial Crime Prevention Fund, which has been providing funding for this policy since that date. However, these appropriations are allocated annually according to identified priorities. Since 2015, however, priority has been given to actions to combat radicalisation, in a simultaneously constrained budgetary context. This context leads to a drastic selection of grant applications submitted in order to prioritize projects aimed at equipping the most fragile territories. In 2018, this mechanism will be renewed and decisions in this area will be devolved to the prefects of the region, in consultation with the prefects of the department. A territorial adjustment according to each person's needs is indeed more logical. I would point out that, since the mobilization of FIPD to assist video protection projects, some 213 million have been disbursed to date as grants, allowing the installation of 49353 cameras throughout the country. This effort has therefore enabled unprecedented public-sector equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u137	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u138	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary of State. I regret that, in the case of the pedestrian cameras, no transitional arrangements have been made. I also regret that important cities have been waiting three years for a grant to deploy video protection. They have so far received no response to their request.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u139	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u140	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u141	Mr Jean-François Portarrieu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 372, on river navigation in Haute-Garonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u142	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to ask you about the conclusions of the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board – IOC – submitted by Mr Philippe Duron on 1 February. While it is strongly oriented towards road, rail and, to a lesser extent, air developments, this document also devotes a significant part to river navigation. Our river system is managed by the public establishment Voies navigable de France – VNF – and has 6,700 kilometres of waterways. In 2016, it allowed the transport of 53 million tons of goods and nearly 10 million passengers. It addresses three complementary issues: the development of logistics and freight transport, the organisation of river tourism and the planning of the territories, and the hydraulic management and preservation of the multiple uses of water. In order to meet the aging heritage, the high maintenance costs and the decline in traffic, the IOC proposes a "denavigation" scheme on the 20% of lanes of the network where traffic is lowest, where only hydraulic management would be maintained. In total, nearly 1000 kilometres of inland waterways are covered by this proposed abolition. In my department of Haute-Garonne, the Canal du Midi and the lateral canal at the Garonne are an undeniable asset for tourist attraction. In addition, in the Toulouse North, local elected officials are carrying out a project to link the canal to the city of Albi by making the Tarn river navigable between the Montech Canal – a small tributary of the Canal du Midi upstream of Montauban – and the Tarn Prefecture. In order to reassure all stakeholders, particularly those involved in river tourism, I would like to hear the Government's views on this IOC proposal. If so, could the Deux-Mers channel be affected?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u143	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u144	Mr. Member, Mrs. Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, cannot be present and she asked me to answer you. As you have indicated, the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, issued on 1 February, recommends that a "denavigation" policy be introduced with the aim of closing the 20% of the network where the least traffic is carried to navigation. We must not be mistaken: this proposal is not intended to reduce the investment efforts made by the State via the waterways of France, but to concentrate expenditure on safeguarding these waterways. As you know, the French waterway network is one of the largest and oldest in Europe. Some of these paths are no longer adapted to the use we make of them today. The strategic project of Voies navigaux de France, adopted in 2015 after a broad consultation, provided for a seasonal service offer or an opening on demand for the less frequented lanes. But there is no question of unilaterally deciding, on the basis of the only criterion of use, the cessation of navigation on these channels. I know, honourable Member, that you are very involved in this matter and that you have already had an opportunity to discuss it with the Government. Before a possible closure, a reflection will be initiated. Consistency of network networking, the tourism and even industrial potential of links and local initiative projects are criteria on which we will base our final decision. With regard to the Canal du Midi, which I know is of particular interest to you – you have had the opportunity to discuss it with the Government and local stakeholders – we are well aware of the exceptional nature of this waterway, which is a UNESCO World Heritage site. This canal is not only one of the most frequented by pleasure boating, with several thousand passages in the summer season, but also a major asset for the Occitanie region in terms of local tourism and economic development. So be reassured, honourable Member: navigation will be maintained on the Canal du Midi. We know we can count on you to be one of the best ambassadors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u145	Mr Jean-François Portarrieu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u146	Just a word to say that I am satisfied with the clarifications given, which take account of the particular nature of the Canal du Midi for our region, particularly for its tourist attraction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u147	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor to raise her question, No 382, concerning the free movement of the A20 motorway from Vierzon to Gignac.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u148	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, during the presidential campaign, Mr Emmanuel Macron had for leitmotiv the improvement of the purchasing power of the French. A year later, what about it? Has the "On the March" revolution taken place? Some will say that it's too early, others that we don't see anything change. Listening to each other in the majority would be a bad time. Yet I have the feeling that the French go from disappointment to disappointment, from strike to strike, from small phrase to small phrase. At the beginning of 2018, Macron's tax measures are assorting consumers. Growth slowed down and the surprising recovery of 2017 seems already weakened. Tax increases reduced purchasing power in the first half of the year and household consumption was moderate. In short, in general, consumption becomes sluggish, according to INSEE. In rural areas, it's getting worse and worse. Desertification is on the edge of the woods: more rural rail services, reduced speed to 80 kilometres per hour on the roads, higher gas oil prices, digital deserts and white areas of mobile phone... Not to mention that soon the Limousin will be closed down at the rectorate of Limoges, just like our school closures. In short, a revolution... but what a revolution! Rurality has the feeling of being abandoned or even abused. And yet, our territories are alive. Contrary to what those in the Parisian jar think, we are "doers", capable of imagination and innovation, capable of undertaking and developing ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u149	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u150	In Corrèze, we do not feel sorry for our fate. On the contrary, with our local communities, we are continuing our development. As such, we created the brand "100% Gaillard". But in order to continue our momentum, the Government must not put a new stone in our shoes every day. We will not have a high-speed line, but improvements on the Paris-Orléans-Limoges-Toulouse line, known as POLT. The Minister responsible for transport has been clear: of which act. I hope these aren't just words. When Jacques Chirac was President of the Republic, he gave the Corrèze the motorway junction A20-A89. This is a terrible development opportunity for us. Today, the Minister responsible for transport referred to the outline of the new mobility law, which will put an end to free motorways in order to finance new road developments. The idea is commendable, but, once again, who's going to drink? Rurality? Our territories must remain attractive. But one of our assets, in Corrèze, is precisely the free of charge of our A20 motorway between Vierzon and Gignac, passing through Brive, or 270 kilometers free. Madam Minister, will this free of charge be called into question with this new law? This measure would go against the words of the President of the Republic, especially when you release 6 billion euros for the renovation of the centres of medium-sized cities in a project called "Cœur de ville": it would be a coup d'a stop at the disenclavement of the territory. Do not make our territory a variable for adjusting your public finances to make savings and finance the development of cities. It is a mistake to think that ruralism is an arid land where nothing happens, where economic dynamics do not exist. Rurality is France, don't forget it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u152	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u153	Madam Member, "rurality is France": that is exactly the vision we share in the Government, which is why we have put in place a whole series of measures that I will not detail. I will not enter your little political game to answer point by point to each of the topics you have raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u154	It's not a politician, it's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u155	There has never been a question, and we have no intention, far from it, of subjecting motorists to a toll for the sections you are talking about – because they are major axes of unenclaving our territories, because it is a priority of the government to which I belong. As you know, on 30 May last, Mr Michel Fanget asked a similar question to the Minister of Transport, on whose behalf I am replying today, since unfortunately it cannot be there, as far as the A75 motorway is concerned. I would like to reassure you: for the A20 motorway between Vierzon and Brive-la-Gaillarde, as for the A75 motorway, there is no question for the Government to subject motorists to toll. The Road Traffic Code authorizes the tolling of roads in the national road network under motorway status, if the situation so requires. For example, concessioning may be necessary where significant and costly development work is essential for the safety of users or for reducing congestion in road traffic. This was the case for the A63 motorway in the Landes. But, rest assured, this is not the case and it will not be so for the A20, which is a modern highway, designed to unblock the territories it crosses and which, as such, is a priority for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u156	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u157	Madam Secretary of State, do not believe that we play a game: we are in reality, we live it every day. You see me delighted and reassured of your answer: I will be able to convey your message to my people because it is an important subject for them. Don't think we're here to play and put you in trouble, far from it! But listen to us, because we often bring up the difficulties of our territories in the face of this Parisian jar that sometimes forgets that territories exist and have their own problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u158	I'm an elected rural woman like you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u159	I call Mr Cazenove to speak on his question, No 373, on wind at sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u160	At the end of 2017, offshore wind turbine installations reached a record level in Europe, with more than 15780 megawatts installed. In addition, the European Wind Energy Association plans to install an additional 3.1 gigawatts until 2020. In France, the Government has indicated that the further development of wind turbines at sea must contribute to the achievement of the 2030 renewable energy production target – and for this reason: we have one of the best potentials in Europe with our 3,500 kilometres of coastline. The Mediterranean coast is also conducive to the development of this new energy, with a facade particularly exposed to the winds which appears moreover as a good alternative to the implantation of terrestrial wind turbines, often raising the discontent of the people, especially in the very touristic territories. Today, however, France, with its potential, has only six offshore wind farms projects, awarded following mainly concentrated tenders in Brittany and Normandy, as well as four floating wind turbine projects. But not all of these projects will be installed until 2020 at best: that is, the delay we have taken. This is a pity because the development of these offshore projects could well make us gain on a second table: the preservation of the marine biodiversity of the French coasts. Indeed, the Arago laboratory, an antenna of the University of Sorbonne and the CNRS, located in Banyuls-sur-Mer, in my constituency, is formal on this point: these facilities could house artificial nurseries within them to help replenish the coasts in marine species. Therefore, without being longer, I would like to know whether the Government intends to take measures regarding the scheduling of tenders and the conditions that would speed up the establishment of offshore wind turbines that are more in line with the development of our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u162	As you know, we have set a target of 40% renewable electricity in the electricity mix by 2030. We are committed to the development of renewable energies at sea, and we must keep in mind both environmental regulations and the preservation of marine biodiversity. As part of the next calls for tenders, we are planning a new approach to planning and permitting, because we want to accelerate the development of renewable energy in the territories. We have three priority objectives: to accelerate the development of projects; strengthen public participation prior to decisions in order to avoid blockage of projects; ensure that environmental issues are taken into account. France is in the process of developing policy documents to organize the planning of the maritime space. We look forward to their adoption in April 2019. As for the programming of future calls for tenders, it will be set up by the multiannual energy programming, which is to be adopted at the end of 2018. I know that you are very concerned about this issue because you have participated in the discussions and the reflections. The Government had also decided to reform the framework for the development and authorization of wind turbines at sea. These reforms are included in the draft law for a State serving a trust society, which is currently being reread in the National Assembly. On the other hand, the state will become more involved upstream of tenders, organizing a public debate to determine the location of the future offshore wind farm(s). It is essential to involve the inhabitants as upstream as possible. The State will also carry out an initial state of the environment, in addition to all the technical studies – wind, swell, water depth, soil studies – so that candidates have a thorough knowledge of the technical characteristics and environmental issues of the area. France has facades suitable for the development of floating wind turbines. So be assured, honourable Member, that we will be responsible for their development. I know we can count on you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u163	Mr Sebastien Cazenove has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u164	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. As you understand, my question is a plea for marine renewable energies. It also aims to include my department in innovation and research in this field: this territory, which lives mainly from tourism and its landscapes, already contributes strongly to the energy mix, with several dozen terrestrial aerogenators on a very small space. It is therefore now time and more than necessary that we can develop in this department the green innovations that are wood, agrivoltaism or offshore wind.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u165	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to put her question, No 380, concerning a village power plant and the purchase price of energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u166	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, after wind energy, photovoltaics: I would like to ask you about the price for the purchase of photovoltaic electricity. We are all committed to succeeding in this energy transition and to achieving the goals that you have just recalled. It is therefore necessary to boost the production of renewable energy, in order to increase its share in our energy mix. This ambitious goal is achievable, especially if we take into account the citizens' initiatives that flourish across our country. Also, I want to talk about a project under germination: a village power plant located in several villages in North Isère, between Vienna and Bourgoin-Jallieu. Fifty roofs are ready to receive the sun and to capture its energy, spread over the intercommunality of the Hills of the North Dauphiné, in villages of a few thousand inhabitants whose name I give just for pleasure: Charantonnay, Heyrieux or Oytier-Saint-Oblas. Inspired by other projects of the same type, supported by local elected representatives, the economic model has been carefully studied. It has a laudable collective and citizen dimension, which is in line with the Government's energy policy. It is the CRE – Energy Regulatory Commission – that sets the buy-back price. However, the constant fall in the buy-back price puts these future village power plant projects at risk. This decline is likely to compromise these local initiatives by removing any economic profitability and consequently depriving this territory of a company that was justly interested in acting in its interest. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I wanted to ask you the following question: how could it be possible to stem this phenomenon of constant reduction of these buying-in rates, so as not to risk putting a brake on local initiatives which are going, it should be stressed, once again, in line with the policy of energy transition led by the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u167	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u168	Member of the European Parliament, local authorities and citizens are key players in the ecological transition. Having had the opportunity to discuss this with you, I know how much you are involved in this issue and how much you know how to identify innovations in favour of ecological transition as close as possible to your territory. Without these actors, local authorities and citizens, it would be impossible for us to achieve our ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the elected representatives and citizens who are committed to projects to speed up the energy transition; You have quoted those who work in your territory. To assist in the development of renewable energy, we have put in place a set of financial tools, either in the form of a call for projects, for the most important, or in the form of an open window. In addition to an advantageous price, these support devices help to secure the price of electricity produced by equipment using renewable resources over 20 years. This also ensures a return on investment. We want to do this because it is essential for both project promoters and investors. For the ecological and energy transition to be sustainable, each of the stakeholders must benefit from it. I know that's exactly what you have in mind when you ask that question. Citizen involvement in these social projects is equally crucial. The stronger it is, the more effective it will be. This is why, in our calls for projects, we value those who offer crowdfunding or participatory investments thanks to a bonus on the electricity buyback rate. You are referring to a decrease: this is due in particular to the technological progress of renewable energy production lines. This is to be welcomed: we can finally massify and accelerate the development of renewable energies. This is good news for communities too, because lower costs make it possible to increase their renewable energy capacity. I therefore remain very optimistic about the energy transition in the country, which will be able to accelerate. I know how to count on Members like you, very involved, very keen to ensure that this transition takes place as close as possible to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u169	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u170	I also had in mind that these technological developments allow for a better profitability of these village power plants, especially with the Linky meter. Behind all this is also the question of the flow of electricity, but we will probably talk about it again. These local initiatives need to be given a somewhat more sustainable framework, because they project over 20 years from the connection – except that they only know the price at the last moment. This is an important point for the initiative I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u171	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 386, concerning the damage caused by hail to cultures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u172	My question is to Mr Travert, Minister for Agriculture; I am pleased that the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responds on her behalf, since she herself is elected from rural areas. Three weeks ago, an extremely violent hailstorm fell on two communes in my constituency of Vaucluse, leaving behind it a landscape of desolation. Almost all growers of vines and cherries lost 100% of their production of the year. The storm, which is extremely localized, caused desolation among these farmers, who saw a year of work disappear in about 20 minutes. On this day, I would like once again to express my full support for them. A few days after the disaster in the Vaucluse, the national press reported the same situation in the Bordelais, where a hailstorm had destroyed several thousand hectares of vines. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is becoming recurrent. Indeed, the current climate change seems to increase the frequency and intensity of these storms. This situation poses a general problem: hail is not considered to be a natural disaster or an agricultural disaster, and the draft law on agriculture recently passed in the National Assembly does not mention this risk. However, you are aware that many small farmers do not have the financial reserves necessary to contract private insurance covering all risks. So we have to work on other tracks. Thus, for several years now, the idea of organizing a pooling of climate hazards insurance has been considered. It would in some way be an agreed national fund, which could be decided by simple ministerial decree. There is also the question of the creation of collective insurance per hectare, covering all crops but which must be incentive for farmers and, above all, to ensure that the rest is as low as possible for farmers. Another solution would be to better take into account staffing for hazards – CCA. Indeed, this defied reserve fund that allows the operator to block a share of its benefits the years of abundant harvest for the less productive years is an excellent solution. Nevertheless, this fund should be improved to better reflect the reality of exploitation. Farmers therefore expect this fund to be indexed to the farm's turnover, so that the amount of the allocation is more consistent with the farm's economic activity. This last track shows the commitment of farmers. However, it is important that the other solutions advocated be explored for the protection of our farmers. Can you tell us if the leads mentioned, or others, are under consideration?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u173	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u174	Mr President, I should like to apologize for the absence of Stéphane Travert, Minister for Agriculture and Food, currently in the Council of Ministers. Like you, I share the concerns of the Valencian farmers. I know that every year, and always too often, they are unfortunately victims of climatic hazards and I share your concern. Your key and crucial question is the damage to crops as a result of the violent hailstorms that took place in the Vaucluse, where I had the opportunity to visit and see how difficult it was for farmers. In the face of increasing weather conditions, the Government considers – and I speak on behalf of Stéphane Travert, Minister of Agriculture, whom I am replacing – that it is essential for farmers to ensure their production: the State therefore supports the crop insurance scheme against climate risks. This support takes the form of 65 % of the premiums or insurance contributions paid by farmers. The remaining liability of the operator is thus reduced to 35%. Within this framework, producers may have an insurance contract adapted to their needs and choose to ensure that they are insured either by crop groups, in which case each type of harvest – for example cherry – of the corresponding group is insured, or by the holding, in which case different types of harvest are insured. The risk is thus mutualised – that is the objective you mentioned – within the same operation at a lower cost. With regard to the allocation of funds for hazards, in early 2018 the Government initiated a reflection on agricultural taxation, closely involving the parliamentarians of the two assemblies – Senate and National Assembly – as well as the professionals of the sector. I am sure, honourable Member, that you will be keen to participate, as you have done in the debate in the General Food States and in the bill which seeks, from a perspective of drastic innovation and breaking with previous governments, from the producer to determine the price of the products. As you can see in my response, we want to change taxation to better adapt it to the economic life of farms, and I know that you are thinking a lot about it with the Government. In addition, one of the important areas of work of this reflection is improving the resilience of companies: to this end, we will encourage risk and hazard management within companies, through the creation of precautionary provisions or savings. I am sure that we will still have the opportunity to talk about it and to think about it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u175	I would point out that the time allotted for each question is six minutes and that, in principle, it is necessary to keep some time for the honourable Member's answer. On an exceptional basis, Mr. Bouchet, I give you 30 seconds to respond to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for saying all this. The practical effects for producers will have to be monitored. I am opening a parenthesis: you are undoubtedly aware as I am of the problem of cherries imported from countries outside the European Union, particularly from Turkey, and treated with dimethoate, a product banned in France since 2016. This issue is also a matter for the department. It is important that France can act and that the same rules apply not only in Europe, but also outside Europe, otherwise our producers are condemned to term.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u177	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, to put his question, No 367, on the poverty line in the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u178	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, allow me to associate my question with my colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor, who fully shares my questions. For INSEE, in terms of income, our overseas territories are distant regions, as well as outside the Republic. Indeed, for obscure reasons, it sets the poverty line at less than 600 euros per month, while this figure reaches 1000 euros for hexagonal France. Already in 2015, INSEE had estimated poverty rates at 19% in Guadeloupe, 21% in Martinique and 44% in Guyana, with a poverty line of 60% not of the national median standard of living but of the local median standard of living. In Guyana, this poverty line falls to 420 net euros per month. This results in figures that do not at all reflect the reality of the difficulties experienced by the population, since the cost of living is much higher. According to INSEE, prices are thus 13% higher in Guyana, 9.7% higher in Martinique and 8.3% higher in Guadeloupe, with particularly high prices for foodstuffs – plus 30% – in the three territories. Poor knowledge of overseas income and differences in taxation alone cannot explain the use of a different threshold in these territories. Why not do the same in Seine-Saint-Denis or Nièvre? In essence, INSEE's calculation is tantamount to considering that the most disadvantaged ultramarine population must meet a lower standard of living. This hides the misery in our territories and the inequalities that remain there. In the end, these statistics tell a lot about the interest in ultramarine territories, which explains, at least in part, the inability of national governments to understand our difficulties. Hence the social movements which regularly shake overseas and which must be seen as warning of the urgency of implementing public policies based on more reliable indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u179	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u180	Mr President, I am replying in the place of Annick Girardin, Minister for Overseas Affairs, who would have liked to be here this morning but who unfortunately could not. I will not teach you anything by reminding you that poverty is measured by INSEE on the basis of median income, or that the poverty line is at 60% of the median of household living standards. In the overseas departments and regions – DROM – with the exception of Réunion, poverty thresholds are based on locally calculated incomes. These indicators are of statistical interest because they measure trends over time, but it is true that they do not reduce the poverty level of the DROM compared to the metropolis. Work is therefore under way at INSEE to develop poverty rates in the DROMs by referring to the national poverty line. This means strengthening the reliability of household income data – not only reported income but also respendable income after redistribution. The results were published in September 2017 for Martinique and La Réunion, based on surveys conducted in 2014: the poverty rate calculated from the national threshold is thus 40% in Réunion and 32.1% in Martinique, compared with 19.8% in reference to the local poverty rate. A survey carried out this year in Guadeloupe should make it possible to know precisely, by 2020 or 2021 at the latest, the poverty rate. As far as Guyana and Mayotte are concerned, the reliability of the data in the localised social and fiscal file is not yet sufficient, but progress is expected in the next surveys. I assure you, honourable Member, on behalf of the Minister for Overseas Affairs, Annick Girardin, that we will remain attentive to this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u181	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u182	Madam Secretary of State, I hear your answer very well, particularly with regard to the effort that INSEE will make with regard to the DROM and with regard to Guyana and Mayotte, two departments of which you are aware of the particularly painful situation. Once it is not customary, allow me to continue to advocate the cause of these territories, particularly that of isolated women and young people, who live in the difficult situations that we know. The President of the Republic has fully understood the effort to promote housing, employment and the empowerment of these populations. I am therefore looking forward to seeing the trend that INSEE will take and, above all, the consequences and results of the work that will be carried out in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u183	The floor is open to Mr Jacques Marilossian to put his question, No. 371, on the construction of housing in Garches, Rueil-Malmaison and Saint-Cloud.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u184	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Territorial Cohesion to the steady pace of housing construction in Île-de-France, particularly in my constituency, in Rueil-Malmaison, Saint-Cloud and Garches. I am pleased that it is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, who answers my question. Madam Secretary of State, the objective of building 70000 housing units per year in Île-de-France to address housing problems is perfectly part of a sustainable development approach. However, new constructions undeniably lead to a densification which cannot be envisaged without a prior impact study, in order to understand the consequences in terms of traffic, pollution, sanitation constraints and the inadequacy of public networks and services. Avoiding the deterioration of the quality and living environment of the inhabitants: this is at stake. Many citizens deplore the lack of reflection and consultation on the one hand and the failure to take into account the publication of impact studies on the other. For example, the environmental authority, following a 2011 study of the ZAC – Cooperative Management Area – in Rueil-sur-Seine, had expressed significant reservations about air quality, considering it to be degraded. The town of Rueil-Malmaison currently has 5300 new housing units under programming. The town hall justifies the new constructions by the obligation to respect the quotas imposed by law for access to housing and a renovated urban planning – law ALUR. There are no, or little, new equipment planned and the opening date of the Grand Paris Express station has been postponed to 2030. In addition to this, flood-dwelling construction projects have unfortunately recently been able to measure the effects of the last flood on the residents. In the face of this concern from the inhabitants of Garches, Rueil-Malmaison and Saint-Cloud, I would like to know what steps the Government wishes to take to ensure better consultation and coordination among all the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u185	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u186	Mr President, I am responding in the place of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. You recall the importance of the construction target of 70000 units per year to meet the housing needs in Île-de-France. This is an essential objective defined by the 2010 law on the Greater Paris. You also recall that we have at our heart the fight against urban sprawl to limit displacement, facilitate energy savings and reduce greenhouse gas emissions – I recall that air pollution is responsible for almost 40,000 deaths a year in France. While the Ile-de-France region's master plan – SDRIF – promotes urban intensification, particularly around the future stations of Greater Paris, it also defends the improvement of the living conditions of the Francilians. I know, honourable Member, that you are very attentive to this and that you have been able to share the concerns of your territory on several occasions. Several levers of action are available to the communities to facilitate the accompaniment and consultation upstream of urban projects, first of all local urban planning plans but also local travel plans in Île-de-France, as well as financing to facilitate the carrying of projects over the long term. In any case, respect for the environment and the environment is at the heart of these devices. I can assure you, honourable Member, that we are paying particular attention to this last point in the opinions given under environmental authorisation or in Ecoquartier labelling, as the Arsenal in Rueil-Malmaison has recently been able to do. The State is also fully vigilant about construction in flood-prone areas through the development of risk prevention plans and their inclusion in urban planning documents. The weather of the last few days is a reminder of the crucial nature of this issue. I know that you are particularly attentive, and that we can count on elected officials like you to alert us. Thank you for this dialogue and I know that it will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u187	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u188	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary of State. I suggest a Government communication plan on these issues so that people understand the issues, the consequences and the need for environmental solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u189	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to speak on his question No 379 on the Eurodistrict in the former mining basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u190	Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said during his speech at the Congress of the French departments last October that territorial uniformity is not necessary for the unity of the nation. This is a precious verbatim that lays the foundations for the necessary reflection of the territories in difficulty, in accordance with the report "Mission on the governance of the Lorrain North" of the Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of the Territories of April 2017. There is a real complexity of this Eurodistrict as well as real inherent difficulties. This former steel basin, its mines in the Upper Country, appear to be frozen in time after the effects of the mining and steel crisis, and in a weakened position due to the proximity of the borders, the last step towards Belgium, Germany and more specifically the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, with a certain dependence. This territory with high stakes shares with Luxembourg a real culture as well as a close identity, but with very different economies. These are extremely complex subjects, posed in observation, solved by tiled but never thoroughly reformed. The last state visit of the Grand Duchy and the first intergovernmental seminar have made it possible to set milestones in the bilateral relations between our two countries. In order to solve these structural problems, we must therefore act structurally and not just address symptoms. There are therefore three challenges of general interest to be addressed: the approximation of employment and living areas, the conversion of brownfields, and the creation of a specific area with our Luxembourg neighbours, allowing innovation and the revival of the economy. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, what arrangements can be put in place by the Government to revitalize the territory? The constitutional reform will allow, by Article 15, a real right to differentiation and not just a derogation, but what about the creation of a zone with a specific status, common to our two countries, allowing the creation of a cross-border economy, which is a factor of positive demography and raising the standard of living?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u191	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u192	Mr President, many French cross-border territories face challenges of economic competitiveness. Be assured that we are aware of the specificity of the Northern Lorrain. The April 2017 report by the Office of the Commissioner-General for Equality of the Territories provides a clear diagnosis. Successive industrial shocks left the Territory in a difficult economic and social situation. I know that this issue is of particular interest to you and that you have had the opportunity to interact with many members of the Government in this regard. The report confirms the absolute need to rebalance an overly asymmetrical relationship with Luxembourg. One of its recommendations is to establish a more collective territorial governance on the Lorrain side. The project to create a metropolitan pole meets this requirement. The Ministry of Territorial Cohesion pays close attention to the successful implementation of the measures taken. This local organization, if indispensable, cannot be sufficient. At the recent Franco-Luxembourg summit, all partners agreed on the need for co-development and collaborative development. The involvement of the region is indeed crucial. A mission was entrusted by Minister Mézard to the prefect of the Grand-Est region, asking him to involve the president of the regional council in his reflection. I know you're following this closely. Several hypotheses are envisaged to improve the competitiveness of the northern regions of Lorraine, in particular any approach aimed at reducing the differences between the French and Luxembourg tax systems on the border territory. Proposals will be submitted next September. On this basis, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion will bring to the inter-ministerial debate measures that would require legislative levers. I am sure that he will be pleased to continue his dialogue with you to find concrete ways to improve the situation and cooperation with Luxembourg. Be assured, Mr. Member of Parliament, of the full mobilization of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and of the Government as a whole to improve the situation in Northern Lorrain as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u193	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u194	I thank you, and once again invite the Minister for Territorial Cohesion to visit this northern territory. I understand that discussions are taking place, particularly in connection with the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, and that their coming is being prepared. The idea is not simply to receive two ministers, but that they come with things to propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u195	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to put her question, No 388, on the importance of the preparation course for the installation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u196	I would like to use the microphone to say that if the House is empty, it is because I am at the end of this oral question session without debate and we all have a lot of meetings on Tuesday morning at the same time. I say this because citizens do not always understand these empty benches and we will have to explain as much as necessary to avoid misinterpretations. I come from a department, the Cher, in which there is a high rate of unemployment and where volunteers are encouraged to embark on the adventure of craftsmanship, work that is not delocalized and necessary for our industry and society. That is why my question is about the importance of the pre-installation training course – SPI – and its usefulness for the start-up of a craft activity. Currently mandatory for persons applying for registration in the trades register, including project promoters who choose the micro-enterprise regime, the SPI is a strong and important moment at the start of a craft trade. With a minimum duration of 30 hours, it allows the craftsman to be better equipped to meet the obligations he will face as a business manager. In fact, the SPI allows future managers, through courses and practical work, to be made aware of the conditions of their installation, the financing problems that may arise, the techniques for forecasting and controlling their future operation, and the possibilities of continuing training. It has been shown by various studies that if the sustainability rate of enterprises in the first three years is better in the craft sector, it is also due to this scheme. Act No. 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life introduced several provisions to optimize the management of the SPI: it is no longer likely to be an obstacle to the company's creation schedule, registration in the register of trades cannot be carried out if the internship has not been started within 30 days of the request of the project leader. Furthermore, if a reason of force majeure prevents the new craftsman from attending the course before registration, he may do so within one year of registration. The law also introduced a traineeship exemption for project promoters who have completed equivalent training or who have equivalent experience. Convinced of the usefulness of the SPI and of the optimizations that have been introduced, I would like to know the Government's intentions with regard to the SPI and the precise reasons why the Government could consider abolishing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u197	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u198	Madam Member, I am replying to you in the place of Mrs Gény-Stephann, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance. The abolition of the obligation to attend the pre-installation training course aims to facilitate the creation of a craft enterprise, at a lower cost: in 2017, this internship represents a cost of 194 euros. This cost can be adversarial for some professionals, especially those considering a reduced activity, such as micro-entrepreneurs. The abolition of this internship will also reduce the time taken to set up a craft business: I would remind you that entrepreneurs cannot be registered in the trades register – and therefore start their activity – before they have completed this internship. Today, the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts have a period of one month to carry it out, failing which registration in the register of trades takes place by law. As a result, creation can be delayed to 35 days if one counts this one-month delay plus the five-day period corresponding to the duration of the internship. The Government does not question the usefulness of this internship for some entrepreneurs: the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts will retain the obligation to offer this internship to future artisanal entrepreneurs. On the other hand, the Government wishes to put an end to its compulsory nature, as in the case of the training course on management offered to traders. The Government believes that a business starter should be able to freely choose the appropriate support for him or her, in accordance with his or her expectations and the knowledge he or she already has. Customised support must be developed for future entrepreneurs, who will be able to optimise the chances of their business being sustained.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u199	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u200	Thank you for that answer. I understand that you want more flexibility in the scheme, which I am in favour of. Attention will have to be paid to the preparation for installation, in any way, because far too many companies are disappearing too quickly because of a lack of preparation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u201	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-12-O1266.u202	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government Explanations of vote and public vote on the Housing, Development and Digital Development Bill Further discussion of the bill on freedom to choose your professional future. The meeting is adjourned.
