ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u1	The next item is a statement by the Government pursuant to article 35, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, followed by a debate on the intervention of French armed forces in Syria. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 35 of our Constitution, I have the honour to inform you of the decisions taken for the intervention of our armed forces abroad. Given the importance of these operations, we wanted this information to be followed by a debate in the National Assembly and the Senate. On 7 April, several chemical attacks were carried out on the city of Duma, Syria, including on medical infrastructure: more than 45 people lost their lives and many others were injured. On the night of 13-14 April, on the orders of the President of the Republic, the French air and naval forces, in close coordination with the armed forces of the United States and the United Kingdom, struck the Syrian territory. This operation was a success. We destroyed all three sites: a research site in the outskirts of Damascus, an assembly site and a chemical weapons storage site. Without waiting for our debate today and in accordance with the spirit of our institutions, the Government has ensured that Parliament is constantly informed of the situation. In the evening preceding the action of our forces, I personally informed the presidents of the two assemblies of the decisions taken by the President of the Republic; yesterday morning, I received them again and the chairmen of the relevant committees and parliamentary groups. These exchanges were of great quality and dignity, quality and dignity that the situation imposes, and I wanted to thank everyone for that. This afternoon, it is up to us to discuss the situation in Syria and the action of France. I would first like to recall the framework within which our policy is deployed in Syria. First of all, with regard to our general objectives, they are clear, they have not changed: our enemy is not Syria. We have not entered the war against Syria or the regime of Bashar al-Assad. Our enemy is Daesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u3	Ah! That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u4	We want to put an end to the terrorist movement that has organized on our soil the deadly attacks that have struck so many French families in their flesh and, beyond that, all minds. But our political or military action in the Levant would be perfectly futile, our entire foreign policy without object, if a weapon of terror, banished by the international community for almost a century, maintained barbarism against the civilian population, promoted hatred, undermined any possibility of political settlement and, upstream, contradicted all the rules that humans gave themselves. Finding a political solution to a conflict, ensuring that war leads to peace is possible. But no political solution will be found as long as the use of the chemical weapon remains unpunished. Civilian populations pay the cost of inaction. Our security itself, in France and in Europe, is at stake. That was why the President of the Republic had clearly established a red line from the beginning of his term of office. Chemical weapons have been banned in war operations since the signing of the Geneva Protocol in 1925, almost a century ago; Syria ratified this protocol in 1968, fifty years ago. Since the Battle of Ypres in 1915, France has always been at the forefront of the fight against chemical weapons. After the Geneva Protocol, our country re-launched negotiations on the subject in 1989 at the initiative of President François Mitterrand, and the convention banning the possession of chemical weapons was finally signed in Paris in 1993. It is now the common law of 192 states. The community of States has agreed to ban chemical weapons because they are systematically the instrument of a war crime: in gaseous or liquid form, they spread beyond the zone of fighting, persist after fighting, and indiscriminately affect combatants and civilians. It is no longer a dirty war or an unfair war, but apocalyptic scenes that the Syrian regime has reactivated. With chemical weapons, it is the reason and civilization that are vexing for a long time. I had the opportunity to say this in response to a Member of Parliament during a question-and-answer session to the Government: the use of chemical weapons speaks something of the one who uses it. And our reaction to this use, ladies and gentlemen, says something about us. In May 2017, the President of the Republic had therefore very precisely defined a red line: a proven chemical attack by the Syrian armed forces, with lethal consequences, would lead to an immediate response. That had been made clear, in the presence of the President of the Russian Federation, who had subsequently approved the formulation of the President of the Republic. On April 7, this red line was crossed. The information gathered by France and its allies attests to the reality of this chemical attack, which has also been confirmed by the World Health Organization. This information, collected by our services and by our allies, analysed by our medical teams, identifies many victims and demonstrates the responsibility of the Syrian armed forces in this operation. Unfortunately, it was an already tried-and-tested tactic that took place in Duma. The scheme applied is very similar to that which had been followed in Aleppo. The operational strategy responds to a clear objective: to sow terror among civilian populations and to accelerate the final stages of the fight by dislodging armed groups by all means. It is therefore a deliberate and repeated strategy of terror. The regime is not in its first use of chemical weapons. In 2013 and 2017, France declassified information that demonstrates Damascus' responsibility for several proven chemical attacks. During the attack on Khan Sheikhoun on 4 April 2017, our country published its own assessment that demonstrates the regime's responsibility, and international mechanisms, under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), have repeatedly confirmed our elements. In a report published on 6 September 2017, the UN Committee of Inquiry also established the responsibility of Syrian government forces in the attacks on Khan Sheikhoun. Before resorting to force, we went to the end of the political and diplomatic process to make it sound right in Damascus. Indeed, France is deeply committed to multilateralism because the collective path – history has convinced us – is the only way to maintain lasting peace. In recent years, our country and its partners have therefore multiplied diplomatic initiatives in the Security Council, the United Nations General Assembly, the Human Rights Council and the OPCW. But France wants effective multilateralism. In the present case, however, the obstruction of a State has not allowed this collective approach to succeed. Russia has placed twelve vetoes on the Syrian case, six of them on the only chemical issue – the most recent one last Tuesday was opposed to a plan to re-establish the independent mechanism for investigating and assigning responsibility in the event of a chemical attack in Syria. However, under Chapter VII of the Charter, which authorizes the use of force if necessary, the Security Council had already undertaken to adopt coercive measures, including military measures, in the face of repeated and repeated violations by the regime of international law and its own commitments. In particular, I would like to remind you of the terms of resolution 2118, unanimously adopted on 27 September 2013, following the Syrian chemical attacks of the previous month: the Security Council "decids that, in the event of non-compliance with this resolution, including the unauthorized transfer or use of chemical weapons by anyone in the Syrian Arab Republic, it will impose measures under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations". We have therefore taken on our responsibilities; and for the future, for the days, weeks and months to come, our political line remains clear and does not change. Our response was well justified in its causes. In its modalities, it has been carefully proportionate: objectives exclusively linked to the chemical programme, exclusively Syrian objectives. It was targeted to avoid damage to civilians and designed to prevent escalation. So we sent a firm message. A clear message. A strong message.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u5	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u6	We want to dissuade the regime from using chemical weapons, as fighting continues and there is no willingness to seek a political way out. We mean that no military victory can be won with impunity by chemical weapons. Our action, coordinated with that of our allies, aims to prohibit the cost of using these weapons and to reduce the ability of Syrians to use them again by reaching their production, assembly and storage facilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM, UDI-Agir and NG groups]] I would like here, ladies and gentlemen, to pay tribute to the women and men of our armies who conducted this operation with remarkable composure and professionalism. By its strength and depth of strike, France has confirmed its status as a political and military power. His armies, together with our allies, intervened quickly and effectively, while providing the necessary guarantees to protect the civilian population. However, this intervention is not the prelude to a war. We don't fit into a climbing logic. We have struck the regime's chemical capabilities and not the regime's allies, despite our clear differences of opinion. The President of the Republic continues to engage in dialogue with his counterparts, because we do not want to give up the only future-oriented option: the political solution. Our action has received very broad international support, both from our allies, in particular Germany – which stressed its necessity and proportionality – and from major international organizations. The European Union, NATO and the Cooperation Council of the Arab States of the Gulf have, in the voice of their representatives, expressed themselves very clearly and very favourably. Last Saturday, the Security Council overwhelmingly rejected, with eight negative votes and four abstentions, Russia's proposal to condemn the intervention. The vast majority of the members of the Council therefore do not agree with the assertion that our action would be contrary to international legality. In the eyes of all, it also testifies to our autonomy in decision-making. Beyond this military operation, we will now continue our efforts to actively re-launch a settlement process today at a halt. The United Nations Security Council has set the framework for this. In addition to the resolution 2118 I mentioned, resolution 2401, also adopted by Russia, provides for an immediate truce that will allow the resumption of humanitarian aid: 13 million Syrians, including 6 million children, must receive urgent and vital assistance. In addition, more than half of the Syrian population had to leave their homes. The President of the Republic will announce an initiative involving an increase in French and European funding as well as the development of a comprehensive plan in which all projects will be integrated, in coordination with our main partners, the UN, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, the International Committee of the Red Cross, ICRC, as well as non-governmental organisations. Resolution 2254, for its part, provides for the adoption of a new constitution and the organization of free elections in Syria. We must strengthen the international consensus for an inclusive political solution: the forum for dialogue, which brings together the United States, the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and France, must open negotiations with Iran, Russia and Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, if strength is never an end in itself, history has taught us that deferring the use of force against the unacceptable often buys an illusory rest that must be paid at a high price later. The use of force is a heavy and serious act. Everyone who here, on these benches, has had to make or accompany such decisions, knows this: action involves a risk. It has a cost. A human cost. A political cost. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to share with you the conviction that both the risk and the cost of inaction were, in this case, even greater. Larger for our future. Greater also for our conscience and for the trace that we will leave in history as in the eyes of those who will follow us. Of course, the decision – difficult, legitimate and necessary – taken in his soul and conscience by the President of the Republic will be debated. It is the honour of our democracy to allow such a debate. I do not misjudge the complexity of the situation in the Levant, but if it imposes nuance, prudence and reflection, it does not condemn inaction more than impotence in the face of such a flagrant violation of the principles that underpin our common life. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Take action; take on our responsibilities; Highlight the voice of France; show what we will remain inflexible and use, if necessary, our armed forces to say unabatedly what we are and what we believe in. We cannot claim to solve all the problems of the world by ourselves, but we must never, never, turn our eyes away when we can contribute to them. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the meaning of the action of the President of the Republic and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u7	The next speaker is Mr Richard Ferrand, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of the Armed Forces, Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, Government Spokesman, Vice-President of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to commend the courage and professionalism of our armies who have successfully conducted our operation in Syria. It has destroyed clandestine chemical weapons production and storage facilities. It was led, with measure and responsibility, by the staffs, in coordination with our American and British allies. Driven from several bases in metropolitan France, and from our buildings deployed in the Mediterranean, it is a new proof of the achievements that our airmen and sailors are capable of. France is grateful to the latter, as it is to all those who commit themselves, on our territory and well beyond our borders, for collective security. On April 7, again, voices of children, women and men killed each other. This conflict continues to sow death in all parts of Syria; it destroys all traces of humanity on this earth, yet so close to the cradle of civilization; It makes these lands of culture, art and history, fields of desolation. On 7 April, the fates of combatants and civilians were mixed up in a blind and barbaric attack. The chemical attack on Duma sends us back a century, when these weapons from the depths of human barbarism were used for the first time in Ypres. We were, then, at the dawn of half a century of darkness, where humanity showed what was worst. Since then, these vicious weapons have been banished from civilization, since they have been used only on an ad hoc basis, by dictatorial regimes, in the face of defenceless civilians. Symbol of his cowardice, it was therefore this process that Bashar al-Assad used to hunt down the last opponents who were still refusing to deliver the eastern Ghouta to him. It was our services – the French intelligence services – that provided us with the evidence – thus confirming the information we had at our disposal – that this chemical attack had taken place and that it was indeed the work of the Syrian regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u9	What about the Turks?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u10	The latter had already launched a campaign of indiscriminate bombing of entire cities, without taking into account the civilian or military nature of its targets. Above all, this is not a first: since April 4, 2017, the French assessment services have recorded at least forty-four reports of the regime's use of chemical weapons and the attack on Khan Sheikhoun. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] It was therefore with good reason that the President of the Republic had recalled, on 29 May 2017, in Versailles, in the presence of Vladimir Putin, that chemical weapons could not be used against civilian populations without France's reaction. That's what she finally did, and she was right. To the suffering of peoples cannot answer a guilty indifference or a cowardly silence. The only compassion is not a response to barbarism: the decision of the President of the Republic to strike chemical weapons installations was therefore the answer. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] We all know the weight of such a decision. However, without the action of the French, American and British forces, Bashar al-Assad could have had the destroyed capabilities to act against his people or even against his neighbours. Now, the Assad regime knows that impunity is no longer worth it, that it will no longer be able to gas its people without exposing itself – whatever the posture of its protectors – to a sure response. There is no doubt that the three resolutions unanimously adopted by the United Nations – resolution 2254 on the political process in Syria, resolution 2118 on the absolute prohibition of chemical weapons and resolution 2104 on humanitarian law – are the perfect basis for action. The same is true of the 1925 Protocol and the Paris Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, opened for signature in 1993 on the initiative of François Mitterrand: they are the perfect basis for the Government's action. The Security Council has refused to condemn the coalition initiative. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on a few benches of the MODEM group. - Protests on the benches of the FI group]] So since Saturday, we have been hearing those for whom this military operation would have been too much, useless, and those who consider it insufficient. The former condemn without proposing anything; and their words merely mask their choice to do nothing. We prefer France, which acts for an unsuspecting Syria, for a free Syria!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u11	What about the Kurds?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u12	Others – the very ones who exalt France standing but would like to lie down – are skeptical and dubitative, even though it is on the basis of sovereign intelligence that our country has affirmed the autonomy of its strategic choices and commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u13	What are you doing with the Kurds?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u14	Some, finally, consider the intervention insufficient, while in the past they had failed to lead a similar one – certainly because of the failure of some of our allies. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone remembers the emotion triggered, both in France and in the world, by the lifeless body photography of little Aylan stranded on a shore in Turkey.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u15	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Today, it is his brothers, sisters and parents who are being gassed, and we should close our eyes, hide or write about international law? It is not enough to cry about the fate of the victims or to cultivate a theoretical distance from history: the greatness of duty is to act. The power of France allows it to enforce human rights;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u17	Except in Yemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u18	Or in favor of the Kurds!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u19	...we will not be among those who, expressing an indignation with variable geometry, claim that France is in violation when it is going to save lives. When France is large in the eyes of the world, our assembly has no right to be small. General de Gaulle...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u20	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u21	...liked to recall that the most costly and ruinous policy is to be small. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] No one likes the sound of bombs, but we're still honing the suffocation of gassed victims. Military action must be put at the service of diplomatic action: I welcome in this regard the initiative of the Government which has today tabled a draft resolution in favour of peace in the United Nations Security Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all representatives of the nation. The sometimes swampy tactics, the unfounded parallels like the elucubrations of bad faith have no place in such serious circumstances. They give credit to a dictator and a regime who have made brutality and inhumanity a trademark and on which they hope to base their survival. They delegitimize the actions of our armies, the work of our intelligence services, but also that of the NGOs which, on the spot, shed light on the atrocity of the attack perpetrated by the Syrian regime. The doubt that could thus be instilled is dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue, to make horror bearable, to turn our eyes away.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u22	Like in Yemen?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u23	To help Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The decision of the President of the Republic was the one that was necessary because it was a reflection of an inhumane reality. That is why, Prime Minister, I wish to affirm the unwavering support of the Republic Group for the operation led by our armies in Syria on 14 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u25	Mr Christian Jacob, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u26	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir groups, on a few benches of the NG group and among the non-attached MPs]] Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, The Republicans, my grateful thoughts obviously go to the French soldiers, who accepted their mission and who responded to the decision of the head of the armies to hire France in the Syrian theatre of operation. Article 35 of our Constitution gives the President of the Republic the responsibility to engage our armies alone. He just made that choice. We have no doubt that he has weighed this decision heavily and that he has based it on the deep conviction that it will serve France's interests, because that is ultimately what counts when our soldiers are sent to fire. It is now up to us, as parliamentarians, to discuss it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the FI and GDR groups. - Mr. Christophe Naegelen also applauds]] The President of the Republic has made a strict reading of article 35. That's his right. I would point out, however, that nothing prevented him from holding a debate before the strikes – François Mitterrand had done so in 1990 (Murmurs on the benches of the LaREM group) – and allowing Parliament to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u27	That was called democracy at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u28	A vote of national representation gave force to a decision of the President of the Republic which did not rely on the force of international law. I have the privilege, sad in many respects, of speaking for the third time before a Prime Minister who defends the decision of a president to use force in Syria. You are therefore, Prime Minister, the third, after Mr Ayrault and Mr Valls, to which I reply. You have not forgotten, ladies and gentlemen – for those of you who were there – the fiasco of the September 2013 debate: a President of the Republic who decides, already following the use of chemical weapons, to inform us that France will intervene. Absolute taboo of international law since the 1925 Geneva Protocol, as you recalled, Prime Minister, the use of gas is a barbaric, savage and inhumane act. Yesterday and today, it is the honour of the great democracies to be inflexible. You know what happened to this speech: released by President Obama and by the British parliament, François Hollande gave up. He had no other choice, for without a mandate from the United Nations, this intervention was doomed to political failure. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] We know the rest of the story. In two years, the situation has become uncontrollable. The Islamic State imposed a caliphate of terror – a caliphate, remember, which had imposed rape, torture, slavery of women; a barbarism against Eastern Christians, Yezidis, Kurds, Syrian civilian populations; A barbarism, ladies and gentlemen, which has struck our national territory painfully and carried away so many of our compatriots. In September 2015, President Hollande noted the failure of the Western strategy. He noted that in Syria nothing would be done without Russia, without the regional powers of Iran and Turkey. [[Applause on several benches in the LR, UDI-Agir and FI groups, as well as among non-attached MPs]] Russia may have a lot of flaws, but let us agree that it has made it possible to speed up the fall of Daesh. What would have become of the Syrian powder factory without Russian intervention? Let us also agree, and it is realpolitik, that Russia has strategic interests in Syria, in particular its military bases, and consistently defends them. Is it reasonable, in these circumstances, to refrain, by dogma, from working towards a comprehensive political solution for Syria with Russia? Everyone knows that nothing has been done since 2015 and that nothing will be done in Syria without Russia,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u29	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u30	... because she is present there and there are military bases; Above all, the Russians, with the Iranians and now the Turks, decided that their strategic interests justified the continued power of Bashar al-Assad. What are our fundamental interests? Did France even define them one day? However, we should have been educated by the Iraqi case! As in Iraq, the elimination of a dictator would not be enough to lay the foundations of a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u31	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u32	Like in Iraq, we're dealing with a civil war. Like Iraq, Syria is a complex country, ethnically and religiously. And yet, we continue to leave our real goals blurred. I understand that the departure of Bashar al-Assad was no longer a central objective for France. We should confirm that this is the case, Prime Minister. And if so, why don't we work on a solution shared with Russia? [[Applause on several benches of the LR group. – Ms Marielle de Sarnez and Ms MarineLe Pen also applaud]] I remember President Chirac's reaction when, in 2003, he refused France's commitment to the Iraqi quagmire. "To break away from the legitimacy of the United Nations, to favour force over law would be to take a heavy responsibility": these were his words. We think, more than ever, that he was right, because it is a constant line of French diplomacy. He was right, because a permanent member of the Security Council must respect international law. What will we say when others intervene without a UN mandate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u33	So what? Shouldn't we do nothing?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u34	What about resolution 2118?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the FI and GDR groups, on some benches of the UDI-Agir group, as well as among non-attached MPs]] We consider that respect for international law, in the long term, reinforces the voice of France. By aligning ourselves with American positions, we renounce a form of singularity in France. After five years of trial and error sometimes, I fear that France has again chosen isolation in the Levant; Isolation that will prevent him from weighing on the course of things. You have announced political and diplomatic initiatives, but we have not been reassured – neither by the words of the President of the Republic nor by yours, Prime Minister. We did not understand, in truth, first, whether Russia and the regional powers were credible interlocutors and desired by France, second, whether Bashar al-Assad was in France's eyes an actor in the global settlement. We think that it is time to tell the French what we are looking for in Syria and what our objectives are – if we have them. Otherwise, Saturday's airstrikes would only have been the manifestation of a form of impotence on the bottom. Some media and himself may be tempted to accredit that President Macron is, in this case, a warlord, but that is not the case; He is the Head of State, the Head of the Armed Forces, who must act, first of all, and even only, to defend the vital and strategic interests of the French nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u36	That's what he does!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u37	We recommend that he place his action in the long course of French diplomacy. National representation, too, is the custodian of this legacy. She has a say. I say again: there was no prohibition on a vote by Parliament. By deciding alone to intervene without a mandate from the United Nations, the President of the Republic crossed a line. We regret it. We regret that, because that is what the successive heads of State had built most valuable to guarantee France's independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u39	Every time France weighed, it made its voice heard, as in Iraq in 2003, it was faithful to its mission, it was stronger, it was respected. What we expect from the President of the Republic is a clear diplomatic and military vision, an expression of independence for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u41	Prime Minister, I asked you yesterday in Matignon about the information that justified the strikes. I asked you if this information came from our own services. You said yes to me. I took note of that. This is an essential question for us. It is at the cost of transparency and trust between the Government and its opposition that we will be able to support France's initiatives after strikes that are, of course, an operational success, but nothing at this time says that they are a political success, or that they will allow us to make progress towards a solution in Syria. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the FI and GDR groups, on some benches of the UDI-Agir group, as well as among non-attached Members]] I must tell the truth, after listening to you yesterday and today, that the usefulness of French strikes in Syria remains to be demonstrated. We are concerned that by intervening without a mandate, France has become even more isolated in this region of the world, where, however, the links it has had should have enabled it to play a role commensurate with its history. This is a missed opportunity for us, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u42	The next speaker is Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the facts: France and its allies gathered evidence confirming the Syrian regime's use of chemical weapons in Duma on 7 April. As a result, France, together with the United Kingdom and the United States, has decided to conduct a military operation to destroy several sites directly related to the Damascus regime's chemical weapons programme. It was under these conditions that the French forces were engaged on the night of Friday to Saturday. [[Applause on several benches of MODEM, LaREM, LR, NG, UDI-Agir groups]] I would like to pay tribute here to our armed forces, who have once again demonstrated their effectiveness and professionalism. That's for the facts. It was France's duty to act. Indeed, the evidence gathered by our services points directly to the responsibility of the Syrian regime and feeds into the already very heavy case of the use of chemical weapons by the latter. As we know, many of the attacks have been since the terrible massacre of the Ghouta on 21 August 2013 – it is enough to recall the sarin gas attack of 4 April 2017 on Khan Sheikhoun, who killed more than eighty people – until the attack of 7 April 2017; All of us have seen the unbearable photos of the victims, photos of this barbarity. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] These attacks are unacceptable and ongoing violations of international law, which require a very firm response. Some raise the question of the value of such action. For our part, we are among those who think that after five years of negotiations, unsuccessful diplomatic actions, signatures of conventions and unfulfilled promises, crossing once again the red line of the use of chemical weapons required us to take, this time – I was going to say: finally! –, our responsibilities. International law allows us to take such action: it is clear that the Syrian regime has not complied with the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which it ratified in 2013, nor with UN Security Council resolution 2118, a resolution just recalled by the Prime Minister, which provides for sanctions, in the event of a violation, up to the use of force. I believe that this text, which was adopted unanimously, has the virtue of being clear. All of this made it an obligation for us to act. The Syrian regime knew that and was exposed to a reaction from the international community. It is the lot of the latter to be regularly tested by those who intend to avoid the common rules that we have set ourselves. Some accused France and its allies of intervening even before an independent investigation was conducted on the spot to confirm the reality and, where appropriate, the origin of the attacks, but it is to be forgotten that Russia opposed in 2017 the renewal of the joint United Nations/Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons investigative mechanism and, last Tuesday, the draft resolution proposed by the United States and supported by France, aimed at creating an investigative instrument. This is still what happened today, with the refusal of inspectors to access the Duma site. Faced with this blockage, France and its allies have assumed their responsibilities, with all the legitimacy required. We have done so in the continuity of France's words since 2013, and even though the President of the Republic had clearly set the limits during his meeting with Vladimir Putin in Versailles last May. Our Russian partner cannot be surprised by France's willingness to uphold each other's commitments. The French Government, since the beginning of the Syrian crisis, has always been very clear on its categorical opposition to the use of these weapons in Syria and elsewhere, as well as on the need to punish those who use them. In the summer of 2013, France was already on the initiative, and it is regrettable, given the current facts, that the agreement reached at the time between the United States and Russia to dismantle the Syrian chemical arsenal did not reach its goal. When commitments are made, they must be respected, under the penalty of encouraging global disorder and allowing the actors of the conflict to act with impunity without fear of reaction. That is the whole meaning of reprisals on the night of Friday to Saturday, and we credit the President of the Republic for having kept his word with courage. At the operational level, we have independently demonstrated our capacity for action. Our army has proved once again, this weekend, its ability to project itself towards targets defined by our government. She was not drawn into any gear because she acted accurately and proportionately. France and its allies have taken the time to identify and target sites directly related to the Syrian chemical weapons programme and to ensure that collateral damage is as limited as possible. Basically, the French strategy for resolving the Syrian conflict must not change. We must first reaffirm the urgency of a ceasefire and humanitarian action. In seven years, this conflict has caused more than 350,000 deaths, many of them civilians, more than 6 million internally displaced persons and nearly 5 and a half million refugees. It's more than time for this to stop! It is time for us to give hope to the Syrian people, who are suffering every day from the most brutal attacks, whether chemical or conventional, of the regime and other belligerents. At the same time, we must reaffirm that the solution to the conflict is political and requires a genuine compromise between all parties to the conflict, without exception. This political solution is an absolute twofold necessity: for the fight against terrorism, which remains the highest priority, and for the future of the Syrian people. France must continue to take the initiative, as it has done in recent months, and work together with the United States, Great Britain, Russia, Iran and Turkey, which support each of the local actors. It is imperative to maintain channels of discussion with all these States. In this regard, we welcome the willingness of the President of the Republic to bring together all the actors involved in the region around the table and the initiative taken at the United Nations today. It is the honour and duty of France, in a landscape where the interests of the world's powers are increasingly intertwined, to never break the dialogue in order to win peace. We had to have a strong and firm voice to uphold a certain idea of humanity. France, through this action, has done so. We fully assume the decision taken a few days ago by the President of the Republic and support the idea of making every effort to create the conditions for a political and diplomatic resolution of this conflict. In Syria and elsewhere, we must always be concerned about promoting respect for international commitments, giving priority to collective security and safeguarding dialogue. To remain silent was to condemn oneself to be passive spectators of barbaric acts and, in a way, to legitimize them. Ladies and gentlemen, no democratic actor can thus allow the violation of international law and the most elementary respect for the civilian population. No democratic force can remain subject to the goodwill of a dictator who has constantly betrayed the word given. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups, as well as on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Since 2011, the escalation of horror has only worsened and barbaric acts have multiplied. Because we are a strong power, a permanent member of the Security Council of the United Nations, and an listened diplomacy that has always been able to make a singular voice heard, we had to act, imposing the most basic right by force if necessary, and engaging in constant dialogue with the actors of this conflict in order to seek the paths of peace. These are France's road map and vocation. And that is why the MODEM and related groups fully support the President of the Republic and the Government in their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u44	Mr Franck Riester, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of Friday to Saturday, France took on its responsibilities by participating in Syria, alongside its American and British allies, in an intervention against the chemical arsenal of the criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] First of all, I wanted to thank you, Prime Minister, for respecting the national representation by keeping Parliament informed throughout this sequence, including by meeting yesterday in Matignon and organizing this afternoon's debate with the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u47	On the other hand, I would like to recall that in Syria, the war has already left nearly 400,000 people dead and 12 million displaced, in an area transformed into a vast "torture room", as denounced by the UN Commission of Inquiry in Syria. For we cannot pretend to ignore it: the rules of international law have been flouted in this country. Once again, chemical weapons have been used. To do nothing would have been an admission of impotence, a renunciation;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u49	... to do nothing would have been to admit that treaties that protect peoples can be trampled without consequence; nothing would have been unworthy of France's commitment to respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u51	So yes, we had to act. But first we had to make sure, as your government did, Prime Minister, that certain conditions were well met.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u52	What about the Kurds? What about Benghazi?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u53	First of all, it had to be confirmed that attacks with chemical weapons, resulting in deaths, by the armed forces of the Bashar al-Assad regime, had been carried out on the Duma neighbourhood on 7 April 2018 at the end of the afternoon. This confirmation, the French services provided you, no doubt possible, and it was supported by the NGOs active on the ground, who denounced strikes that caused the death of several dozen people by chemical agents. I would add that these victims of chemical attacks are unfortunately far from being the first. The evidence is consistent. As a result, the Union of Relief and Medical Organisations reports nearly 187 chemical attacks and more than 15,000 victims since the beginning of the conflict. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] I say this to those who are criticizing the intervention today, from the far left to the far right through the Republicans: to close their eyes again would have been to condemn themselves to inaction, with serious consequences for the people of the region and for the weight of France in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u54	Follower!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u55	The international community could not remain passive in the face of crimes of this magnitude. On the other hand, this intervention is part of the international community's approach to combating the use of chemical weapons. I would like to recall that our country has always been an active participant in the elaboration of the global conventions for the prohibition of the use of chemical weapons, and is a diligent guardian of the treaties on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is also in Paris, ladies and gentlemen, that the Convention was signed in 1993 which, as a result of the international disarmament treaty, prohibits the development, manufacture, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. Twenty years later, United Nations Security Council resolution 2118, in accordance with its article 21, requires Syria to undertake to dismantle its chemical arsenal in its entirety, under the penalty of military action. This resolution was adopted unanimously. However, Russia invariably uses its veto power against any planned intervention to enforce it. The hypocrisy of such an attitude should not distract us from legitimate action in the face of the responsibility to protect the peoples of the international community when faced with violations that, to quote Kofi Annan, "contrary to all the principles on which our condition of being human is based". [[Exclaims on FI banks]] On Saturday, at the UN Security Council, Russia failed to pass a draft resolution condemning the strikes in Syria, since only three out of fifteen members voted for the text, which demonstrates the broad support of the international community for this joint operation with our permanent allies of the Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u56	You're watching too much TV!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u57	The third condition, in our view, was that our strikes should be limited to the production and storage capacities of chemical weapons. This was the case, since the intervention targeted the main research centre and two production centres of the clandestine chemical programme of the Bashar al-Assad regime. The twelve missiles fired by France have all achieved their objective, and we can welcome that. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups, as well as on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, there was a need to prevent the risk of military escalation, which was very real in the region. Thus, Russia has been warned of the start of the operation, in particular via the de-conflixion channel, this mechanism put in place between the commands of the armies operating in Syria in order to avoid any incident. The observance of these conditions legitimises the intervention of France, and the IDU group, Agir et indépendants supports the decision of the President of the Republic. In this Chamber, I would like to pay tribute to the professionalism of our armed forces. France can honour itself to be able to participate in an operation of such precision without regretting any victims. Crossing the red line of the use of chemical weapons, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer be without consequences. Undoubtedly, such action reinforces the credibility of France's words. However, we must be aware that these strikes, as useful as they were in terms of the symbol of firmness and determination in our fight for respect for human rights, do not exempt us from a more comprehensive reflection on the resolution of the Syrian conflict itself. We trust our diplomacy to make a full contribution to it. We are convinced that the solution, apart from people's issues, must belong to the Syrian people themselves, through free and democratic elections that will make it possible to designate legitimate leaders and a representation of all the components of the conflict.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u59	Indeed, only a fair representation of all Syrian minorities would allow for lasting peace and peaceful reconstruction of the country. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM and FI groups]] But for this, we must first definitely defeat Daesh, whose emergence was an additional disruptive element of the situation in Syria. The victory against Daesh must remain France's number one priority in the Levant. I would also like to alert national representatives to the humanitarian situation of our Kurdish allies, whom it is essential to support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u60	As if we didn't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u61	Once this victory has been achieved, our country will have to assume its role, within Europe, in working towards the end of the civil war. This exercise will require a frank dialogue with all the powers that are directly or indirectly involved in the Syrian conflict: Russia, Turkey, Iran and the United States in particular. However, we must be aware that there will be no lasting solution if it threatens the security of Syria's neighbours in the long term: I particularly stress this point. We are also convinced that the restoration of trust relations with Russia and Turkey, which have a key role in the conflict, will require Europe to propose a new form of partnership to these two great nations, located in its immediate environment. Indeed, while it is understandable that Russia wishes to maintain the conditions for securing its trade routes in the Mediterranean and that Turkey wishes to avoid a destabilization of its national unity, it is our duty, for the very stability of Europe, to prevent these two major states from engulfing themselves in a nationalist and imperialist logic. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups, as well as on several benches of the MODEM group]] Just as there will be no lasting peace in Syria without Russia and Turkey, there will be no lasting stability for Europe, without the search for a new relationship with our close neighbours, on the basis of a project capable of transcending peoples and diverting States from the tensions that divide us. At a time when we need more than ever to build and maintain peace in Syria, we will have to regain the courage and spirit of the founding fathers of Europe, the very ones who allowed our continent to live the longest period of peace in two millennia. There is never peace without courage. May their example inspire us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u62	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u63	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday, at two o'clock in the morning, French time, France, together with the United States and the United Kingdom, carried out strikes on Syrian soil aimed at installations identified as chemical weapons manufacturing plants. On Saturday, at two o'clock in the morning, French time, our army, with its aviation and ships, was engaged by the President of the Republic, carrying out targeted strikes on foreign soil, more than 3000 kilometres from our borders. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Here I wish to commend his professionalism and efficiency, as well as the courage of all the soldiers who have been mobilized for this operation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] On Saturday at 2 a.m. French time, France, together with two permanent Member States of the Security Council, intervened in Syria in the name of compliance with UN Resolution 2118, Article 21 of which provides for the possibility of a military response in the event of the use of chemical weapons. But on Saturday at two o'clock in the morning, French time, France, for the first time in its contemporary history, conducted military operations outside its borders without an explicit mandate from the United Nations. Prime Minister, we understand the philosophy of the approach taken by the President of the Republic. We are here, all of us, the heirs of the Enlightenment, ardent defenders of a concept born in France more than two hundred years ago: the universality of human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u64	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u65	Since 1945, this principle of universality has been at the heart of the foundation of our world order. For example, René Cassin, the father of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, referred to this "a monument to the right of people, protecting men from all places, territories, confessions, without concern to know the regime of States or other human groups in which they live". Prime Minister, the universality of human rights is only powerful because it is governed and protected by an international legal framework. Creating a breach, however small, in this legal framework may lead to the risk of undermining the universality of all these rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u66	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u67	Last Saturday, France and its allies created a breach. Admittedly, it is in the name of compliance with UN Resolution 2118, which aims to protect the Syrian civilian population from chemical attacks, thus from respect for human rights, that the President of the Republic has called the French army into Syria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u68	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u69	In doing so, it wished to ensure respect for international law, but it did so outside the framework provided for by the same law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u70	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u71	[["That's not true! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] As representatives of the nation, therefore guarantors of its physical and legal protection under international rules, you will understand that your position questions us, since, in fact and contrary to what you may have indicated, you have placed France outside the international legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u72	You just said the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u73	However, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we can only join you when it comes to working for the legitimate observance of Security Council resolutions, voted to preserve human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u74	Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u75	If we find ourselves today in this particular situation where, in order to enforce a United Nations resolution, France is outside the framework of those resolutions, it is mainly because of the veto power granted to five Member States. In humanitarian matters, this veto, which has led to numerous blockages, is indirectly responsible for thousands of deaths, which could have been avoided if the international community had responded. So, Prime Minister, the New Left Group on whose behalf I am speaking before you, is asking you to take an initiative with the United Nations to change this right of veto.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u76	That's all he'd miss!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u77	Already, in October 2013, Laurent Fabius, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, had formulated an equivalent perspective:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u78	Nostalgia!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u79	... "It is for the five permanent members of the Security Council to carry out voluntary supervision of the veto on their own. This development would take place without amendment of the Charter and through mutual commitment by the permanent members. In concrete terms, when the Security Council had to decide on a situation of mass crime – and that is the case – the permanent members would commit themselves to renounce their veto power." Mr Prime Minister, to break the legal deadlock in which we have the right of veto in international matters means to support this proposal. We ask you to do so very solemnly. Without this veto, which was used by Russia, France would have had formal permission to intervene to enforce resolution 2118. Prime Minister, France has acted both for international law and outside it. It has also acted – I insist on this point – without its partners in the European Union. So let me ask you: have you, or have you not, asked our partners in the European Union to participate in the strikes on chemical weapons factories in Syria? If the answer is positive, do you confirm that all the countries you contacted refused to participate in the operation that France and its allies led? If the answer is negative, why did you consider it preferable not to involve our European partners, even though the President of the Republic, in his speech by the Sorbonne, called for "a common doctrine to act" and, more importantly, for "a common strategic culture"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u80	It was a long time ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u81	We Socialist and related Members consider that France's international strategy should be based on enhanced European cooperation, which is the only position that can reaffirm our sovereignty in the international context we know. Yes, our sovereignty passes through Europe! The geopolitical scale is redistributed with, on the one hand, Russia to the east, which works to strengthen its positions in the Near and Middle East as well as in the Balkans, and, on the other hand, in the west, an American partner whose unpredictability can be called into question. This development to the east and west risks de facto leading Europe to become a spectator of its own destiny, which is in total contradiction with the work of European construction carried out over the past sixty years. It also inevitably leads to the establishment of populisms of all kinds. Being in charge of its political destiny means for Europe to organise a common European defence and a common position in the face of the geostrategic developments of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u82	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u83	With this in mind, the New Left Group notes that other countries are making proposals to try to remove the institutional blockage which, on certain decisions, and in particular on foreign policy, condemns Europe on the spot. For example, the German Social Democratic Minister for Foreign Affairs, Heiko Maas, is advancing the use of the so-called "bridge" clause, included in the Lisbon Treaty, which allows for the extension of qualified majority voting to the entire foreign policy decision-making process, provided that it is supported by a majority of MEPs and adopted unanimously by the leaders of the European Union. Prime Minister, how do you respond to this proposal, so that Europe can regain the voice it has lost on the international stage?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u84	[[Smile]] Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u85	Finally, these strikes are based on the question of France's strategy in Syria. In 2015, the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, then Minister of Defence, published a book entitled Evocative, Who Is the Enemy? ,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u86	Very good reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u87	Listen to Mrs. Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u88	... recalling the need to be able to answer this question prior to the construction of any strategy. So, Prime Minister, I am asking you today the same question: who, at this moment, is the enemy against which France is fighting? Is this Bashar al-Assad? Faced with the impasse in the Geneva 2 peace talks, how does France, together with Europe, intend to reinitiate a process of discussion, involving Russia, Turkey and Iran? Can the implementation of already approved Resolutions 2254 of 2015 and 2401 of 2018 ever be effective? Without this process of discussion between all partners, there will be no peace in Syria. There will be no peace in Syria, and there will probably be growing divisions within NATO. In conclusion, avoiding the situation on Saturday, when France acts both for international law and outside it, requires two fronts: the reform of the veto of the five permanent members in humanitarian matters and the reform of European defence. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Prime Minister, you will have our support in carrying out these projects. It's up to you to tell us, if you accept the challenge of wearing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u90	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u91	At this time, France, a part of a military intervention that the whole world observes, is probably also observed as it deliberates. The world will see that the French National Assembly is shared between those who have reasons, whom they defend and argue, to approve this action, and those who, like us, the popular opposition, are hostile to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u92	People's opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] This discussion does not weaken us. It shows us for what we are: a democracy and the matrix of all the republics of the modern era. But whatever the nature of the reasons which oppose us, it is necessary for everyone to hear the common position of the French throughout the whole world, from one end of this House to the other. All the opinions of the French say that those who resort to chemical weapons must be punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u94	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u95	Not too soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u96	The use of chemical weapons is prohibited. We, the French, have particular reasons to insist on this point. First, because our nation was martyred, but then because it was in Paris, and on our initiative, that the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons was adopted in 1993.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u98	It must be remembered that on this occasion, alas! We had not been able to obtain that the powerful sign the agreement proposed by the French, which also concerned the prohibition of bacteriological weapons. Let us hope that we never have to blame him for those who, at that time, refused to sign. From that, I mean how we see what happened. We intervened militarily in the worst hornet nest on the planet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u99	We did the right thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u100	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...and even more agitated by the fact that there are 42% of the gas reserves of the universe, and 47% of those of oil, which gives each one powerful reasons to act and feel concerned. We cannot simply say that only morals guide our steps because, then, it is surprising that this has not led us to rescue the unfortunate Rohingyas, of whom everyone knows that they are persecuted, or, on the same territory, the unfortunate Kurds, of whom everyone also knows that they are abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on several benches]] Nor can we make it appear that by bombing, we are only driven by the desire to uphold United Nations resolutions, otherwise we would do the same for those concerning Palestine or Cuba.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u104	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u105	You can scream, colleagues. I don't argue, I argue. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is in this context, in which the morals and the follow-up to United Nations resolutions do not find as complete as you think they are, that we have intervened. No proof.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u106	Lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u107	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u108	I do not say without certainty or conviction. I am not saying that our services are not able to assess exactly what is happening. However, in international law and in international action, action can only be taken on the basis of evidence affirmed by the bodies responsible for it. However, they were investigating at the time the bombings took place: the particular branch of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which was responsible for determining whether such weapons had been used, was indeed in the process of conducting its investigation when we acted. Then we acted without a mandate from the United Nations. This is probably the most important blow to France's diplomacy. I would add that, not only did we have no mandate from the United Nations, but we did not take any account of the regional organizations concerned, at least as much as the Western ones, by the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u109	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Breaking the eve of the Arab League meeting, without taking any account of what might be said about it; to take no account of the Organization of African Unity, which has since expressed itself, is to continue the old method of imperial powers, which do not take account of the peoples, on whose behalf they claim to act. I am sorry to say that because I would rather not have to tell you this given the idea that I have of my homeland, we have intervened without any ally of the European Union, which shows enough what smoking is the idea of a common defence and army.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u111	What about the English?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u112	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We intervened without a specific political objective – the rest showed us. Colleagues, I know we're counting time, but listen to me! We all listened to the President of the Republic on Sunday night. We heard him say that he had refrained from attending the Astana meeting. What do we want? The success of the trio of Astana, which brings together Turkey, Russia and Iran, to name but a few? Do we want him to achieve his ends? Or do we prefer to support the Geneva process, which is not moving forward? Or are we relying on another international organization, of which we propose that it meet? We don't know that. What, then, is the precise objective, apart, of course, from the desire to regain peace, friendship, harmony and love, which moves us all with the same energy? What do we want? Finally, we intervened without any convincing military objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u113	Yes! The destruction of chemical acts!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u114	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to welcome your behaviour towards parliamentarians, in any case towards my group: you have warned me that you will be holding a meeting on Sunday, and we have been able to exchange with the concern for the responsibilities that we exercise, you very eminently, as group chairman. I asked you only one question, which I allow myself to repeat before the National Assembly: what risks were we running, and what measures had we taken to avoid escalation? It's the only thing that matters, when you hit, how far you'll have to hit again. Now I said it was the worst hornet nest. Prime Minister, you told me, as everyone was able to verify afterwards, that all the steps had been taken to prevent this escalation, that is to say, we respected the de-confliction codes on the area. What is deconfliction? This is to avoid surprise effects. The war being made of surprises, it means that, for the most part, we say what we are going to do, and where we are going to go. This explains why the Russians looked at all this very quietly, without firing a single munition: they knew – and you did well to warn them – that they would not be targeted at any time. That's a lot of things that leave you dreaming. What results have been achieved? Why aren't we told? Are we unable to hear it? We struck, it seems, two assembly plants, without releasing a single little breath of unclean air in the area around it – we didn't kill anyone and I am glad, and I understand that we tried to avoid killing people. But after the situation reached its climax, after we heard, the next day, the President of the French Republic say that he had convinced Mr Trump to stay there to finish the work, and others mention a chemical weapons plan that would have developed, without one realizing it, for many weeks, less than twenty-four hours after, the President of the United States indicated that the American forces were going to leave. So much so that all this is more like a farewell salve than a military fire aimed at restoring a situation. [[Smile on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on the benches of the LR group]] [["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The truth is behind the curtain. That is why I would like you to clarify the content of the conceptual innovations of yesterday's evening. What is a declaration of war that is not a declaration of war, when you attack a country more than 3000 kilometres away? Should we consider that bombing three factories is not a declaration of war and that, therefore, at Pearl Harbor, it is not the war, which began?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u115	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u116	A declaration of war would have imposed on us a debate in Parliament. And this is the first blow I see at what happened: if the President of the French Republic said, as early as May, that there was a red line not to be crossed, what, since May, has prevented us from discussing it here, and that we are establishing a protocol to punish those who come to use chemical weapons? Nothing! And yet, it has not been done. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] What does the Prime Minister mean, Mr President, by the so-called "legitimacy of multilaterality", which was mentioned yesterday? For a Frenchman, there is only one legitimacy or, more precisely, there are two ways to act. As far as our national territory and our peoples are concerned, there is no limit to our decision but our own will. As far as the concert of nations is concerned, we believe in an orderly world, not a multipolar world, for it is always war to know who among the multipolars is the first. An orderly world around the law, which takes precedence over force, is what we believe in, that is to say, the United Nations. We are in the BRICS world – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. It's over when, in a few countries, we could decide for everyone; Just stand there and say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u117	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u118	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, the French military have obeyed orders with professionalism and competence, but the problem is order. While the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons was scheduled to begin its investigation on Saturday into a suspected chemical attack by Bashar al-Assad in Syria, Damascus woke up in the early morning to the sound of American, British and French missiles. We have no doubt that Bashar al-Assad is capable of the worst, but we had to wait for the opening and conclusion of the international investigation to establish the facts and evidence, to identify those responsible, to give legitimacy to any response. However, without waiting for irrefutable evidence, these three countries took responsibility for carrying out illegal acts of war, without a United Nations mandate, in a single desire to retaliate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u119	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u120	These military strikes attest to the irresponsibility of these three powers, which once again gave way to the temptation to play the role of world gendarmerie more anachronistic, ineffective and perilous than ever before. While the attack on Saturday is hardly surprising given the interventionist tradition of the United States, French follow-up is more surprising, in the light of the principle of national independence based on the values of peace and multilateralism. It is true that the Sarkozy and Holland presidencies marked an Atlanticist turning point, today confirmed by President Macron. The tradition of national independence made our singularity and greatness; his questioning raises the question of our place in the world. Is France condemned to align itself with the American will and strategy defined by the Trump administration and its army of super-faults, a febrile administration that no longer controls or dominates the international order, facing Moscow, Tehran and Beijing? By responding to Trump's injunction to respond to the chemical attack attributed to the Syrian regime, France has again made the choice of preventive war, a choice that does not open any strategic and political perspective to get the country out of the chaos in which it is plunged. Under no circumstances should the fight against Daesh be diverted. I appreciate, Prime Minister, that you mentioned this point in your speech, because you did not address it so much at the Sunday morning meeting. Let's remember, our enemy is Daesh. [[Mr Meyer Habib protested]] We have to go back to the fundamentals. Israel takes advantage of this war to bomb – like last Sunday – Syrian infrastructure from Lebanon, where Iranians are present, and takes advantage of the diversion to bomb simultaneously the Gaza Strip. The Turks massacre the Kurds in the north of the country; The French, the British and the Americans take the opportunity to attack Syrian positions. The Russians are ready to do anything to maintain the power of Bashar al-Assad. Rather than leaving in every direction, let us refocus the international presence on the fight against Daesh; Otherwise, she has nothing to do in the area. It is not too late for France to assume its responsibility and its sense of audacity on the international stage, and to renew its tradition and culture of opposition to any form of domination. This singularity, we were so proud of it, when, courageously, in 2003, France opposed the war in Iraq, denouncing the false propaganda of the Americans in an attempt to justify their destructive enterprise of Iraq. France had then refused to give in to the diplomacy of emotion and commercial interests, preferring the diplomacy of reason. However, in recent years it has been customary because it is at war in Africa and the Middle East, as has just been recalled. These are tragedies that have provided a breeding ground for the spread of Daesh's deadly ideology. For all these past mistakes, it would be logical for national representation to be fully involved in the initiation and monitoring of these military operations. Until today, this is not the case. Our Parliament has been left out of the decisions that launched these all-out operations. What is the point of speaking out once the weapons strike? Even yesterday, the President was satisfied with this real blind spot of the Fifth Republic. It is also unbearable to see how, from New York to Paris, our political power justified the attacks of this weekend: moral lessons, always moral lessons! But no one listens to them anymore, since it is in the name of these lessons of democratic morality that the worst military adventures, for example in Iraq or Libya, are occurring. Tomorrow, Bashar al-Assad will have to be tried for the unbearable crimes against his own people. Others should be, too, perhaps. But today, whether we regret it or not, any political solution must go through it. The indignation against the Syrian leader is just and salutary, although it hardly masks France's diplomacy with variable geometry. That is precisely what undermines the lack of credibility that it still has. The current alliances with the most reactionary governments, such as those of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, must be reconsidered in the light of criteria other than the sale of arms, especially when French weapons contribute to an iniquitous and bloody war against the people of Yemen. But the horror of Yemeni chaos is not the subject of any form of interest on the part of the three Western powers. This selective indignation is unbearable. Moreover, the strikes in Syria were justified by infamous diplomatic concepts: that of the "free world" in France and that of the "civilized world" in the United States. These words should never find their place in responsible diplomacy, for, which says free world, says non-free world, and which says civilized world, says non-civilized world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u121	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u122	Who's the enemy? The question was asked earlier. The minister of armies has explained to us in this Chamber that our enemies are those who were not our allies. These virile and brutal conceptions of international relations only cause divisions and stigma within the international community. Who can still say today that the Iraqi and Libyan wars caused by the so-called free world have offered democracy and freedom to these peoples? Thus, responding to the crimes of the Syrian regime by military means alone, without a long-term political strategy for the return of peace, without a diplomatic initiative worthy of that name, is more a matter of posture and communication than of political commitment and humanitarian action. This very morning, Donald Trump, a part of this punitive expedition, confirmed his willingness to leave Syria as soon as possible, without worrying about the political future of this country. We don't mind, Russia has become central to the conflict. Today it is the only power to maintain dialogue with all interlocutors – one of the fundamentals of diplomacy that the French government seems to have forgotten. In other words, the return of civil peace to Syria also requires Russia and other regional actors, not only through Washington or Paris. To deny it is to show irresponsible naivety, and that is what has cost France its credibility in the Syrian case. We feel that several opportunities to make France's voice in favour of peace with Russia have been ruined, by calculations and other procrastination. Today, Trump wants to destroy the "Assad animal" regime, and we have been carried away in this illegal war. We regret the fact that the President of the Republic has led us into this warlike wake, the consequences of which will be dramatic. Should we, moreover, see a link between this act of gendarmerie of the world and the possession of nuclear weapons? However, France's role as an endowed State is not marginal. The Gaullist objective of French deterrence was national independence. Rather than using French nuclear deterrence to allow itself to attack a country illegally, it would be better to use it to force the parties to discuss it together. Only the opening of a constructive diplomatic dialogue between the regional Powers directly involved, on the one hand, and between the permanent members of the Security Council, on the other, would be effective. Our diplomacy must be more active and help bring the international community together by supporting all processes that will advance peace, such as those in Geneva and Astana. We, the Communist and ultramarine deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left Group, remain faithful to our principles and values of peace and democracy, can only condemn the punitive military strikes in Syria that the President of the Republic has decided without the approval of the UN or the French Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the FI group]] It is not too late, I repeat, for our country to regain its place on the international stage, in the hearts of peoples, and to be on the right side of history. Moscow did not close the door to a direct dialogue with France, including during an official visit by the Head of State to St. Petersburg at the end of May. We encourage him to seize this moment to silence the bombs and to find, together with Russia, a solution finally putting an end to the suffering of the Syrian people, who have felt abandoned for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u123	Mr José Evrard has the floor, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u124	So now, the worry is at its peak...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I condemn the decision of the President of the Republic to bomb Syria. This aggression by a sovereign State, carried out in conjunction with the United States and Great Britain, is morally unworthy, at the same time illegal from the point of view of law and illegitimate from the point of view of the Charter of the United Nations. By bombing a sovereign country without the approval of the Security Council, France is participating in the gradual disappearance of the legal system of the United Nations and is destroying its own veto power in the Security Council. Does France wish to put an end to international law and blindly follow the United States? Bill Clinton attacked Yugoslavia in a lenient violation of international law. George Bush Jr did the same against Iraq, Barack Obama against Libya and Syria. Donald Trump, on the other hand, never hid his aversion to international law. His silence on Yemen is proof of his connivance with the prince of Saudi Arabia. The act is frightening by the use of destructive weapons, and in so far as it is based on nothing: there is no evidence of the use by the Syrian army of chemical weapons and of the involvement of the Russian army.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u126	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u127	The argument of putting forward the certainty of the evidence while being questioned shows the embarrassment of the President of the Republic to the idea of bringing the country into the adventure. "We are certain of Bashar al-Assad's use of the chemical weapon," he said... and then added that it had to be checked. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] After the Foreign Minister's intervention on TF1 on 14 April, it seems that the testimonies on which France relied to decide to strike Syria are partly from social networks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u128	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u129	... these same social networks, which once aroused the greatest mistrust of the French government. I do not trust those who present themselves as warlords in doubting their certainty. The testimony and photographs of the terrorist nebula – the Syrian Office for Human Rights and White Helmets, among others – are evidence of fraud. We must therefore ask ourselves why our army participated in the aggression of sovereign Syria under these conditions. The action taken by the President of the Republic is a continuation of his predecessors. Since the outbreak of unrest in Syria in 2011, which has been disproportionately exacerbated by the West, the pressure on the country has never stopped. So, since 2011, our successive rulers have only made the Syrian difficulties worse to associate them with the chaos installed by Uncle Sam and reigning in the Iraqi neighbour. It is not necessary to belong to the Intelligence Service to understand that the appearance and extension of Daesh were widely approved and supported by the Westerners. According to Roland Dumas, the English were preparing for the war in Syria two years before the 2011 protests. Laurent Fabius praised the "good job" of Al-Nosra's terrorism, saying that President Assad had no place on earth. The DGSE was delivering weapons to the Islamists...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u130	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u131	...by order of President Hollande. Oil traffic was in full swing, bringing comfortable revenues to the running Caliphate. What a duplicity! The capture of Palmyra by Islamists removed from occasional observers any doubt about the Western struggle against Islamism. It was on that date that Russia responded favourably to Syria's request for assistance and ended what must be described as a tragedy. The aggression in which France participated last week corresponds precisely to the end of the war on Syrian territory. We are no longer in 2011 or March 2018: any act of war against Syria no longer has the same meaning. Will President Macron make the choice of war or peace? [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] With regard to Les Patriotes, of which I am the spokesman, we will oppose any new adventure, any further provocation of chemical attack. We now demand that all military personnel and equipment engaged in the area be repatriated as soon as possible as a sign of goodwill vis-à-vis the Syrian State and that, on the other hand, a debate be held in Parliament to examine the redress of the damage that French policy has caused to Syria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u132	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u133	It's shameful not to be patriotic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u134	Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u135	She'll raise the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u136	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Armed Forces, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, our debate is fully in line with the institutional balance set out in our Constitution. At the executive level, the commitment initiative, but the obligation to inform and report; in Parliament, control of the modalities and political objectives of the intervention. [[Applause on several benches of the LR,FI and GDR groups]] This debate is therefore a useful democratic exercise. But for the future, we will probably have to think about mechanisms that would give our Parliament better access, more upstream, to the information that commands the decision to commit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u138	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u139	The President of the Republic had made it clear that the use of chemical weapons in Syria, in violation of international law and Security Council resolutions, could not go unpunished. France's military intervention was therefore predictable, expected and in line with its commitments. This operation was carried out by France and its partners with responsibility, in a framework controlled, proportionate and limited to the desired effect: the destruction of the Syrian regime's chemical capabilities in order to prevent its further use. Any risk of escalation has been deliberately avoided. No civilian or military casualties are to be deplored. This intervention was carried out with respect for what makes the singularity and strength of the French position: autonomy and independence, both in terms of initiative and execution. It reflects France's particular responsibility as a permanent member of the Security Council, a responsibility that has emerged from history and even recent history, which makes our country consider it the most impartial guardian of the rule of international law and of the defence of human rights. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] It was in the name of these principles that France, in 2003, opposed the war in Iraq; It was these same principles that decided to put an end to the impunity of those who organized the chemical attacks. France must now relaunch the political and diplomatic process, because, as we all know here, there can be no military solution in Syria, and it is indeed a global strategy to exit the crisis that we must devote all our efforts. France's political objectives are known, they are being recalled at this very moment to the UN: the eradication of terrorism and the elimination of Daesh; the establishment of a mechanism for investigating chemical weapons; a ceasefire throughout Syria; access to humanitarian assistance for civilians; the establishment of a crisis exit plan that avoids both the partition of Syria and the exclusion of certain communities. [[MM. Meyer Habib and Maurice Leroy applaud]] France occupies a special place, a singular place. Today it is the only power in a situation to speak with confidence with all countries, and with the powers that exert their influence: Russia, Iran, Turkey. All interested communities should be involved; I am thinking in particular of the Kurds. This war has been going on for more than seven years. The record is terrible, it is appalling: more than 350,000 dead – 500,000, even some NGOs say – tens of thousands of enforced disappearances, millions of internally displaced persons and more than five million Syrians forced to leave their country. This terrible record dictates our duty and underscores its urgency. The voice of France, respected and committed, is one of the only voices that can be heard. Syria's future stability is the goal we must achieve; Our collective security depends on it. We know the way: a political agreement between all the parties, guaranteed by the international community, which gives the Syrian people responsibility for their future. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – MM. Meyer Habib and Maurice Leroy also applaud]] This path is probably difficult. But we are sure of at least one thing: for our country and for all those who listen to us in the world, there is no other.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u140	Mrs Françoise Dumas, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u141	[[Applause on all benches]] Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Armed Forces, Secretaries of State, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my remarks, I would like to have a special thought for our wounded soldiers this weekend in Mali. Our thoughts go to them, their families and their brothers in arms. On the night of Friday to Saturday, on the orders of the President of the Republic, the French armed forces, in coalition with the United States and Great Britain, intervened in Syria through air strikes and cruise missile fire, to destroy the Syrian regime's chemical weapons production, development and storage capabilities. The record of the 7 April attack, which led to these reprisals, is particularly heavy: more than 50 people were killed. The evidence gathered by France, coming from our own departments, partners or non-governmental organizations known for their reliability, has made it possible to establish with a high degree of confidence that the attack was chemical in nature and that it had been carried out by the Syrian regime's forces. This trivialization of the use of chemical weapons against civilian populations could not remain unanswered, as it constitutes a threat to collective security. Our intervention was based legally on United Nations Security Council resolution 2118, which paved the way for coercive action in the event of the regime's failure to fulfil its 2013 commitments to dismantle its chemical arsenal. Unfortunately, due to Russia's opposition to the Security Council, a concerted and strong response by the international community to the use of chemical weapons was impossible. The planning of the coalition's operations has taken into account the risk of military escalation, avoiding targets that could accommodate regime allied forces. The absence of civilian collateral casualties is another proof of the proportionality and accuracy of strikes. On behalf of the National Defence and Armed Forces Committee of the National Assembly, I would like to welcome the central place occupied by the French armed forces in this arrangement. As part of this operation, the National Navy deployed three multi-mission frigates, an anti-submarine frigate and an anti-aircraft frigate. It successfully launched three naval cruise missiles of a new type, which had never been used since they were put into service. The French air raid carried out by the Air Force from France, with five refuellings in flight and ten hours of flight in a row in combat conditions, mobilized the action of five Rafale, four Mirage 2000, two AWACS and several refuellers over a distance of more than 4000 kilometres. This particularly complex operation demonstrated, if necessary, the excellent planning of our staffs, the professionalism and courage of our military, and the quality of our equipment. The military tool is thus perfectly in line with our desire for strategic autonomy and decision-making, as allies within the coalition. In this sense, we once again welcome the relevance of the effort made towards the armies, within the framework of the military programming law 2019-2025. As the Minister of Armed Forces indicated on April 14, the operation is considered to have been completed, as it has met its objectives. We are now continuing our diplomatic efforts to reach an inclusive political solution. However, France, the United Kingdom and the United States have announced that such an initiative could be renewed in the event of the re-use of chemical weapons by the Syrian army or by the regime's proxy forces. However, the coalition must remain vigilant about the possibility of reprisals. Given the high risk, the British forces reinforced the air defence measures at their military base in Cyprus, from where the four Tornadoes who participated in the operation left. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the context of the blocking of the Security Council, these strikes can unlock the positions of the belligerents. They are part of a broader and coherent framework, that of negotiation for a political resolution of the conflict. France is committed to effective multilateralism, the foundation of its foreign policy. While the first objective is to combat the terrorist groups that threaten us, and first and foremost the Daesh organisation, France must also continue its efforts within international institutions to bring about a political solution to the conflict and stabilize the region. Solving the humanitarian crisis and putting an end to the suffering of the Syrian people is our responsibility, for France, in the concert of nations, always has a particular voice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u142	Prime Minister, you have wished to respond to the speakers. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u143	Allow me, Mr. Chairman, to thank, on behalf of the Government, all those who participated in this debate, in particular those who spoke on their behalf or in their capacity as committee chair or vice-chairman, and as chair or chair of a parliamentary group. I would like to stress the quality and importance of a debate like the one we are conducting. This has been said on several occasions, and such a debate honours democracies. This is not a formula. Indeed, only in democracies, exclusively, can representatives of the people and the head of Government debate and discuss, agree to hear disagreements, even if it is sometimes with annoyance. To accept these disagreements is the honor of democracies. This debate was public; He's not a member of one's own. It was free – obviously – and complete. The contradictory expressions are respectable, firstly because the subject is of formidable complexity and the stakes of considerable importance, but also because consensus on the measures decided by the President of the Republic is not an objective in itself. One cannot consider driving a country and maintaining international relations with the idea of an absolute consensus as the sole compass. We must ensure the progress of the country by being aware of its interests and the idea of the French Republic. This idea is not necessarily consensual, but it is no big deal; We can take care of it. Once again, it is the honour of democracies to allow it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] President Jacob, you have made criticisms based on two precedents and an unknown one. First of all, you referred to the question of the preliminary debate. As you know, the organisation of the debate provided for in Article 35(2) of the Constitution is the result of an amendment made in 2008. Why does the Constitution provide for information from Parliament – and not necessarily a debate – within three days of the intervention of the armed forces? Because he did not escape from the drafter of the Constitution that, in a military operation, the surprise effect was not negligible and could have an interest. This is probably the reason why, during the intervention in Libya, President Sarkozy did not choose, with his government, to hold a debate before the intervention of the external armed forces, but well after, within three days.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u144	We've been talking about it for a week!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u145	We were part of international law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u146	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is the same reason, I think, for the decision taken by President François Hollande and his government in 2013 to organise a debate after the intervention in Mali or after that in the Central African Republic, rather than before. If I always invoke with caution the donkeys of General de Gaulle, I do not imagine – I can be mistaken – that the initial conception of the constituent of the Fifth Republic was to ask Parliament for a public debate before the President of the Republic decides to hire the armed forces outside the territory. I say it with caution, because I wasn't there. But it seems to me to be quite a natural consequence of what I was able to read about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u147	Bizerte!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u148	We have to change all this!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u149	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Jacob, you also referred to the Iraqi precedent, comparing the decision taken by the President of the Republic with that of Jacques Chirac in 2003. This precedent is, in my view, not comparable, for two reasons. Firstly, the purpose of the operation in Iraq was to intervene on the ground and to bring down a regime, two elements that were not discussed in the action carried out a few days ago by the French armies. [[Same movements]] Secondly, one of the motivations of American intervention in Iraq was the alleged existence of weapons of mass destruction. In Syria, the use of chemical weapons is not alleged. It's proven! It's been repeated! It's proven!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u150	That's what the CIA said, too! With even photos in support...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u151	It seems to me that there is a significant difference that needs to be taken into account. Finally, Mr Jacob, you mentioned an unknown: what should be done. Shouldn't we act? Should the use of chemical weapons be tacitly accepted, with regret? You're talking about a political solution. You are right, and we are also in favour of it. We have even indicated that this political solution should be discussed at the Geneva Conference, in which we believe and invite all parties to participate, without ulterior thinking. Of course, we need a political solution. Everyone knows and shares this idea. But when the repeated use of the chemical weapon is proven, what should be done: simply say that a political solution is needed, when all the mechanisms to define it are blocked, or intervene? Is this political solution less achievable today than it was before the French intervention?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u152	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u153	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I don't believe it. I even tend to think that by being firm, clear and predictable, we are helping to make it clear to our partners and interlocutors, to those with whom we will have to define the political solution that you call for, that we are present and that we are determined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u154	What an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u155	Mrs Rabault, you asked us about the legal basis for French intervention, saying that it would weaken the international legal system for failing to respect the law. Listening to you, I wanted to ask a simple question: where is the system strengthened if impunity prevails in the use of chemical weapons?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u157	Where is the system strengthened if blockages lead to nothing and tacitly accept the most terrible violation of the prohibitions on the use of weapons under international law? You mentioned the French initiative taken in 2013 on the right of veto. This initiative was intended to intervene in only two cases: the proven blocking of the Security Council and the massive violation of humanitarian law. France has not changed its position. It continues to support this initiative, each of which will understand that the terms can only be considered if all veto holders agree in this regard. You also raised the issue of the solicitation of European allies. Let us say it as clearly as the Vice-President of the Defence and Armed Forces Committee has done, the capabilities for the design, planning, coordination and execution of the mission demonstrated by the French forces are unique in Western Europe. Of course, we need to engage more and more in a logic of strong cooperation with our European partners. However, let us not deny the obvious: at the moment when we are talking, this action could be carried out by France, together with the United Kingdom and the United States, but it was unlikely that it would be carried out with other countries. This morning, the European Union gave very broad support to the Franco-British initiative. Germany has also expressed its support, as you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u158	It's been complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u159	We consider, of course, that ever closer work with our European partners is essential in defence matters. Mr President Mélenchon, you have referred to the risk of escalation, in my view, according to a reasoning marked by a form of paradox. On the one hand, you defend the risk of climbing, when you seem to criticize, on the other, the fact that we have taken the necessary steps to prevent precisely this escalation... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have sent a clear message to the Syrian authorities and their allies. This message was not formulated by any follow-up of a great allied power; It was formulated in July 2017, with the announcement of a red line – an idea that can be perfectly criticized – made in the presence of the President of the Russian Federation. We have held our position, paying extreme attention to respect for some form of predictability and the codes that prevail in this area. Because we wanted, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to hit exclusively chemical and exclusively Syrian installations. It was important for everyone to know that once the red line was crossed, we would do so, and only so. This message is not motivated by territorial conquest or economic interest, but by the simple will to say loud and clear that the repeated use of chemical weapons is not possible for a State or for authorities. That is the message that we wanted to convey, and it seems to me, in a way, Mr. President, to correspond to the universal vocation that you sometimes defend. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, by listening to Mr Lecoq, I could not help but experience some form of nostalgia. For hearing a Communist deputy criticising the use of force in a joint action by France, Great Britain and the United States against an ally of Russia referred us to a grammar that may seem old.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u160	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u161	It's small!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u162	But the argument is important and I would like to stress a comment that you made, Mr President, on the alleged follow-up by the French authorities. No follow-up to the decision taken by the President of the Republic; He expressed the idea of a red line in a sovereign manner, in the presence not of the US President, but of the Russian President, while pointing out that in the past, other red lines might not have been respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u163	If everyone has a red line, then...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u164	There is no follow-up here – having allies does not imply anyone being a follower – but, on the contrary, the desire to preserve the autonomy of French decision-making and the clarity of our positions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing is probably before us, in the diplomatic initiatives that each of us on these benches has called for, in the multiple contacts that must allow us to participate in the construction of the political solution in Syria, in the credibility of our Republic when it designates the lines that it considers impassable. As I said earlier, our reaction to the use of chemical weapons says what we are. I am proud, on behalf of the Government and under the authority of the President of the Republic, to have told the world who we were.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u165	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-16-O1189.u166	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion of the bill on controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration after the accelerated procedure has begun. The meeting is adjourned.
