ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on freedom to choose one's professional future (No. 904, 1019, 975, 981). The remaining time for discussion of this text is seven hours and thirteen minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 279 amendments are under discussion; six hours fifty-three minutes for the Republican Group, of which 815 amendments are under discussion; two hours twenty-one minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 152 amendments are under discussion; three hours thirty-four minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, of which 155 amendments are under discussion; three hours thirty-one minutes for the New Left Group, of which 174 amendments are under discussion; two hours and fifty minutes for the La France group, 88 of which are under discussion; two hours forty-five minutes for the group of the Democratic and Republican Left...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u2	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u3	... of which 90 amendments are under discussion, and one hour and thirty minutes for non-attached Members, of which 68 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u4	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister of Labour, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, when you presented this reform alongside the Prime Minister, Madam Minister, you said that it would be a Copernician revolution and a real bigbang. We had to see what we were going to see: well, we saw! Above all, we have seen a bill collecting everything that deals with learning, equality between men and women, unemployment insurance and employment for people with disabilities. In this text, there is good and at least good: it is for this reason that our group abstained in the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs. Our final vote on your bill will depend, Madam Minister, on the debates we will have in this House and on the answers you will give to the questions that we have already asked you in committee, but on which we have still not received any answers. Apart from the part relating to unemployment insurance, it is impossible, with regard to this bill, to speak of a Copernician revolution. There are many issues on which we could have gone further, and others on which we do not understand the reasons for the change you impose. This is the case with the part devoted to learning: of course, the system required simplification. Complexity is a particularly French evil, and learning is no exception. It was too binding and unreadable for companies, even though it was necessary to facilitate the use of this type of contract. Thus, the procedure for registering contracts will be replaced by a simple filing procedure. The age limit to benefit from an apprenticeship contract is increased from twenty-five to twenty-nine years. This measure, which we had already put in place on an experimental basis in the Greater East region, is a good thing: learning must indeed evolve with its time. Thus, raising this age limit will benefit young people who do not always have a linear path and who need time to find their professional path, as well as those who wish to use the apprenticeship to acquire a higher level of diploma – III, II or I – not to mention the levels of diploma below the baccalaureate, which meet the wishes of some young people as well as the needs of the economic world. Without constituting a revolution, these measures are positive. This is also the case with the relaxation of the rules applicable to apprentice minors. So far, we found ourselves in a senseless situation: the young man, when he had reached his quota of hours, had to stop working and wait until his master of learning had finished his work! Learning is also about learning the rhythm of a trade, including those weeks where the workload is higher. While the regulation of so-called hazardous work has evolved, it is regrettable that a safety-related module is not systematically put in place at the start of the apprenticeship. You have also simplified the breach of the contract, Madam Minister. If the fear of breaking up is very anxious for employers in the case of a conventional contract, it is even more so in the case of an apprenticeship contract. It was therefore essential to simplify the arrangements for unilateral termination of the contract at the initiative of both the employer and the employee, while at the same time ensuring that the young person could continue his training at the end of this break. The real problem with this reform is the place you give to the regions, or rather you don't leave them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u7	I understand the philosophy behind the Government's desire to entrust learning to branches rather than to regions, taking the example of Danish and German models. However, Madam Minister, France is neither Germany nor Denmark. Thus, according to a 2017 report by the Directorate-General of the Treasury, there are 704 branch collective agreements in France, grouped for statistical purposes into 495 aggregated collective agreements, while Germany has only 150 branches. The system of social dialogue is also not the same: in Germany, companies are partners in real co-management and co-construction. Finally, Madam Minister, I will have to explain to you how the work that you felt was not well done by 18 regions will be better done by more than 400 branches which, moreover, do not cover all the employees of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u8	That's the central question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u9	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] Add to this that fewer than ten branches – and my estimate is wide – have the capacity and structuring to appropriate these new skills. As you know, I am an advocate of social dialogue as well as of the place of the social partners, that you are moving away both from unemployment insurance and from vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u11	This development seems to me to be very detrimental to the future. An example is the horse landing. If we in the Vosges need this ancestral and noble art, because some logging operations are not accessible to mechanical machinery, the need for this is limited to a few posts every two, three or five years. Which branch will be able to take into account these rare, very small contingents and at random periodicity? Of course, you will tell me, the regions will have the opportunity to fill in. Many rare trades and crafts may disappear, and it is not the crumbs that you leave to the regions that will allow them to solve this problem. Of course, companies and industries must take their full place in the learning system. The regions must involve them in the decisions, as I did when I was vice-president of the Greater East Region: they must indeed have control over the credentials of diplomas and exams. If the conditions for opening and closing sections within apprenticeship training centres – the CFAs – need to be relaxed in order to best meet the needs of the trades, removing from the regions the role of regulator that has hitherto been theirs will be more of an evil than a good.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u13	[[Mr. Stéphane Viry applauds]] Finally, this reform will lead to increased competition between vocational high schools and the CFAs. A real Copernician revolution should have led you to reconsider the place of professional high schools, but out of fear of national education, you have ignored this aspect of the question. Up to now, the region has been playing the role of regulator and financing the technical platforms of professional lycées, while at the same time paying attention to the specificities of the territories, limiting the effects of competition between CFA and vocational lycées. This will now be fierce, with the risk of the disappearance of vocational lycées, and hence the know-how of their teachers; This will only strengthen the territorial divide. But maybe that was your plan? As far as vocational training is concerned, you start from a postulate: each individual has to choose his/her professional future from his/her living room, using a smartphone. You are thus individualizing vocational training, which reminds me of the title of a law that we passed a few years ago. Again, Madam Minister, I understand your intention, even if I do not share it. It is completely in line with the macronian software: everyone manages with what he has, and how he can. In order to improve its readability, you say, you transform the personal training account, the CPF, by changing its unit of account: hours make way for euros. From now on, the employee will no longer have x hours to find training, but x divided by two in euros. If it is true that it will be easier for employees wishing to train to find training based on the amount available to them on their personal training account, this change will have many negative effects. For businesses first. Can you confirm to the national representative that, from an accounting point of view, the amounts of CPF of employees will not have to be recorded by the companies in their provisions? Can you indicate what effects such a reform will have on hiring, for example when a recruiter has a choice between two people, one of whom will have a CPF of 5000 euros and the other will not, knowing that the CPF follows the employee throughout his working life? Can you also reassure us about the employee's retirement? Thus, an employee retiring with a credited CPF of 5000 euros – and to whom you repeat that this account symbolizes his right to training and that it belongs to him – will either want to be paid for it or start a training course of convenience.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u15	What will then be the interest of such an evolution, both for society and for the company? As you can see, the CPF in euros gives rise to many fears. On this point, our debates in committee have not reassured me. You assured us that you would provide us with the answers in the Chamber: we are waiting for them. In addition to this, training rights will be reduced: the conversion of hours into euros will be detrimental to a large number of employees. Finally, since your reasoning is based on the total freedom of the employee, you simply exclude companies from it. However, the training of an employee must be carried out within the framework of his or her professional background and his or her possibilities of evolution both inside and outside the enterprise. But who better than the company in which he works can accompany him on this path? The training course must be co-built between the employee and his company: very few employees will be 100% self-sufficient as you assume, and those who will be least in need of training. Worse, the CPF you are proposing will increase the gaps and widen the inequalities: the training market will thus become a consumer market, to the detriment of the increase in the skills of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u16	With what impact!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u17	At the same time, we are witnessing a real recentralisation of vocational training by the State: the social partners are excluded, as are the joint collecting bodies approved, the OPCA, to which the collection is withdrawn. In addition, the Inter-Professional Committee for Employment and Training – COPANEF – and the Joint Fund for the Safeguarding of Career Pathways – the FPSPP – are abolished, and the regions excluded from the scheme. Everything is therefore recentralised in a new state machine, France Competencies, which will decide everything and in which – of course – the state will be the majority. We have recently witnessed a similar evolution with another organism under its control. However, the regions had taken their place in the framework of the 500 000 additional training courses for those seeking employment – originally announced to reduce unemployment: they mobilized for job seekers and their actions exceeded the objectives set. If the governance of vocational training was to be simplified, I doubt that this state of affairs would achieve this goal. I fear that France Competencies is just a National Council for Employment, Training and Career Guidance – a CNEFOP – bis, with a growing bureaucracy: in short, a machine to make things more complex. Finally, you are making a fundamental change in unemployment insurance. The candidate Emmanuel Macron had promised, during the presidential campaign, to restore purchasing power to the employees by abolishing the wage contributions. This abolition was introduced last year and offset by the increase in the generalised social contribution, the CSG. So far we have been operating in an insurance system, where everyone contributed as a percentage of their salary and received, in the event of difficulties, a replacement allowance. The system you are proposing, which effectively excludes the social partners, is to introduce a solidarity tax, financed by a share of CSG, the amounts of which will be fixed by the Social Security Financing Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u19	Thus, unemployment insurance will no longer be insurance, but a system of national solidarity. This is worrying, because when we hear the Minister of the Economy say that aid for the return to employment is useless, that the Minister of the Budget announces that there is too much national solidarity, we can expect the State to decide to reduce unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u21	And we are once again witnessing a recentralisation in this area. At the same time, what about the repayment of the €35 billion in accumulated debt of the National Interprofessional Union for Employment in Industry and Trade, UNEDIC? Minister, we denounce this change with the utmost vigour. You are indeed upsetting one of the pillars of France's social policy, in the absence of a prior national debate that would have made it possible to enlighten the French. Finally, your bill addresses many equally important issues, such as the work of persons with disabilities, equality between women and men, and secondment. We will address all of these issues in more detail during the review of the sections of this bill, hoping that it will give us an opportunity to get answers to the questions we asked in committee. We had put forward others during the examination of the bill that became the law of 29 March 2018 ratifying various orders made on the basis of Act No.2017-1340 of 15 September 2017 authorizing to take by ordinance the measures for the strengthening of social dialogue, without obtaining more answers. In conclusion, Madam Minister, the conditions for consideration of this bill are difficult to accept: you tabled thirty-two amendments on behalf of the Government in committee and, even before the bill was considered in public, thirty-three to my knowledge. This demonstrates the unpreparedness of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u22	That's good, it gives us ten minutes of more speaking time every time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u23	In addition, you have decided to incorporate the articles on equality between women and men and the employment of persons with disabilities by way of amendment, as your consultation on these two subjects was not completed when the bill was tabled. We are still waiting for answers to our questions. You thus bypass the Council of State, and put Parliament at the foot of the wall: it has unfortunately become a habit with this government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u24	An old and very bad habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u25	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Minister, we are approaching the consideration of this bill in an open and constructive but demanding manner. We want this requirement for France and for the French, because they deserve it. The topics covered by your project are indeed at the heart of our country's future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u26	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u27	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future is a major piece of legislation, with a view to establishing a society of competences to enable everyone to be emancipated through work. The title of the bill we are considering today has several meanings. To have the freedom to choose one's professional future, one must first have the means to make an informed choice about one's orientation, but also the right to be wrong and to change paths. We must also have the opportunity to adapt to a changing world and the chance to learn and relearn throughout our lives. The freedom to choose is also, regardless of gender, level of education, state of health, to be able to flourish in his work and evolve without sticks being put in our wheels. Our MODEM and related group welcomes the important work done by all those who contributed to the drafting of this text. The Government, first of all, has deployed a broad consultation with the actors in apprenticeship and vocational training. The rapporteurs, on the other hand, have organised a large number of hearings. As for the Members, they were able, through their group or personal approaches, to seize this text and to identify its strengths and weaknesses. Taking note of the shortcomings of the current organisation, both in terms of governance and efficiency in the use of the funds collected, it is proposed that, through Title I, the organisation which presides over apprenticeship and vocational training be radically recast. For both of these essential reforms, the proposed new legislative framework aims to increase the supply of training and facilitate its access to as many people as possible. With regard to apprenticeship, one of the keys to increasing the number of apprentices involved in this field of excellence is improving the information and guidance of young people. The bill strengthens regional prerogatives in this area. We hope that this change in responsibilities will lead to a strengthening of the position of the regions in the governance of ONISEP – National Information Office on Lessons Learned and Professions. The administrative burden of training creation and the way in which learning is financed are also obstacles to the development of learning. By freeing up opening opportunities in response to the actual needs of the market and by adopting the principle of contract financing, the number of places available is expected to increase considerably. However, the determination of the contract cost by the branches is not without question, since the cost would be uniform throughout the territory and the question of the cost of cross-sectional formations does not seem to be perfectly framed. Similarly, concerns are expressed about the remaining burden on small businesses. We will therefore present amendments with the aim of providing answers to these problems. If the regions are divested of their prerogatives of opening up training, they retain control of the investments and equalizations internal to each region that are part of their spatial planning missions. While the work in committee has made it possible to secure the investment envelope for them, we strongly hope that a similar provision can be adopted at the sitting to enable them to support the training courses they consider essential, even if they are not in a strictly economic equilibrium. Specific criteria for the allocation of funds need to be defined, which is currently not the case, so that the regions can have visibility and act accordingly in their learning orientations. In the course of the discussion, we would also like to address issues that have not been discussed in committee, such as the removal of the age criterion in calculating the remuneration of apprentices or the age limit for access to apprenticeships. We welcome the extension of learning to twenty-nine years. In this sense, older apprentices should not be penalized by pay based on their age and which would favour the younger ones. On vocational training, again, the proposed legislative developments aim to free up the supply of training and make it an effective right for all. A central provision is to provide the assets with a hand in the mobilisation of their personal training accounts and to make the open capacity for training more readable by an account in euro. The MODEM and related group would like this independence, which is currently being promoted, to be encouraged by a tax incentive for assets investing in their training. The success of the CPF will also depend on everyone being informed of their rights and becoming truly involved in their training course, particularly job seekers. We also hope that the collective agreements which will govern the dialogue on professional development will be rich and equitable, to the benefit of the increase in the skills of companies and individuals, in particular through the provisions which will promote the logics of co-construction. In the same spirit, and in order to respond as effectively as possible to the objective of making access to training the main lever of professional development, we will propose to strengthen the place of collective agreements in the definition of the provisions relating to measures to accompany professional development and to change the scope of the sanctions to encourage companies to give priority to promoting access to training. However, this flexibility should not be at the expense of employees, and we believe that there is a need for limits on the scope for derogation. France Competencies will be a public institution with clear missions, and whose governance aims to strengthen at the service of efficiency. We support this objective, but we are particularly concerned about the desire to exclude elected officials from this governance. The vocational training of employees of integration through economic activity is also a subject that deserves to be found in this bill. Our group therefore proposes to encourage periods of training within the courses, which is in line with the objectives of the reform. Finally, as regards the two training routes we are looking at today, apprenticeship and vocational training, we can only welcome the simplification of the collection. We welcome the fact that an amendment by the rapporteur, adopted in committee, has made it possible to resolve poorly anticipated effects in the first drafting of the impact of the planned contributions on certain categories of previously exempt employers, even though special situations, such as those of the artisans of the BTP, deserve our attention. With regard to Title II of this bill, the MODEM Group supports the universalist vision of the text, which aims to provide coverage to a greater number of people and to promote better professional mobility. This perspective is in line with the announcements made by the President of the Republic during his campaign as well as the work undertaken last summer. In this case, it is a matter of bringing the social dimension to this aspect of reform. Our group is therefore satisfied with the extension of the right to unemployment insurance to resigning employees and self-employed persons. For the former, it is indeed a question of guaranteeing their eligibility for this replacement income on concrete criteria for considering the construction of a real professional project. For the latter, it seems logical to guarantee them a "safety net" given the changes and risks they may face. Moreover, the reform of the method of financing unemployment insurance provided for in the text seems to us to be a positive step forward. The use of a tax resource, the CSG, will help to boost unemployment insurance policy as needed. This tax-based contribution therefore provides an increased role for the State in the governance of unemployment insurance. As such, its role will be important in the preparation of a scoping document on the financial trajectory of unemployment insurance agreements. Nevertheless, organisations representing employers and employees should be guaranteed the right to meet. Our group will propose a provision to this effect. The modulation of employers' contributions according to the termination rate in companies, commonly referred to as the bonus-malus, is also an important step forward, which should help to combat the proliferation of precarious hirings through short contracts. This is a good signal to employers to focus on sustainable work. However, our group would like to draw the Government's attention to the special situation of intermediate associations, whose effectiveness in terms of integration depends in part on the possibility of using CDS of use. We would like the Government to examine the implications of these new provisions in order to adapt them if they were to jeopardize the sustainability of these integration associations through economic activity. Let us also welcome the Government's willingness to transfer to Pôle emploi the sanctioning power previously granted to the prefects. The Court of Auditors has recommended this development on several occasions. With regard to the review of sanctions and the monitoring of job-seekers, the Government's suggestions were in the right direction. In fact, the penalties currently provided for are not balanced and really need to be updated so that the penalties are proportionate to the failure of job seekers. MODEM will remain vigilant in the balance of the sanctions scale that will soon be set up by decree in the Council of State. Finally, the end of the automaticity of the development of the reasonable supply of employment is a real step forward. The current mechanical legislative criteria do not allow individual situations to be taken into account. However, who is best able to understand the needs, ambitions and constraints of the job seeker, if not his adviser refer with whom he exchanges? Overall, Title II responds to the developments expected by our fellow citizens for unemployment insurance. However, it will be necessary to remain vigilant and skilful in the implementation of these provisions, which will require a great deal of adaptability on the part of the actors concerned. I will return only briefly to Title III and the progress it proposes in the areas of equality between men and women, disability or gender-based harassment and violence, as presented by the rapporteur. However, our group would like to stress the legislative provisions which will enable the conditions of real equality to be included in the text, which cannot be conditioned on means. We would also like all measures to prevent gender-based violence or discrimination to be extended to moral harassment, as it is true that the boundaries between moral harassment and gender-based harassment are sometimes indistinct, and that moral harassment is for those who suffer it every moment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, our MODEM and related group is convinced that this bill will be a major step forward in the areas of access to training and occupational mobility. Everyone on our benches will have at heart the success of this project. Let us hope that the amendments tabled can be discussed calmly and that they can be adopted in large numbers if they resolve difficulties or shortcomings, or if they contribute to bringing together all the actors involved in the reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u28	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is always useful, when discussing a bill to reform vocational training, to first make the observation of what already exists. It is drawn up by the social partners in the preamble to the agreement which precedes the draft law, and three sources of difficulty are very quickly identified: the school delays from the first level of education, the poor conditions of guidance, the large number of young people who leave the school system each year without training. You will not find this harsh statement, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the national interprofessional agreement of 22 February 2018, but in the preamble to the agreement of 9 July 1970. However, there is still some surprising news. Of course, the context has changed, many actions have been undertaken in the school field to better guide and train. Many have also been undertaken, agreements after agreements, laws after laws, to structure continuing vocational training, to give it a reality, through training tools that can be mobilised by employees, and to adapt it to changes in the company and the world of work. Undeniably, the current situation is not that of 1970. However, the nature of the difficulties remains the same: the quality of the initial training, the relevance of the guidance, the adequacy of the training to the needs of the firm and the professional development of the person. These are concerns which always motivate reflection on continuing vocational training. The basic law of 6 July 1971 laid down the basis for the organisation of continuing vocational training in order to establish an effective right to training for employees. It was followed by many others who, in 2004, in 2009, in 2014, transformed the vocational training landscape, each time following a national interprofessional agreement negotiated by the social partners. The creation of an individual right to training, followed by the organisation of the portability of this right, the operational preparation for employment, the public service of guidance, the security of career paths, the creation of the personal training account and the professional development counselling, are successive advances which demonstrate the need to open up continuing vocational training to jobseekers and not only to employees, the mobility which now characterizes any career route, leading to the determination of rights more attached to the person of the employee, rather than to the employment he exercises, to reduce inequalities in access to training and to facilitate the use of training for those most in need. And yet, over the years, there has been a feeling of an opaque, unreadable vocational training system, as confusing for the employee as it is for the employer, whether it is the proposed training offer or the funding channels of the training system itself. In the end, it is the doubt that prevails as to the effectiveness of a system of vocational training that generates nearly 32 billion expenditure, all actors – public and private – combined. Undoubtedly, comprehensive reform is needed and the previous laws have tried more or less to do so, but they have not succeeded. Today, Minister, you are about to add your name to the long list of all your predecessors who have tried to reform our system of vocational, initial and continuing training. Many of us, including outside the majority, want this reform to achieve its goal of making vocational training in France more fluid, readable, affordable and efficient. Our businesses, our country and our citizens, above all, need it. Most of us share a double observation. On the one hand, while the period of lifetime employment in the same enterprise has long passed, the transitions to work are still periods that have been hit and poorly secured, and our system is struggling to develop effective tools that facilitate the transition from one job to another, the rise to qualification or the conversion to unemployment. On the other hand, society must adapt to the technological changes and changes in the work of the digital and digital revolution. Jean Tirole, our Nobel Prize laureate in economics, again recently stressed the strategic importance of vocational training in this perspective. In the face of these findings, your reform makes a number of choices that go in the right direction, I admit. The strengthening of vocational counselling is thus a major element of everyone's access to training. It sheds light on the choices to be made to enable everyone to be truly involved in their professional career. It was also essential to give more emphasis to the professional branches in the definition of training standards and in the development of training paths. The branches are indeed among those involved in continuing vocational training which, by their very nature, are best aware of employers' expectations and the needs of enterprises. They are able to ensure the conditions for a better match between the needs of enterprises and the demand for jobs, thanks to the supply of training. The conditions for more effective certification of training bodies are also an indispensable element of a reform aimed at facilitating access to lifelong learning for all. In addition to mobilising its rights to training, ensuring that it has access to a quality training organisation or training that will have a real impact on the continuation of the career path is a driving force behind the use of training by both the employee and the jobseeker. The monetization of the personal training account leaves us more dubious, following hearings that we were able to conduct prior to parliamentary work on the bill. It is likely to provide a greater readability of the actual rights available to an employee for training. However, we are wondering about the conditions for the changeover of the unit of measure of the CPF from time to time to the euro. Such conversion shall not result in the loss of the rights acquired by the assets holding a CPF. We therefore expect the Government to provide sufficient guarantees on this point that assets that have acquired training rights will not be adversely affected by the reform. In spite of provisions which constitute advances in the organisation and financing of vocational training and apprenticeship, your reform is stumbling down on a point which we believe is essential: the place of the territories. The bill relegates territories, and particularly regions, to a secondary role. However, it is logical that local and regional authorities exercising competence in the field of economic development should also be involved in the choice of vocational training and apprenticeship guidance in their territory. In reality, all local actors in employment should be involved in order to better accompany the return to employment or the development of employment. As proof, I want to take this example from my constituency – I beg your pardon. Not later than last week, nineteen young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, unemployed, signed a pre-employment contract, prior to a CDI, in Nordtole, a company specializing in fine sheet metalwork, after having received a four-month welder's training in metalwork and cauldronry. With this diploma, they will work for a large digital company, a leader in hosting, based in Roubaix. All actors in the training and access to employment chain are mobilised: local elected representatives for the link with the company, the region for training, the employment centre and the local mission for the detection of profiles and the house of employment for the coordination of the stakeholders. However, the examination of the bill gives the impression that vocational training, compensation through unemployment insurance and the support of the jobseeker are compartmentalized areas which fall under the responsibility of operators of different levels, whereas the aim is to ensure a continuum. This continuity, again, is closer to the territories that must be experienced. The entry of a job seeker in training, as part of a new occupational project, is not outside the realities of an employment pool, which is itself located in a region with its own economic characteristics. This is also why, in recognition of our willingness to recognize the contribution of territorial expertise to vocational training and learning, we deplore the orientation of your text, which removes learning from the competence of the regions. Indeed, by entrusting to the professional branches alone the competence to create the CFAs, the reform deprives itself of the overall and prospective vision of the regions on the economic fabric, in the light of the choices made in the framework of the regional economic development schemes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u30	Very true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u31	By removing the regional administrative authorization to open up and develop the CFAs, your reform risks promoting a territorial divide in access to learning between urban and rural areas. According to a study by Régions de France, more than 700 CFAs are threatened.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u33	That is why we will propose that you retain the region's competence in terms of learning, which is perfectly consistent with its skills in vocational training for jobseekers and economic development. We will also propose that you go to the end of the process, asking ourselves about the link between, on the one hand, the territories, the regions and, more broadly, the local and regional authorities and, on the other, the employment centre. I will not encroach on the words of my colleagues, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and Paul Christophe, who will deliver in a few moments our group's reflections on the reform of unemployment insurance and the provisions on employment. However, it must be noted that accompaniment to employment and the use of training periods are closely intertwined approaches which, again, cannot ignore the reality of the territories. This is the primary meaning of decentralisation, which plunges part of its foundations into the principle of subsidiarity: entrusting the responsibility for public action at the local level which is closest to those which it concerns. In this spirit, in order to better articulate the priorities set in the field of job-seekers' placement and the orientations of vocational training, we will propose that regions and territories be given a more decisive place in the governance of the Employment Centre. Furthermore, if the bill attempts to better share jurisdiction between the state and the regions for better guidance from the college, we do not clearly distinguish between the sufficient means that will enable the regions to achieve this goal. That is why we expect our discussions to clarify the question of the means necessary for the regions to respond to their missions in terms of orientation and information on trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u34	If it's blurred, it's because there's a wolf.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u35	Among the questions that we also want to see removed is that of the transition period between the existing system and the mechanism proposed by the bill – I raised the subject in my explanation of vote. This is a widely shared concern, both by representatives of employers' representative organisations and by those of trade union organisations. The challenge is indeed important: to ensure that there is no break in access to training with the conventions currently in force with the regions, for example in the setting up of the personal account for vocational transition training or in the implementation of the apprenticeship reform. We are also particularly surprised at the lack of provisions that facilitate access to continuing training and learning in a cross-border context. The development of frontier work is, in the territories concerned, an element of the fight against unemployment which must be encouraged. Access to employment across the border is part of the career path of many of our fellow citizens. It must be facilitated through professionalising training provided by the branches, in a cross-border context, and without encountering obstacles to administrative or regulatory barriers. A cross-border offer of apprenticeship and continuing training is therefore necessary to facilitate the geographical mobility of our citizens. I note, moreover, that the current Franco-German parliamentary working group has specifically mentioned vocational training as one of the subjects which can be the subject of further cross-border cooperation between France and Germany. This also applies to other countries bordering us, like Belgium and, more particularly, the Flemish region as regards the Hauts de France. In this debate, we will also ensure that vocational training takes more account of the needs of emerging sectors. By definition, in the case of new occupations, the training needs in these fields are important in order to qualify the employees whom these enterprises are seeking in order to develop in their markets. However, these new courses, because they are recent, do not have the means to finance the necessary training. Thus, the objective of equalisation and mutualisation which you are endeavouring to develop, with good reason, towards companies with less than fifty employees, must also be able to apply to emerging sectors. This is one of the conditions for adapting our economy to the ever-faster technological developments we are experiencing, and a decisive factor in our competitiveness. Finally, the allocation to Urssaf of responsibility for the collection of funding for vocational training and the allocation of funding by France Competencies should not make us neglect the need to sanctify the appropriations for vocational training. Experience shows us that, often, some of the funds allocated to it, for example in the framework of the Joint Fund for the Safeguarding of Professional Routes, can then be reallocated to other destinations. Companies contribute to lifelong learning: they make a real investment in human resources through training. The mobilisation of the sums collected for this purpose must have as a corollary the guarantee that they are used exclusively for this purpose. This is undoubtedly a factor in the return of confidence in our vocational training system. On the other hand, on behalf of the IDU Group, I would like to conclude by saying the word trust. Is your reform commensurate with the need for confidence in our vocational training system among companies, employees and jobseekers? An employer is looking for a trained person, an employee is looking to evolve into a position and a job seeker is looking to value the experience gained in his previous position or to reconvert. Can they, in order to achieve their objective, rely with confidence on the various devices offered by our lifelong learning system? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LR group]] From our point of view, the responses, while representing a genuine commitment to reform on the part of the Government, are still incomplete at this stage. In the course of the discussions, we shall endeavour to make, with our proposals and clarifications, a useful contribution to the organisation of a lasting system of continuing vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u36	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u37	Madam Minister, when you announced a few weeks ago, both a Copernician revolution in apprenticeship, a big bang in vocational training and the advent of universal unemployment insurance, many of us had hoped. We had hoped, because we are convinced of the need to invest in skills, promote learning and better manage professional transitions. But we must now see that, from words to deeds, the gap is immense and that your reform is disappointing. This is the first reform of vocational training since 1971 which does not reach a consensus. Perhaps this is the result of a method of government which, for the time being, has essentially consisted of misleading social democracy and the regions. But your reform is not only disappointing, it is also worrying. She is concerned because she is entirely guided by a liberal and Anglo-Saxon view of the labour market, which the title of your text reveals: "freedom to choose her professional future". Is that to say, Madam Minister, that those who would remain unemployed after your reform would also have freely chosen it? To have the freedom to choose one's professional future, one must have the effective capacity. It is the very purpose of public policies in favour of vocational training and apprenticeship to facilitate and organise the accompaniment to the training of those who need it most, persons with little or no qualifications, school or vocational failures and with little spontaneous appetite for training. You cannot base your reform on the so-called rationality of actors, entrepreneurs and employees, and on the so-called efficiency of the markets to which you deliver training and learning. You can't just claim to be the bet of trust and abandon the most fragile of our fellow citizens to the care of a mobile app. Nor can you base your reform on magical thinking: training does not create employment, the least qualified do not form spontaneously, companies do not always invest themselves in training and markets do not pay for good feelings. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Your project does not free individuals: it frees markets. The comments that we will make throughout this debate will have no other purpose than to try to convince you that you are wrong. I would like to give you a few elements of analysis here. With regard to apprenticeship, the Government has repeatedly denounced the current organization of apprenticeships and the stagnation in the number of apprentices. If we share, Madam Minister, your desire to develop the way of learning, we cannot follow you in the direction of opening up to competition in the learning market. Apprenticeship is, we agree, characterised by an overly complex system of funding, but this subsidized scheme that you sometimes denounce with contempt has a specific meaning: apprenticeship is part of initial training as well as school training. It is a non-economic service of general interest...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u39	... which cannot be subject to market logics or small calculations of profitability. But your reform transforms learning into a competitive market of a new kind, distorted in advance, with prices regulated at national level according to a method that is unknown, unless it will not be based on the actual costs borne by the CFAs. The abolition of regulation by the training card and the liberalisation of the opening up of the CFAs pave the way for unfair and deadly competition. Contract financing will weaken rural CFAs, small-scale CFAs in small employment areas, and level IV and V CFAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u40	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u41	On the other hand, the boon effect for the private CFAs of the superior will be considerable. In New Aquitaine, 95 of 116 CFAs were threatened, 448 out of 1798. Nor can we acquiesce in the senseless bet you make by entrusting to the professional branches the responsibility for learning. Rather than entrusting the regulation of the system to the branches, most of which have no legal or material consistency, it would have been more relevant to rely on the regions, ensuring, where appropriate, that they effectively mobilise the resources allocated to them by the State to develop learning. Your learning reform, Minister, is a dangerous bet for both learning and young people. We take date, but we also fear that your choices will destabilize the system and that you will face great disillusionments. As far as vocational training is concerned, I must also tell you that we do not understand and worry about it. You have made the decision to monetize and disintermediate the CPF, making training a consumer good like another and leading to a significant reduction in people's rights. In practice, this may only benefit managers, who are already the ones who benefit most from the training. Let's be precise. With an announced conversion rate of 14 euros per hour, while the average cost of training is today 37,80 euros, an employee will benefit tomorrow from 13 hours of annual training compared to 24 hours at present. It is a serious setback that will penalise first those whose training requires heavy technical platforms, but also, more broadly, all employees. For example, a skills assessment, which is now funded in one year at a rate of 24 hours, can only be financed tomorrow in three or four years at a rate of between 1500 and 2000 euros. Even the increased amounts for those who do not have a level V diploma are down on current entitlements. Today, the strengthened CPF corresponds to 2.6 times the general scheme; Tomorrow, it will be only 1.6 times the general scheme. The rights are therefore reduced, Madam Minister, and the Government's message is clear: the freedom to choose one's professional future is also the freedom to finance one's training. The CPF holder is now the first of the financiers to abound his account in case of remaining dependent. Real rights, do you proclaim? Of course, as long as we can afford them! This monetization not only results in a reduction in actual rights: it also marks the entry of vocational training into the category of consumer goods, without any guarantee of quality worthy of this name. In short, it's the promise of a beautiful gabegie of public funds! What about the incomprehensible abolition of individual training leave – CIF –, this magnificent tool for managing occupational transitions for 90,000 employees per year, to which you prefer the transitional CPF, for which the level of remuneration during training is not even guaranteed by law? The new scheme is less well funded: while EUR 800 million was allocated to the ICF, only EUR 400 million – twice as much – will be allocated to the transition CPF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u42	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u43	Nor do we understand the meaning of the privatization of the professional development council, the CEP. Accompaniment, which should have been at the heart of your reform, is being undermined: the CEP, conceived as an offer of services placed at the heart of the public service missions of the five main operators in charge of the asset council, is now privatized, open to the market without ethical framework, without guarantee preventing conflicts of interest, in particular with the offer of training. Worse: Instead of strengthening the support of job seekers, the bill strengthens the controls of the unemployed, maintaining the suspicion about the most precarious, instead of investing in quality support to help them regain rights. And what about the elimination, announced by the press, of 4000 jobs in Pôle Emploi? We also do not understand the silence of your text on social dialogue in the company with regard to training. The skills development plan should be the key to preparing for the future and managing technological transitions, based on the forward-looking management of employment and skills – GPEC – and individual assessments. This is not the case since, on the proposals of the national interprofessional agreement, you have preferred the isolation of the employee, only to manage his capital of skills and the individualization of his rights. In these circumstances, it is feared that some companies will seek skills in the market rather than train their employees in-house. What about the political regulation envisaged by your project with France Skills? It is in line with your conception of the exercise of power: governance is not simplified but captured by the state, recentralised – a first since 1982 –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u45	... as part of an exercise without power sharing defying intermediate bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u46	It's full centralization!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u47	Finally, with regard to unemployment insurance, the reform does not go hand in hand or, to use the polite formula of eminent economists who are said to be close to the President of the Republic, "is not up to the original ambitions". It is at least a euphemism, because there is no question of occupational social security or universal unemployment insurance. According to a recent UNEDIC note, between 9,000 and 17,000 resignations will be affected by the reform once every five years, while there are one million resignations per year and 30,000 independents out of the 1.8 million employers affiliated with unemployment insurance. It's not much – you can proclaim the opposite, but the truth is there – it's even derisory. More fundamentally, there is no point in questioning the merits of resignation as a way of managing professional transitions. In our view, it would have been more appropriate to strengthen the ICF, but you have removed it. And the skills investment plan – PIC –, will you tell me? It represents EUR 15 billion invested in five years. That is a lot, but it is no more than in recent years that this is done at the expense of employees and that there are no additional budgetary appropriations. Similarly, it must be noted that your commitment to train one million jobseekers in five years is less ambitious than the "500,000 training" plan for 2016 and 2017. This is therefore a decline, all the more regrettable because our German and Danish neighbours make up 20% and 30% of their jobseekers respectively when we form only 10%. Madam Minister, as you introduce your bill to us again with the confidence bet, it is clear that, beyond statements of intent, you have already lowered your guard on the fight against unemployment. While the rate of job creation remains very high, unemployment stagnates, job-seekers' induction into training is falling freely and skills-based employment contracts are not taking off, so that the first affected by the crisis will be the last to benefit from the recovery. Minister, your bill is not a technical text, it is a highly political text. We are convinced of the need to increase the general level of skills of the population – at least as much as you, if not more because we defend the further democratisation of higher education, of which Parcoursup is the antithesis – but we are not convinced by the individualization of rights, which leaves the weakest on the side. We believe in the virtues of learning alongside the professional path, but we do not believe in promoting market learning and opening up to competition. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] During these debates, minister, we will constantly alert you and demonstrate to you, without animosity but with conviction, that you are making mistakes. We will table amendments, with the hope of being heard at times. We will see what we have in the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u48	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the last week of the first year of this Parliament. What can we draw from these first 12 months? The list is long: weakening of labour law; decrease and planned termination of assisted contracts; decrease in the number of jobs in the Employment Centre; monitoring, coping and sanctioning of workers who are not employed; attacks on civil servants and questioning the public service; decrease in resources in our hospitals and EHPADs; decrease in community endowments; reduction of personalized housing subsidies – APL – and removal of home ownership; 90% reduction in the quota of housing suitable for persons with disabilities; selection at the entrance to the university with Parcoursup – the youth is on the tile – ;...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u50	We are discussing vocational training!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u51	...obligation to have his child given eleven vaccines under the penalty of not being able to attend school from the age of three; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u52	That's a good one! What does this have to do with our text?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u53	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] ... lack of a ban on the use of glyphosate in our territory; increase of the CSG for pensioners; dismantling of the law on urban solidarity and renewal – the SRU law – with the authorisation to no longer comply with the quota for the construction of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u54	This is ridiculous! And the rain that falls today, you're going to talk about it, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u55	The consequences of these measures: rising unemployment and ill-being, and the cost of life. And I don't forget the removal of the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u56	All this has little to do with vocational training!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u57	To this sad list, we must add the increasingly insistent announcement of a challenge to social benefits. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Macron's policy is similar to that of a "social killer" – all I do is carry the voice and express the public's feelings. Our fundamental rights, the pillars of our society that have already been undermined in recent years, are in the process of collapsing at a speed rarely observed in France. Here, in the hexagon, and there, in the overseas, the people hardly cash this policy of mass social killing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u58	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u59	We are starting this week to review the bill you have called "for the freedom to choose your professional future",...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u60	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After two minutes, you can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u61	...which merely supports this logic of social regression. What freedom are you talking about? In this bill, we can detach at least three major parts. First, learning. The La République en marche group wants us to believe that learning would be the only key to access to employment among young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u62	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u63	Your goal is therefore to increase the number of apprentices in France and to bring down security that so far protects our young people, supposedly to facilitate their hiring. In addition, you have decided to begin the regionalisation of learning. Within the group La France insoumée, we think the opposite: the training of our young people must be subject to state control, because they are the future of our nation, it is the responsibility of the State to plan the future needs and activities of our country, and our young people must not be placed under house arrest in a region. I say this with determination: an apprentice is not an employee like another. He's a young man in training. He must not be forced to work under the same working conditions as an employee; he must be more protected, both because of his age and because of the obligation to train in addition to his work. Secondly, you have decided to address the issue of vocational training. In your vision, vocational training is used to enable workers to adapt to the economy and the labour market. You are making a mistake: the economy must adapt to the needs of our country. Today, more than yesterday, it is an imperative. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Climate change is accelerating, under pressure from a deregulated and autonomous economy of sovereign decisions of countries. We believe that France has a great responsibility: to take the outpost of the struggle for the preservation of human life in harmony with nature. Vocational training has its full place in this great mission, because it is our entire organization of work that we will have to rethink in order to adapt our production system to the ecological imperative. This will require that all workers change their ways of doing things. This process will therefore have to go through vocational training. In addition, we object to your utilitarian vision. In addition to helping the great ecological transition that humanity needs, vocational training allows workers to change their lives, or even improve their lives in their working collectives, through training in business citizenship or professional equality. I come to my third part: unemployment insurance. Here we find your terrible obsession with debt – still the debt and still the debt – that must be reduced everywhere, especially by reducing spending. It's a mistake. You want – again! – financing unemployment insurance through the generalised social contribution – CSG. As for us, we propose another solution: contributions. By way of contribution, unemployment insurance will retain its financing and autonomy. Compensation would thus remain a right and would not be a mere charity subject to small-scale considerations. In terms of governance, you want a stateization. We propose, for our part, joint governance between contributors and users, so that this governance remains democratised. But that is not the worst – if I dare to say: here comes the appearance of the oblivion of the campaign promises of candidate Macron, who became president-roy. Indeed, its main social measure was to provide unemployment insurance for resignations and self-employed persons. Now, with this text, you have revealed yourself: you impose so many conditions on this compensation that it will benefit only a few tens of thousands of people. Farewell the great social measure, hello the renunciation and deceit! [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] And as if that wasn't enough, you propose to further increase the control of the jobless by forcing them to fill in a monthly logbook to prove that they are looking for a job. Perhaps you expect to read vacation stories in the Bahamas, since one of your deputies On the move, it was indecency to imagine that some unemployed people would use their compensation to go on vacation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u64	He was a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u65	It's the height of ridicule! Yesterday's vacation in the Bahamas, today's logbook: and what tomorrow? The electronic bracelet? That's enough! Please, a little humanity in this country! People who are unemployed suffer. They are excluded from society in two ways: by lack of work and by their daily economic difficulties. And to social exclusion, you want to add even more stigma! France insoumise will oppose it with a great deal of firmness. I stop there, because time is forced. I could have referred to your position on seconded work, which you want to simplify and liberalise while only tightening the sanctions against fraudsters very little, whereas it should simply be banned, except for the skills not available in the country. I could also have addressed the situation of disabled workers, since you do not want to increase the hiring obligations of large companies. I could also have commented on your proposals on sexism and professional equality: in this area, your only answer is to make mandatory the numerical indicators of inequality and the posting of articles of the Penal Code relating to sexism and harassment. Your promise to introduce sexism in the company has been diluted. We will therefore propose amendments in this regard. I could also, to conclude, have talked about your measures to promote slippers, which is relevant right now when looking at the Elysée side – right, ma'am? Count on us to defend many of the proposed amendments that will allow us to come back more precisely on these subjects and to defend a responsible vision that is in the public interest. It is not a few overseas measures that will be sufficient to mask the magnitude of the situation, even if I am a taker. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I'm still fighting for equality. So I will be very vigilant about your ads and their application.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u67	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u68	[[Approvals on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Madam Chair, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, did we believe in this announcement, this promise, this prophecy? After having devastated the labour code and weakened the employees to free up capital, you were going, you said, to protect them with this law on vocational training. After the rain, the good weather. After the storm, calm down. After effort, comfort. Freeing, protecting, that was your motto – but forgive me for telling you that you don't have Walt Disney's talent for fairy tales.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u70	This law is melted in the same mould as the previous one, modelled on the same matrix, resulting from the same scenario. We don't change the freedom of the fox into the law of the hens more than the gold lead. You have not found, Madam Minister, the philosopheral stone. We will not find here any real new right, in any case nothing equal to the law that disappears, and it must be made clear immediately, since we have been told that it is a matter of combating mass unemployment, that vocational training alone cannot be enough, otherwise it would mean that its victims would be responsible. This is the Government once again engaged in a "scratch table" operation that lacks both humility and ambition. Vocational training, however, deserves great ambition. Indeed, we are in a changing world – a constant evolution of technologies and techniques, modes of production and work itself. And it is indeed the work that we are talking about, this act of production, creation, participation – the work, which does not consist of obeying, of accomplishing a task, but that mobilizes the human being and his capacities to produce a good or a service useful to society. What is at stake is to place every worker, every worker, in the best conditions so that this act can take part in its development. So we are talking about emancipation, whereas today work is far too much under the domination of the restrained injunctions of capital, shareholders, big owners. So, what do we need? We need free and responsible workers, not mere performers. We need, first of all, an educational ambition in the open for the young people of our country, including those who today cannot find their place in the school as it is. We need accompaniment so that everyone can really choose their way, at the right time, based on their desires as well as their abilities. We need security and rights in order not to be governed by immediate contingencies, fear of the future or by the elements of an economy plagued by the crises of senseless financialization. We need continuing vocational training that allows every worker to continue to move forward in his or her occupation without having to jeopardize his or her existence by leaving his or her job, to gain in qualification and recognition, to follow, and even anticipate, developments at work, and also to change paths by using his or her knowledge in other forms and in other ways. In short, because we are faced with immense challenges that call for a profound change in production patterns and the invention of other social relationships, because we have to face the ecological crisis as well as the anthropological crisis, there is a need for many forces, active intelligences, everywhere, at the heart of the places where the world is invented, manufactured and protected. It is therefore necessary to raise the level of knowledge and skills, and it is all the more important that, while jobs are being destroyed and others are being created, no one should be left on the edge of the road. Many jobs are being destroyed for bad reasons, such as labour cost theories and social dumping.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u71	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u72	Jobs are also sometimes destroyed because they no longer meet a need. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Everyone must have the right to lifelong learning, because yes, we must invest in people first, and no, work is not a cost. It is not enough to repeat the need to invest in human capital: this must be done. We must respect the trades, respect the work, respect the work. It is for this reason that a revolution should be initiated by opening up a new field of social security: job security or training, which would allow everyone, without loss of income, to move from employment to training and vice versa, without stopping on the unemployment box, by allowing them to overcome this inoperative labour market and to change social relations themselves, by attaching genuine collective rights to the person. So there was room for real ambition on the subject before us, and the existing one had, as a seed, positive things. However, these are not the ones you support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u73	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u74	How, then, can you define your project? Nothing about common sense: you build the liberal state, with public power as an accelerator of deregulation in all areas and of the commodification of everything that can be done. You believe in the market as the Grand Authorising Officer of the economic system and you believe that initial and vocational training has the role of matching supply and demand on the labour market. The consequence is an exacerbated individualization, which will fuel inequalities. The flaws are, however, known to a system that struggles to allow the least qualified to form, and your answer to this issue is not the right one. You reduce the share of social actors and local elected representatives in the management of the system. You marginalize the accompaniments to open a large supermarket of trainings, which will be available with a simple click on a mobile phone or a platform. You introduce a kind of training cheque, transforming an hourly endowment into a monetary endowment that, by the way, divides the entitlement by two. You encourage the individual to take charge of the training, on his or her own money and time. You are reducing the amount of wealth that can ultimately be devoted to it globally in our country. You leave aside the ambition of qualification for the skills nebula, taking the risk of favoring low cost training. In doing so, you weaken existing public tools. We see no real ambition for vocational training, but a short-term and utilitarian vision. The personnel and actors of the training world are concerned about these unprepared upheavals and their consequences, and you have sent them no sign. By the way, you are sacrificing our public information and guidance service, pushing for the suppression of the useful places of information and guidance centres – IOC – and cutting ONISEP from its roots. It's consistent with your logic. The learning is eaten with the same sauce: you present a project of deregulation and privatization, poorly copied on the German model, and detach it from the initial training. Here too, you are in an appropriater logic, which is even less justified in the case of learning. Rather than working on a protective status to guarantee the quality of apprenticeship training, you lower the safeguards with longer working hours and easier breaks, which already reach 28%. In the logic of the ordinances, you now lower the rights for the younger ones. In the same vein, deregulation is going to put in difficulty useful sectors and establishments – in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, 33 apprentice training centres – CFA – have already been counted as threatened. The reform of unemployment insurance is the result of the heavy decisions made during the Social Security Financing Bill, which endorsed the end of the funding of social protection through wage contributions, which you misrepresented as an increase in purchasing power. Here again, we find ourselves in the construction of the liberal state, since you take over a management that was assumed on a par, and the state can decide how much it allocates each year to unemployment insurance. The promise of universalisation of the right to unemployment insurance breaks on the reality of your decisions: 3% of resignations will benefit from your new scheme, and 1% of self-employed workers, some of whom are disguised employees. We warn you not to introduce what might be like a status as a sub-employee. In addition, 55% of job-seekers who do not receive compensation, including young people under the age of 25. Not content with this, you add your stone to the control devices of the unemployed, some of which limit to guilt, and even humiliation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u76	... while these have already been subjected to successive hardenings leading to radiation. You take the risk of altering the relationship between unemployed and unemployed women and employment officers, but in the end, your fight against fraud is quite selective, as large tax fraudsters know. However, you have accepted our amendment to consider the non-use of rights, which is a crucial issue – modest victory, but which we take note of. Fortunately, your project contains some provisions for professional equality, which would deserve real resources and not be enough to save this text – not to mention a cut in the status of the civil service guaranteeing the independence of the agents and which, if we have understood what has been said elsewhere, calls for others. [[Smile]] Minister, this bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future has a title that might seem tempting – we could discuss it – but you didn't put the right fish in the bouillabaisse and, you know, it's unforgivable! Finally, I want to say a word about the method. After sung in all tonalities the benefits of trust in social dialogue, you committed serious breaches of this principle in the preparation of this text. If employers' organisations seem not to hold you offended, employees' union organisations show their discontent. This is no wonder, this habit you have taken is a marker of your policy. You have taken liberties with negotiated agreements; It could have been in the right direction, but it's not. You have also submitted a well-marked road map to them, closing their discussions in a limited framework, and it turns out that some provisions are still written in grey pencil in the text. This gives a feeling of improvisation that is absolutely not reassuring. The Government once again declared the text urgent; It is now systematic and it is a way of circumventing the ordinary rules that guarantee the quality of legislative work, the time for debate in Parliament and in society, and the rights of Parliament. It is well known that you are preparing reforms aimed at further aggravating the imbalance of powers, but this practice is not acceptable. This is coupled with the use of scheduled legislative time, which was shown to be inconclusive during the review of the ELAN law last week and the week before. What did you need this haste and contraction? What tangible elements could justify this? None, except the fidelity to this method that you have been implementing for a year: hit fast, hit hard and enjoy the sideration. Our country has neither deserved nor asked for this. [[Smile]] There was much talk of the Copernican revolution during the debates: the Copernican revolution placed the sun at the centre, you put Jupiter there! You put more precisely the law of the market in it, and that can't go wrong. Minister Marcel Rigout, Minister of Vocational Training, whose transition to responsibilities was marked by the creation of local missions, because he was concerned about young people in trouble of the future and refused to oppose inclusion and qualification, wrote that "the aspiration to vocational training is much more than a utilitarian approach linked exclusively to employment, it basically reflects the great human need of culture". It promoted "a broad and humanistic conception of training, which can be called lifelong education", allowing everyone to "participate in the collective control of activities, beginning to dominate the conditions of their own life, of their personal development". For it is not written that at the age of twenty, we have finished our race: we owe each and every one the right to move forward throughout his or her life and to mobilize ever better knowledge and experience. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] We will therefore make proposals in the debate so that the project that will emerge from it for vocational training, for apprenticeship, for unemployment insurance carries true ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u77	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u78	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, after this rain of criticism, which shows a certain conservatism on the left and on the right, I would like to tell you, on behalf of the LaREM Group, that if there is a law which wants to mark the emancipatory ambition and which our majority wants to speak for, it is this one, Madam Minister! I would like to commend your determination and your audacity; It's not necessarily very common, even in our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u79	Names!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u80	But we need to explain this law so that our fellow citizens understand the meaning of it, and so seize it for themselves. Before saying how – we will discuss it all week – it is probably important to say why. Why a law that creates new rights, to which you will oppose, to the left as well as to the right? I am thinking of the assets, the self-employed and the resignations: we are faced with the need to accompany new forms of work. Labour law must respond to these changes, which are also societal, and respond to the aspirations of the assets, often in search of autonomy. Why a law that wants to combat job insecurity, especially by penalising short contracts? Because they have exploded in recent years: 80% of the recruitments today are in CSDs of a month or less. We cannot defend the emancipation of individuals if we do not allow them to project themselves in the future. Finally, why a law that changes our social protection by making it more universal and not dependent only on paid status? Because we want employees to gain purchasing power by removing wage contributions. But we also want solidarity to intervene in the protection of assets. That is why the CSG is involved in the financing of unemployment insurance, which we are assuming.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u82	It's a very good choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This legislation, Minister, is a real reform, directly linked to the needs of society that we want more emancipatory, fairer and more hopeful in the future. Our group will support her with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u84	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u85	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are dealing with is, by its title, particularly ambitious. "For the freedom to choose one's professional future": we can only share your will, Madam Minister, because, to take up this beautiful expression of Blaise Pascal, "the most important thing in all life is the choice of the profession". But you still have to have a choice! There are too many inequalities, too many unemployment, too many people far from business or the public service, too many young people who are gallant. It is necessary to be able to improve both support and training and career paths throughout life. First of all, I would like to focus on learning reform. To have spoken on several occasions in this forum on this important subject for the future of young people, which requires the acquisition of the skills necessary to practise a profession and to acquire the passion for the work done well, I would like to pay tribute to all companies, all the trainers who transmit their know-how and their skills. We are all in favour of a reform of apprenticeship, but it still needs to be effective, when 2 million French people, aged between 15 and 25 years, are not currently in training or in employment! With your bill, we move from an administrative logic, where CFAs are largely financed from the regions, to a so-called "market" logic, where funding is made on the number of contracts signed, with a cost set at the national level. To entrust learning to the professional branches raises questions as they are in the process of reorganisation: less than ten are now ready to fulfil these new tasks. The regions are relegated to the background and regain competence for regulation and spatial planning. But, in my view, there should be real co-piloting between regions and branches. We need a real regional strategy, with a regional pattern of alternance training, objective agreements, a real management dialogue! The transfer of learning to the branches can lead to underfunding of training in the least organized branches. The reform will also lead to exposure to cyclical factors: for example, between 2008 and 2015, the number of apprentices in the BTP fell by 31% as a result of the economic crisis. Will there be protection solutions against this? I also hope that the consular chambers will be strengthened in their learning support missions, as they are closer to those who support businesses. There are some advances in your text, Madam Minister, such as the creation of the third class of so-called "pre-trades", the extension of the age limit to twenty-nine years, the relaxation of the regulations for minors, the relaxation of the conditions of break-up and the certification imposed on all institutions that provide apprenticeship training. But be careful that the trainings put in place are not threatened because of the method of calculating the cost of the contract, because each training is different, each place has its own history and educational organisation adapted to the heterogeneity of the public and the territories. 700 CFA would be threatened, Madam Minister, according to the Regions of France! I want to stress the orientation: we do not talk about it enough or, at least, it is not effective enough in France. There is a need for a re-evaluation of the professions, so that all actors in guidance can join together. The region is seeing its missions expanded here. Regionalize orientation, why not? However, the fragmentation of the various actors in the orientation is not settled: 8000 structures intervene in the field of orientation, of which 524 IOC in the territories, 446 local missions, which do moreover, I stress before you, admirable work, but still "youth information offices", "information points" in the communes – in short, there is need to put a little order in all this. With regard to the personal training account, it is supposed to become a tool for direct and universal access to simplified training directories divided into skill blocks. You talk about total freedom for employees – yes, but with a usage that can be far from the company's priorities! You set up a monetized account, with visibility in euros – yes, but with rights with variable geometry depending on the costs of training! And as for management paritarianism, it is the end, and not just an evolution, because with the creation of France skills, it is the assumed stateization of vocational training! Agency of alternation, financer of the whole system, controller, certificater: she will have all the powers. The third part of this text, unemployment insurance, is extended to new audiences, resignations and self-employed at the end of their employment. All this will have a cost: 500 million euros, it must be said. Funding and governance will lead to a mixed system of both contributory and assurance and, moreover, national solidarity. This will reduce the negotiations of the unemployment insurance agreement to a masquerade and management paritarianism will belong to the past. More than ever, there is the question of what one wants to do with unemployment insurance: to ensure a risk by a very protective replacement income or to make it a solidarity tool that serves lump sum income articulated with social minima? I will conclude with the concern expressed in favour of persons with disabilities, far removed from employment, with an organisation and funds that are not working or poorly: the Association for the Management of the Fund for the Vocational Integration of the Disabled, the AGEFIPH, the Fund for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities in the Public Service, the FIPHFP, whose record is not satisfactory, and the obligations of enterprises which are not met because the procedures are complex and the motivation is particularly insufficient. We must, ladies and gentlemen, have an inclusive society so that everyone, beyond differences, can find their place and benefit from the great principle of equal rights and opportunities laid down by the 2005 law. I am convinced that everyone has talents and that, at all ages of life, they must be recognized, promoted and supported. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are my thoughts on a text that I would like to live up to the ambitions we have for our country. The debate will of course be decisive. If we are demanding, it is because the stakes are high and we want this reform to lead all those who now expect a professional future, especially young people, on the right track.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u86	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u87	Madam President, Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, "work is the bread for the great nations". Mirabeau's words remind us of the essential place that work occupies in our lives. It enables man, not only to accomplish himself personally, but also to contribute to the development of the society to which he belongs. This opportunity to work, to flourish professionally, should be offered to all. Yet, in 21st century France, the labour market is still too fragmented and exclusive. People with disabilities continue to face severe difficulties in accessing and maintaining employment. The latter have an unemployment rate of around 19%, compared with an average of less than 10% for the French as a whole. Title III of the bill we are studying looks in part at the situation of these people with disabilities, who find it very difficult to find a job. Since the law of 10 July 1987, enterprises with at least 20 employees have been obliged to employ at least 6 per cent of persons with disabilities. In the event of failure, both private and public employers must make a financial contribution to the National Association for the Management of the Vocational Integration Fund for the Disabled. An Act of 2005 strengthened these measures with more severe penalties. The threat of a financial penalty, however, has not really improved the situation. The employment rate of disabled workers in private enterprises is 3.4 per cent in direct employment and 5.2 per cent in the public sector. If one employer in two pays a financial penalty, we can only bitterly see the failure of this policy based on coercion. In order to reduce the unemployment of disabled workers on a sustainable basis, we need to take new and more incentive measures. This is the whole issue of the consultations initiated by the Ministry of Labour, the first phase of which was concluded on 5 June. Madam Minister, in the presence of Mrs Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, you made announcements last Tuesday, presenting new measures for a more inclusive and incentive world of work. I'm not gonna make you an inventory at the Prévert. However, I would like to highlight some of them, as important as they seem to me. It is worth noting, for example, that the employment obligation is maintained at 6%. This rate will ultimately not be revised every five years, but will be the subject of a public parliamentary debate to assess progress. I also welcome your willingness to improve access to learning for people with disabilities and to simplify the administrative procedures of companies. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the associations concerned regret the lack of communication of figures and of more precise impact studies on the consequences of these measures, in particular with regard to contributions to the funds which finance aid for workers with disabilities and enterprises. I regret, for my part, that the text was placed on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs, even though consultations on the employment of persons with disabilities were still under way. Consideration of the text could have been postponed for a week or two to include measures for persons with disabilities from the committee. They will be introduced, as a result of our discussion, by amendments. This questionable method could have given the impression that workers with disabilities are not a sufficient priority. I know that's not the case. The IDU, Action and Independent Group, however, did not wait until the end of the consultations to make proposals in favour of the world of disability. In particular, we have put in committee the increase in the CPF for disabled workers. Our group has also made amendments to encourage the transposition of a directive on the accessibility of public bodies' websites to persons with disabilities. We are all aware that this text will only partially resolve the employment difficulties faced by persons with disabilities. So our task is not over and I, like the associations, have a great deal of hope in the second phase of consultations which is now opening up to the issue of accompanying people hard hit by unemployment. The UDI, Action and Self-Employed Group wishes to take its full part in the debate and will therefore propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, several amendments aimed at better welcoming people with disabilities into the labour market. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] A society judges itself on the place it places for the most fragile. It is by working collectively, with will and envy, that we will succeed in advancing the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u88	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u89	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, France is showing growth of 1.9% for the first time since 2007, and this economic recovery should continue, according to the Bank of France's economic projections. Businesses are getting better and the unemployment rate is expected to decrease gradually to 7.9% in the last quarter of 2020. In order to make full use of the opportunities of this economic dynamism, the support of jobseekers, the strengthening of vocational training and the development of apprenticeship are essential. This is the condition for providing the labour market with a generation of workers ready to meet economic demand; It is also the condition that will give companies the means to develop with a rise in the skills of their employees. This is not a new observation, and that is why we agree that reform is necessary, but not just any one. However, the bill that you are introducing to us, the minister, a Liberal from an economic point of view, and a centralist from the point of view of governance, is inadequate. Worse, it's dangerous, for three reasons. The first is that the Government's approach to supporting the development of apprenticeship and vocational training is likely to be counterproductive and have devastating effects in many territories. The second is based on the fact that the reform of unemployment insurance will produce great inequalities, especially when you strengthen the control of the unemployed where all the experts point out that it is useless. The third, because your reform devotes individualism and is actually directed to the "first of the ropes", to executives and executives, while the training needs are elsewhere. They are among job seekers, among the precarious, those who chain short, part-time CSDs and who work day-to-day. Let us look at this text in detail. With regard to learning, Minister, your reform is running a number race: the quantity is preferred to the quality of training. The ambition to catch up with Germany in terms of the number of apprentices is at the expense of know-how and craft trades. Thus, with contract financing, only the most economically profitable CFAs will be able to maintain their business. The others will have to close the training courses that attract the least number of apprentices. This leads to a double pitfall: a loss of competitiveness for CFAs located in rural areas, which do not attract as many apprentices as those in metropolitan areas, as well as for handicrafts which do not have the same financial means as the BTP or aeronautics companies. This bill also weakens the educational quality of training, as one moves from a public service logic of general interest to an economic logic of competitive market. In doing so, it is likely that "classical training" will be reduced to a congruous portion in favour of "technical training" which the CFAs will be obliged to amplify in the interest of contractual attractiveness. As a result, the Government is likely to destabilize the level IV and V CFAs, i.e. those for the least educated, precisely where the opposite should be done, if the inclusion of the farthest from employment audiences remains the priority. With regard to the training of assets and their increase in competence, if monetisation – i.e. the transition from an account in hours to a euro account – of the personal training account is potentially a simplification, it is undoubtedly accompanied by a reduction in training entitlements. Let us take the example of the training report, which cost 24 hours yesterday and will cost 1500 euros tomorrow: it took a year of work to be able to afford it, it will take three tomorrow. The demonstration is eloquent; above all, it demonstrates a reduction in the means used to encourage the upgrading of the skills of employees. The abolition of individual training leave and its partial replacement with the "Transitional Training Personal Account" threaten the long-term conversion of the workforce, since the Government removes any guarantee on the level of remuneration allocated during this training, which amounts to killing in the egg any long-term training initiative taken by the employees. With regard to unemployment insurance, the Government's stated objective was to provide security for workers and job seekers after having made the labour market more flexible by order. However, if the Government's communication exercise had borne fruit, the reality was quite different. Indeed, there is a strengthening of the control of jobseekers, while Pôle Emploi ensures that 86% of jobseekers are actually looking for a job. The opening of return-to-employment allowances for resignations is restricted to the point of only 20,000 cases in France. The disappointment will be great. The extension of unemployment insurance to the self-employed, subject to extraordinary situations, and finally the support of jobseekers, are the great absences of this reform. You choose to control job seekers rather than their support, at the risk of speeding up the withdrawal of benefits and reducing the duration of compensation. Like me, you know that the strengthening of controls encourages job seekers to accept degraded forms of employment – very short CSD, part-time, low wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u90	That's the goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u91	It is therefore high time that you assumed your policy, which will weaken the situation of our most precarious and vulnerable compatriots, and which will increase the inequalities in this country. Finally, the Government chose to trust a newly created administrative agency to manage the competence of learning in place of the regions, which had previously exercised this competence. Also, you are looking forward to the professional branches, which are often not even structured. This reflects a technocratic and centralizing vision of power, while it was necessary to trust the regions, which are most in a position to have a real vision of spatial planning through learning. Let us remember here that never since 1982, and the creation of regions as full-function territorial communities, had they been deprived of jurisdiction. The social dialogue, which should have emerged strengthened from this reform, is in fact stifled in favour of an ever more powerful technostructure. I come to my conclusion. In this case, this bill manifests a wise mixture of economic ultraliberalism, on the one hand, with the commodification of vocational training, and unbridled jacobinism, on the other, if we pay attention to governance and the role of the regions and social dialogue. Nevertheless, it is not too late to change course. The Government can still review its copy and devote the role of the regions in relation to the vocational branches concerning apprenticeship; giving more room to social dialogue and support for jobseekers; develop the financing of occupational transitions and the rise in the skills of employees with a 100% funded CIF and a strengthened CPF. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on some benches of the GDR group]] This is the cost of a virtuous policy for employment and for the economic competitiveness of French companies. Madam Minister, if you heard right and changed the direction of this text, you could count on our support. In the meantime, you will find a certain opposition with us, because this text is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u92	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u93	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, homo economicus is back! And with what strength! No sector should be banned, not even that of training which, in France, has always been rather spared. No one would have the idea of challenging the scale and depth of the changes under way, and above all the changes to come. It is also clear that these upheavals require a renewed approach to training, to the extent of their radicality and speed. But more than anything else, this renewal is linked to our vision of the world, and first of all to that of the world of work. He is even the main marker. In short, we are at one of these crossroads where the future of a society is firmly committed. It is not unusual to note that with this text, the fine word "training" is in the process of giving way to that of "competences". The training action becomes, in fact, "the action contributing to the development of skills" – that is, Article 4 – while the training plan is referred to as the "skills development plan" – that is, Article 6 – and that, more generally, the ambition is now to bring about a "skills society". Yes, skills are of course essential but, no, they do not cover the multiple dimensions or the fundamental openness suggested by the idea of vocational training. Reduced to skills alone, apprenticeship and vocational training are integrated into the large family of merchant objects and, as such, subject to the laws of the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u94	Very well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u95	It is impossible to ignore or consider as a matter of course the logic of privatising the apprenticeship training centres that we are being offered. The liberalisation of the opening up of the CFA, the single cost per contract, the abolition of the training card, the pre-eminence of the professional branches, the withdrawal of the regions, all this is supposed to give new impetus to learning. At what cost? The race for profitability, the competition of training and the territories, the exclusive coupling of skills and companies would therefore have become the guarantees of the quality of the education of our young people and their future? This text deliberately chooses not to guarantee any of the balances involved in alternance between theoretical and in-company training. Whether it is the legal regime of apprentices, professional certifications – from the code of education to the code of work – or the choice of the management of apprenticeships by the professional branches, it is a whole part of our training system that shifts away from the educational sphere and from the general interest. For all kinds of reasons, learning suffers from an image deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u96	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u97	It is often experienced as a default choice. I doubt very much, in spite of the communication campaigns, that a general reversal of the situation is taking place. Even if they do not master all the codes of the education system, families know, almost intuitively, what is good for their children. It is not the imbroglio created of all parts around the public service of orientation, whose primary role is emphasized by all, that will reassure them! Colleagues, I had never considered that training could one day, in France, be inspired by this dogma of pure and perfect competition, of this heavy hypothesis of school, whose damage is measured at every moment! The monetisation of the personal training account, which is unanimous against it, will remain as a symbol of this development. The individualisation of the paths it promotes is also reminiscent of the management's whims of the 1980s, by which one wanted to make each employee believe that he was a small personal enterprise – a PEP – from which he would derive his net individual profit – his BIN. We can easily imagine the creativity of these managers if the internet and its applications had existed! This ultraliberal logic leads to paradoxes. While the obligation to be fully prepared for occupational mobility is being met, the resources for retraining are being reduced. The individual training leave, which dates back to 1971, will give way to a personal training account – CPF – of less ambitious occupational transition and still fluctuating contours. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Vocational training is one of these privileged places where individual destiny meets the collective project. It prohibits arbitrary strategies and mobilizes all human dimensions. In 1971, as in 1982, the Delors and Auroux laws on vocational training were passed in the context of economic and social modernisation. Wanting to respond to important challenges, they have placed the person and the worker at the centre of their decisions. Many interests, as we know, have fought against them. Your law, Madam Minister, burys the spirit of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u98	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u99	[[Smile]] They could have asked Myriam El Khomri to intervene!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, this bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future would deserve far more than the five minutes reserved for non-attached Members so that we can discuss all aspects of it. I will therefore focus on learning reform, which has raised high expectations. Unfortunately, serious concerns are being expressed today on the ground, as the provisions envisaged undermine the tools necessary to maintain access to learning in all our territories, without giving their rightful place to the regions, which are nevertheless legitimate to carry out these policies. I fear that these measures will exacerbate, particularly in rural areas and territories, the youth unemployment rate, which is still too high. Yet, as we all know, learning is a path of excellence that allows us to maintain our valuable know-how and, often, it is the guarantee of successful professional integration in many sectors – I am thinking in particular of craftsmanship, which I know well. Your text calls into question the role of the regions, which, from my point of view, characterizes a centralizing vision to which I cannot, of course, subscribe. This is a first, since the laws of decentralization, to which I am deeply committed. While the regions have this link of proximity and, above all, the confidence of the companies to set up apprenticeship contracts in order to anticipate the needs by living areas, your text provides for the end of the drawing up of the training map by the regions, which will necessarily have negative consequences, especially for the sections with low numbers. In Occitanie, 6000 apprentices, or 17% of them, attend understaffed apprenticeship sections. This will involve 68 CFAs out of 98 and 623 training courses, or about 35%. It is therefore about 700 CFA which, at the national level, know sections with low strength or positioned on rare or emerging jobs that will suffer from your reform. Your choice will inevitably have consequences in terms of spatial planning, which, once again, will accentuate the existing divides between neighbourhoods, rural areas and urban areas. I also believe that your reform will strengthen social inequalities since families with sufficient income will register their children in cities where the supply will be wider and more comprehensive. With your bill and the implementation of the financing to the contract, i.e. at a uniform cost fixed, in Paris, by the branches, you return to the precise and reactive steering of the learning in the territories. Low-staffed sections will be threatened with closure because they are insufficiently cost-effective. The piloting of learning must remain regional, and it is not the "orientation" skill that will compensate for the shortcomings of your text. To date, the regions have played a role in linking CFAs and vocational lycées. But we can ask ourselves who will play this indispensable role tomorrow. As a first step, the regions should be entrusted with the payment of the single aid. But you finally decided to entrust it to the State through the deconcentrated administrations, while everyone agrees that they are sorely lacking in resources. For TPEs and SMEs, this will only have extremely damaging consequences, since many regions paid aid to enterprises employing apprentices in addition to those granted by the State to encourage and support apprenticeships. I fear that, with your reform, they will stop doing so, which will keep you away from the objective pursued. The development of learning can only be ensured by a fair distribution of the share of financing to contracts and of the share of financing by modulation. For this to happen, we believe it is essential not to increase the burden on businesses and to give the regions a real dynamic fiscal resource that will enable them to meet the needs. I hope, Madam Minister, that our discussions will restore skills to the regions, because they are best placed, together with businesses, to revive learning, as demonstrated by the results achieved in many territories through proactive policies – we see on the ground. I think that our discussions on these various aspects will be an opportunity to move forward and correct your text, because this is an essential point for us, as is the issue of unemployment insurance. They will condition our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u101	All right! You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u102	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u103	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, presented as the "big bang" of vocational training, leaves us puzzled. For the past year, you are constantly repeating that you want to free synergies, free initiatives, free employees, free companies and, here, free learning. There is, however, a part of the society that you do not want to free: these are the territories. Your strategy in this bill is not well understood. You decentralize on the one hand – that's what you're suggesting – with the regional directorates of the National Office for Information on Teachings and Professions, ONISEP – and you re-centralize on the other, with the Council for Professional Development, the CEP, and the Apprenticeship Tax. When you decentralize, the transfer always takes half: poorly compensated financial means for communities, little or no transfer of human resources and, above all, little or no clarification of decision-making power. In short, the prefect is still there and wants to have the last word – this is the case in a number of areas, including vocational training. While the last law on training in 2014 finalized the transfer of competence to the regions, the regional committees on employment, training and vocational guidance, for example, CREFOPs are co-chaired by the regional president and the prefect. Why co-chair? I am not talking about the exclusion of regional or territorial trade union organisations from these bodies, an unacceptable anti-democratic rule! You intend to transfer career guidance to the regions, but only the regional directorates: you tell us that ONISEP must remain national and that there is no question of strengthening the representation of the regions in its steering on the board of directors. In addition, regional staff can only be made available. So there will be two bosses. What is the point, then, of transferring regional directorates – unless, as often, it is only a false transfer of responsibility, a decentralisation in trompe l'oeil? The same applies to the so-called regional public guidance service, which the regions are supposed to coordinate. Again, their decision-making power and room for manoeuvre are very weak. The various structures that make up it – local missions, animation, research and information centres on training and regional employment and training observatories – CARIF-OREF – continue to receive directives and appropriations from the ministries. Together with several colleagues, we have tabled amendments to ensure that these public guidance services are managed by the regions. We wanted the state's credits that contribute to the financing of these structures to be transferred to the regions but... censor article 40! We can't even discuss it! At the same time, you are re-centralizing the Council's national procedure in professional evolution and privatizing it, thus plunging into concern the entire network of Individual Training Leave Management Funds – FONGECIF – in addition to the transformation of individual training leave – CIF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u104	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u105	If, of course, this network could always be improved, it worked rather well. Its technicians demonstrate real expertise in the individual accompaniment of employees but you intend to dismantle it for – this government so much likes to say – to make the holy competition work. You choose to delegate to the private sector rather than fight to improve and empower the territorial public service. We have a real ideological divergence here. I am now addressing the reform of learning, in particular the question of the CFA, which is of great concern to us, in particular the elected representatives of Corsica – but I understand that we are not the only ones. Here again, the key words are: re-centralization – apprenticeship tax – and privatization of CFA governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u106	It's always the same...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u107	You are trying to regulate the system by the companies, the branches, by removing – I quote – the "administrative regulation" of the CFAs. In doing so, you pose a huge risk to the territories in terms of the diversity of training through learning – especially in regions where the economy is very little industrialized and diversified, with a risk of monopoly and oligopoly to contain, where the branches do not exist or do not cover a sufficiently broad spectrum. This is particularly true of a territory such as Corsica. You say that this reform of the CFA is in line with the expectations of the field, but when all a political representation, a whole social body, all the economic actors of a territory say, proclaim, affirm that this vision from above, well jacobine, simplifying and comfortable, does not in any way correspond to the interests of the local economic fabric, of the young apprentices of the territory, nor to the common good, you never listen! In Corsica, we do not want to offer our young people only training in the professions of large distribution or tourism, even if it is necessary. We want diversification from sectors that need to be developed, such as the timber sector. Thanks to its powers extended by the law of 2002, the Assembly of Corsica voted a new map of ambitious and structured formations. This regional plan was developed in consultation with professionals within the multi-stakeholder dialogue forum CREFOP. The development of CFAs and apprenticeships is therefore part of this framework, based on a general projection and reflection on the development of new fields in particular, while creating the necessary link with vocational lycées. By removing this long-term political vision, you are putting a dangerous stop to Corsica's economic recovery policy that we are implementing today. The President of the Executive of Corsica has written to you, Madam Minister, as well as the Executive Adviser in charge of vocational training. But their call for dialogue remained a dead letter. You haven't even taken care of answering them, and that's a shame. [[Applause on a few benches of GDR groups]] Flick and amend your text! Otherwise, we will obviously vote against it, but we will go mainly on the ground, to mobilize those who know what they are talking about and who build local development every day, step by step.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u109	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u110	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what society do we want? It is a central question to address such a text, rich in eighty-two articles, which is working to change the pillar of our society, namely our human resources. It seems necessary above all to recall who is at the centre of this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u111	Citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u112	It is women and men, young people, job seekers, employees, posted workers, workers with disabilities and civil servants who return to their administration following a suspension of posting. It was by giving priority to jurisdiction, inclusion and equal treatment that we worked on this bill. Our approach is not structural, but human. This bill is a continuation of measures already taken, such as social dialogue, simplification and the right to error. It is high time to commit ourselves collectively to a more open society, and it also passes through the world of work, a key element of self-building, both personally and socially. For people with disabilities, employment is a major challenge. Since the 2005 Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities, 2.7 million people have benefited from the obligation to work, which is a huge step forward. However, these figures need to be improved, as French companies do not always meet the quota imposed. The employment rate of persons with disabilities is only 3.8 per cent in private companies and 4.4 per cent in the public service. On the other hand, the unemployment rate of persons with disabilities is twice as high as the national average, at 19 per cent. Only 1% of apprentices are disabled, although it is known how much apprenticeship promotes occupational integration. This bill seeks to enhance and strengthen direct employment. All economic, social and medical actors must commit themselves to enabling these people to be included in businesses, in employment. We have also strengthened the role of the appropriate companies, which are necessary to include people who are more remote from employment in the ordinary environment, and which must nevertheless continue to participate in economic life through this privileged accompaniment. Our approach is voluntary and consists of maintaining the efficiency of the employment rate at 6%, simplifying administrative procedures for businesses, making the administration's websites accessible to increase access to rights, and encouraging internships, even unpaid, in the mandatory declaration of employment of disabled workers – DOETH – in order to encourage initial experiences. Today it is up to us to give another boost, in line with what was done in 2005. With this same determination, we impose an obligation to achieve results in terms of equality between women and men in the workplace. There is no appeal: pay gaps are still large, ranging from 9% of the same job to 25% of the entire career. Title III of the draft law introduces a requirement for transparency of results and indicators of calculation. We are at the heart of a social issue, where the culture of equality between women and men is not just a matter of communication, but of concrete and measurable measures. It is a model of society that we want, and its circumvention is fraud. Without a priori and without appearance, we wish to address in the same way a central issue for our Europe of employment, that of posted workers. While there are 516000 posted workers in Europe, the revision of the European directive has responded to the current challenges. At the national level, we are directing our actions towards strengthening the response to abuse. Almost 70000 checks were carried out in 2015, their number increased by 6 % in 2016, the anti-fraud target will be further strengthened in 2018, and sanctions will be re-evaluated. Members of the La République en marche group have tabled an amendment to specify the prohibition on the employment of French workers by European companies, often border companies, which post French workers in France. This practice, which in no way corresponds to the original spirit of the 1996 directive, revised on 29 May in the European Parliament, will become illegal. In this spirit, we want to encourage and protect the mobility of all workers, in order to promote the Europe of employment, while at the same time fighting new forms of abuse. Finally, we want to strengthen the diversity of public service career paths and experiences, including the recognition of experience during contract suspension. Fostering fluidity between the private sector and the public service will open up to enhanced career management. The diversity of pathways and profiles are major assets for our public services and our administration. Thus, we maintain promotion rights during this period of contract suspension, over a maximum of five years of career mobility. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Being an actor in working life, training and possibly retraining, facilitating careers, promoting a society offering the capacity for emancipation through working life, valuing career paths between civil service and the private sector and encouraging Europe's employment by mastering it in its evolutions are the stakes of a progressive society, to which we subscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u113	What are you doing for the alternation? It's just smoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u114	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u115	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today in open session examining the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future. My colleagues in the IDU Group, acting and self-employed, having already mentioned the subjects of vocational training, apprenticeship and disability, I will elaborate on the provisions of Title II, which deals with the reform of unemployment insurance. The directions of the reform that you are proposing are in keeping with the measures that we discussed during the review of the Social Security Funding Bill last fall. I am referring to the abolition of unemployment and sickness contributions for the wage-earners and the reduction of employers' contributions with the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in long-term burdens. At the time, we welcomed the desire to restore purchasing power to employees, while criticising the method and the choice to use an increase in the CSG rate, which had a lasting negative impact on certain categories of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u116	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u117	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] I cannot go back to that, but I would remind you of our preference for an increase in the VAT rate, which would have had the advantage of taxing imported products more, thereby involving foreign companies in the financing of our social protection system. This has not been your choice, and we regret it. The philosophy behind your reform of unemployment insurance is a changeover. We are gradually moving from a management paritarianism to a state administration of unemployment insurance: in 2019, the cumulation of the abolition of wage contributions and the exemption of part of employers' contributions on low wages will thus lead the state to take over more than 40% of the income from unemployment insurance. In the face of this change, our position is nuanced. We support measures that promote lower labour costs, as we are convinced that the best safety net for individuals remains the ease and ability to quickly find employment. It is therefore essential to encourage our companies to hire, relax and loosen the standards that weigh on their hiring policies. However, we want to mark our commitment to a strong social democracy: the intermediary bodies of the social partners are one of the levers of transformation in our country. The recovery of unemployment insurance, with the introduction of a scoping by the State, which will now set a financial path and a deadline for reaching an agreement between the social partners, must not lead to a weakening of their role. We are also more reserved on one of the flagship measures of the bill, which was a campaign promise of candidate Macron, the opening of the unemployment insurance plan to resignations and self-employed people. We understand the need to further secure the pathways and new working relationships generated by the growth of the platforms. The aspiration for more freedoms in the professional setting also corresponds to the aspiration of the new generations. The draft law provides for several safeguards to prevent the cost of compensation for resigning employees from being too high for the unemployment insurance accounts – the impact assessment estimates between 230 and 345 million euros. However, can we guarantee that these safeguards will suffice to avoid the effects of a bounty? With regard to the extension of unemployment insurance to self-employed workers, the Council of State has been critical of the philosophy of your reform and points to the risk of unequal treatment, since the new benefit you create is not the counterpart of any social contribution. Moreover, it is not certain that this measure is a demand from the self-employed themselves. Moreover, we are reserved for the cost of these measures for unemployment insurance, while the debt of the Inter-branch National Union for Employment in Industry and Trade – UNEDIC – now exceeds 32 billion euros, for a deficit of about 3 billion euros per year. With regard to short contracts, we welcome the adoption by the Committee on Social Affairs of an amendment to allow the hiring of a full-time CSD to compensate for the simultaneous absence of two part-time employees. We will defend an amendment to ensure the possibility of concluding a CDD contract to replace several employees who are absent successively. This will reduce the number of short contracts, which are very costly for unemployment insurance, while securing both employers and employees. Finally, we welcome the new measures aimed at increasing the support of jobseekers. I am thinking in particular of the customisation of the criteria for reasonable job offers, which are now defined with the person concerned on a case-by-case basis, rather than in a standardised way. This will make it possible to take better account of the diversity of paths and the personal constraints of each person. Similarly, the experiment of a logbook to be kept monthly by job seekers is in line with this personalized accompaniment, even if it is only for use that we can judge its applicability, especially for the farthest segments of the population from employment. Finally, we support the revision of the sanctions scale. In particular, we welcome the reduction of the duration of the cancellation to 15 days in the event of the absence of the job-seeker on an appointment with his employment adviser, in return for a tightening of the penalties in case of refusal of a reasonable job offer. This reversal of sanctions is logical: it was disproportionate to be punished by two months of de-listing for having missed a simple appointment with his advisor. However, it will be necessary to ensure that this tightening of sanctions is well associated with increased support, in order to improve the orientation of applicants. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] While we therefore welcome the progress proposed, we are nevertheless addressing the consideration of this bill with the desire to act, enrich and clarify certain provisions. This will be discussed in greater detail during the discussion of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u118	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u119	In your opening remarks, Madam Minister, you mentioned Simone de Beauvoir. Let me begin my speech in the general discussion by quoting François Mitterrand, who wrote in L'bee et l'architecture: "My freedom is only valid if I assume that of others. » In my view, this quotation alone summarizes our difference in political doctrine about your bill: to be able to exercise full freedom with respect to career paths presupposes that everyone exercises his or her own freedom. However, your bill does not allow it, because it has the sole pivot of individual freedom: that of using a smartphone to have in real time its dashboard of the personal account training; to be able to make its training market in order to find the one which best corresponds to its desire for occupational mobility. But it does not ensure that this exercise of individual freedom is effective for all. In other words, the employee well aware of the new technologies will find, with your bill, the possibility of fully exercising his or her individual freedom. But this will not be the case for the employee who is further away from the system, nor for the employee who will no longer have the opportunity to take advantage of a stock of skills to take stock of his situation before being able to engage in training, nor for the apprentice who will no longer have a CFA in his territory – I am thinking of the 5,000 apprentices from Occitanie who are likely to find themselves in this situation. Your bill is, of course, fully in line with the philosophy promoted by the President of the Republic, which aims to address the individual first and foremost, without considering that what is the strength and the greatness of our country, whether economic or diplomatic, is its cohesion. It is this cohesion that has supported the success of the Thirty Glorious, but that, unlike us, you do not consider a strength or a value. Ensuring this cohesion requires thinking of reform on the basis not of individual freedom alone, but of the real exercise of freedom by all. This is not proposed by your text; Worse, in some respects, he challenges it. As you will not convince us, and no doubt we will not convince you with regard to our vision of the real exercise of freedom,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u120	That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u121	...we want to use this parliamentary debate to help improve the bill on a few points. This led to the adoption of eleven of the amendments tabled by the New Left Group during the discussion of the text by the Committee on Social Affairs. Thus, the increase in the personal training account, proposed by our group, was accepted. You also agreed that employees could use the CPF to pass the heavyweight permit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u122	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u123	Our amendment to open up the validation of experience to solidarity workers was accepted, as was the amendment to reintroduce the fight against illiteracy in the skills development plan. Employment will now be required to notify jobseekers of the time limits and remedies available to them to challenge the decision which would deny them the award of unemployment insurance benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u124	A gas factory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u125	Finally, regarding the overseas areas that we consider to be the great forgotten of your bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u126	Yes! They don't like overseas!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u127	... we have adopted the promotion of alternation in the overseas regions, as well as facilitated mobility. For the sitting, we are proposing further progress, and we hope that you will support it, Minister. First, with regard to the personal training account, we have tabled an amendment to protect you, Minister, from Bercy. I'll explain. Through your bill, you monetize the personal training account: an employee will hold on his account, not hours, but euros. This may be seen as a better readability, but since the devil is in the details, this readability should not be costly for the employee. One hour, whether measured in 2018 or 2022, is always an hour; This is not the case for a euro: its value in 2022 is not the same as in 2108. The monetary value of course changes with inflation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u129	A few days ago, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – published the inflation rate: 2%. By making a simple small discount calculation on a tabletop, and by assuming an inflation rate of 2%, we find that, if there is no monetary discount on the CPF, employees will lose 10% of their training rights every five years! Thus, the 20 hours of training that an employee would have in 2018 will only represent 18.11 hours five years later. It is therefore essential that the CPF take into account basic economic principles, starting with inflation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u130	Yes! Otherwise, it won't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u131	I think we learn that at the first economics class! That is why we have tabled an amendment to revalue the CPF for inflation on 1 January. Obviously, the head of the text for La République en marche, Sylvain Maillard, saw that there was a bug there; It has therefore also tabled an amendment to refer the matter "to the board of directors of France Competencies for an opinion concerning the updating of the rights to the personal training account, taking into account the general evolution of the prices of goods and services". Forgive me, Mr Maillard, but I do not think there is a need to refer the matter to the board of directors of France Competencies to ask him for an update calculation that we can all do here. INSEE publishes the monthly rate of inflation; We can therefore make this calculation every month, without having recourse to France's skills. We also believe that the CPF should be increased to 35 hours per year, not 24 hours per year, as you propose. These thirty-five hours are not of our invention, they correspond to what was decided in the national interprofessional agreement. As you know, Minister, we are concerned about social dialogue. Respecting social dialogue means respecting the decisions resulting from the agreement. That's what we did in 2013. With regard to production schools, we thank you, Minister, for reversing and tabling an amendment in open session that recognizes the contribution made by the twenty-five production schools that our country has to date. However, the devil is still in the details: you have undertaken to have an agreement signed between the State and the National Federation of Production Schools, so that the professional branches abound their credits in lieu of the business tax. To date, these schools have been able to achieve a financial balance thanks to the apprenticeship tax quota and the regional grants that came in addition. For apprentice training centres, previous speakers noted, your bill sets out two new principles. According to the principle of contract financing, each CFA will receive a national amount defined by each branch for each apprentice it will receive: the more apprentices a CFA will have, the more it will cover its structural costs. You sought to reassure us that EUR 250 million would be allocated to the regions to finance support for CFAs which are not of critical size but which play an indispensable role in the cohesion of our territory. However, as we have done, we believe that it would be more than 400 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u132	On what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u133	So 150 million are missing. The second principle is the total freedom to open and close centres and sections. It will now be decided by the professional branches. Again, how can we ensure fair treatment? Our country has 700 professional branches; Some have a few tens of employees, others hundreds of thousands. In addition, their organization is very disparate. This total freedom will lead to the competition of the offer of training, in particular with that of vocational high schools. It may also call into question certain CFAs for which the regions have paid for equipment. Don't you see there, Madam Minister, a waste of public money?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u134	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u135	We fear that in the name of the freedom you want to give the branches, you have removed the pilot from the plane.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u136	[[Smile]] It's the autonomous plane!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u137	On the budget side, you are announcing a plan of EUR 13.8 billion. When we recalculate, we realize that it is in fact, for a large part, the recycling of existing money. If we check on the budget yellow annexed to the draft finance law for 2018, we find that, of that amount, less than 1 billion euros have been adopted in payment appropriations. This means that you will have to put on the table, with each finance bill, 3.2 billion euros in payment appropriations, for the next four years. We'll know how to remind you. As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, your proposal is far from the campaign promises of the President of the Republic. The self-employed would be 30,000 to be involved. But for this to happen, they must fulfil several conditions: that they have undergone liquidation, that they have worked for several years and that they have achieved a profit of at least 10000 euros per year. If these three conditions are met, they can have 800 euros per month for six months. It's a first step, but it's far from the presidential promise. The same applies to resignations. It would appear that these two measures cost EUR 500 million per year. The Government was careful not to specify how it was going to finance that amount and to whom it was going to take the money. To sum up, Madam Minister, we disagree with the philosophy of the text and we are also concerned about the non-said of your project, whether it is on the budget part or on a number of rights, particularly with regard to the overseas. Of course, these non-compliances are likely to turn into budget loopholes. The hour of truth will be in the next finance bill. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group. – Mr. Jean-Félix Acquaviva, Mr. Paul-André Colombani and Ms. Jeanine Dubie also applaud]] We therefore expect from the debate in the House that you will provide us with answers, as well as the necessary guarantees, which today do not exist in the text, and, above all, that you will return to the lack of equity regarding learning, since the measures drawn up in Paris will have to apply to all territories, regardless of local realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u138	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u139	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, to choose her professional future, what a vast project! The draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future affects both learning and training and unemployment insurance. As the minister said, France is a bad pupil in terms of learning. For almost thirty years, the right-wing and left-wing executives have failed to reform and enhance this mixed vocational and school path. I remember that, during the 2012 election campaign, François Hollande announced that he would increase the total number of apprentices to 500,000 in the training centres in 2017. What happened? Their numbers are down! In 2011, France had 436000 apprentices; In 2015, they were 405,000: the figures speak for themselves against the left. In the face of the national tragedy of unemployment in general, and that of first-time workers in the labour market in particular, the virtues of learning are absolutely unquestionable. The financial effort undertaken by the State has been very important. In the period from 2004 to 2010, it increased by 56 per cent. At the same time, the number of apprentices increased by only 16%. The return on additional spending was therefore very low, which logically raises doubts about the overall effectiveness of the system, which the current government has never called into question. Consider that an apprentice cost 18700 euros in 2012 compared to 14200 euros in 2004. The phenomenon does not deny itself and could even get worse. Learning is faced with several major problems. While the French are plebiscite its development, it is still too often regarded by young people and their families as a garage. With a lack of image, learning, a path of excellence, is still perceived as a failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u140	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u141	Another difficulty is that apprentices do not always find a stable job at the end of their cycle: in 2014, the employment rate of young people who have studied from the level of the certificate of professional fitness to that of the certificate of higher technician and graduate of apprenticeship was only 62%, compared with 69% in 2012. In addition, for former apprentices, stable jobs have become rarer: only 55% of them were on open-ended contracts seven months after the end of their apprenticeship contract. Entrepreneurs are sometimes reluctant to the system, hampered by the complexity of financing and administrative procedures. A total of 28.1% of apprenticeship contracts are broken by the employer or the apprentice. In 80% of cases, the termination of the contract results in a complete termination of the apprenticeship. Most of the concern is that the lowest skilled occupations have the highest rates of break-up. While learning progresses in favour of the most educated, it still appears strongly as a path of rapid relegation for the young people who have dropped out of the system. While I note that the Government has taken stock of the issue, I regret that not all the solutions have been studied and that, as usual, we simply want to hide the dust under the carpet by focusing on governance and taxation. More seriously, some measures could be dangerous, leading to the disappearance of CFAs in peripheral and rural territories. The most important thing is that if we want to improve the career path, it ceases to be seen as a form of relegation. In this case, symbolic reclamation is essential. Now it is the blind spot of this law and the reason that makes us fear a new failure. The 700 professional branches are not yet simplified, modernised and in line with all of today's trades. Moreover, their governances are weak as they are almost exclusively managed by the employers – in this case by the MEDEF. The reform of 8 August 2016, which aims to change these two essential points, is absolutely not finalized, since it is only in 2019 that the number of branches will have to be reduced to 200 and their governances will have to be reformed, via the Standing Joint Committee for the negotiation and interpretation of each branch, in the sense of the division of power between bosses, managers and employees within their respective directorates. [[Mr Ludovic Pajot applauds]] The agency France Competencies must go much further on the involvement of the State as a real strategist. Indeed, it is an opportunity or never to allow the State to introduce into vocational training policy a real strategic vision in relation to the needs of current qualifications and qualifications of the future, given its role in policies of reindustrialization, innovation, rural reinvestment and, more broadly, economic recovery in all areas. There are some notable advances, Madam Minister, but the overall picture is very inadequate, given the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u142	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u143	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam Chair of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, once again, Members who are not registered are looking up to this rostrum with their eyes riveted on the chronometer. Once again, your majority literally stifles the parliamentary debate by striking it with the seal of limited legislative time. I would like to solemnly say that this does not demonstrate a healthy French democracy, nor even a serenity on the part of the Government. You limit the freedom of expression of parliamentarians, and therefore the plurality of ideas expressed in this House. Your majority wants to "innovate," to focus on "freedom" and "emancipation," to use your own words, minister. This is certainly not the case with the organisation of this debate, and we regret it very much. Let us come to the text, on which we will therefore intervene on an ad hoc basis, first of all to stress in our turn the irreplaceable role of training. The knowledge society and the globalized world in which we live oblige each and every one of us to anticipate the future, and consequently to train, to acquire new knowledge and skills. This constant awakening too often comes up against the complexity of the right to training in France. Business leaders, particularly from TPEs and SMEs, as well as employees, often have the feeling of a Kafka system in view of the multiplicity of operators. If the professional branches are to occupy an important place in the social dialogue, training must remain a part of the transversal work. However, we are convinced that the centralization that you operate will make it more difficult for workers to move from one branch to another, while the fluidity of the career path should be a priority. In our view, it is even the key to modernising the right to training. I would like to mention here the concern expressed by the 900 employees of the FONGECIF network, and the danger still looming over the five jobs of the Corsican organization. Your bill marks the end of individual leave for training and the competition for professional development advice for employees. There is no doubt that learning, complex by definition, involves co-construction between the state, regions and enterprises. With this in mind, we are wondering about the concrete future of public services, whether it is the AFPA – National Agency for Adult Vocational Training – or the Pôle emploi or local missions. We also question the relationship between training centres, managed by the world of economics, and vocational colleges. The overall risk is that, under the pretext of rationalisation, you will further weaken small structures, employees and, consequently, social cohesion. For our part, we advocate training in line with territorial issues. When the various actors – elected, learning centres, entrepreneurs and training centres – work together, the entire territory is reviving. The reconciliation between the individual interests of workers and the skills needs of enterprises creates a virtuous circle in favour of balanced territorial economic development. It is this bond of closeness, personalized, that needs to be consolidated and not called into question. I would like to deal quickly, as was the case in committee, with the question of posted workers. It is important that all employees working in France pay the same contributions and have the same rights as residents: it is a question of social justice. In addition, I will make my own remarks by President Griset on the great inequality that affects the women collaborators of their spouses, who to date have neither the status nor the right to training. I also want to echo the concern of small business owners and artisans about the weight of regulation. For example, we would like to see an end to the ban on young people under the age of 16 from working in hotels and restaurants, on the pretext that they serve alcohol. Training also involves learning about consumption and the responsible use of products such as alcohol. I will conclude by referring to the difficulties faced by persons with disabilities. I have tabled a number of amendments on this subject which reflect the concerns expressed by disabled workers, amendments which I regret not to be able to defend because of the limited legislative time. This bill, which includes a specific article on the obligation to employ disabled workers, can be an important lever to facilitate their access to training. However, we want an article to deal with cases of resignation of disabled workers, the latter often intervening after a life accident. [[Mr. Jean-Félix Acquaviva, Ms. Jeanine Dubie, Mr. Jean Lassalle and Ms. Sylvia Pinel applaud]] The issue of learning development is crucial, both in terms of individual promotion and the return to healthy economic growth. We therefore hope that the parliamentary debate, from which we are excluded, will be an opportunity to improve the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u144	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u145	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Commission, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, today we begin the discussion of the bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future, the second part of the renovation of our social model, after the ordinances reforming labour law and before the reform of pensions. As an introduction, I want to go back to the ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue, having had the honour of being rapporteur of the bill concerned for the National Assembly, on which I have had the opportunity to speak before you on several occasions. It seems to me important to establish the logic and consistency of the work that we are doing here with the parliamentary majority as a whole and with the Government. The aim of this first text was to foster social dialogue and its actors in order to get out of the confrontational relations that mark the social history of our country, much more than that of its neighbours. This reform was aimed at providing pragmatic solutions for businesses, in particular SMEs and TPEs, which are real sources of jobs. These orders also include important advances for employees, granting them new rights that I will not return to. By making the bet of trust, the presidential majority has created an investment-friendly environment, generating economic growth, itself generating new jobs. Our country is undergoing major transformations, from the digital and robotic revolution to the emergence of a more resource-efficient economy. These transformations, which have a significant impact on the organisation of work, the professions and the skills expected by companies, require a rethinking of our social model on the following triptych: innovation and economic performance; building new freedoms; Social inclusion. As with "work" orders, we intend to ensure the success of our businesses while leaving no one on the edge of the road. This requires the access of all our citizens to employment, a vehicle for emancipation. The aim is to build a society of skills by creating new concrete rights for the assets; and, as with the ordinances, the presentation of the draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future was preceded by a long period of consultation and negotiation, which began in autumn 2017 with all relevant actors and the social partners. The draft law is structured around three headings: a reform of vocational training and apprenticeship (Title I), a reform of unemployment insurance (Title II) and provisions on employment, the strengthening of professional equality between women and men and the employment of persons with disabilities (Title III). I will not detail all the measures contained in these various headings: Mrs Catherine Fabre and Mrs Nathalie Elimas, and Mr Aurélien Taché, the rapporteur, have done so much better than I could do: there is no point in completing their comments, which were excellent. However, I would like to reiterate the full coherence of our reforms, which aim to free and protect all at once. [["Oh! » on several benches of the LR group]] We have been elected, ladies and gentlemen, to reform our country for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u146	Luckily, you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u148	Some, on different benches in this House, tell us that nothing needs to be changed, I hear you well; But we have a duty of lucidity: 1.3 million French are neither in a job, nor in training, nor in a course of study. Workers have twice as much access to vocational training as managers, and TPE employees are twice as likely to be trained as firms with more than 250 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u150	While 50% of trades will be profoundly transformed in the next 10 years, only one in two employees has access to vocational training. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to have ambition: a social ambition, all together, through the text you are proposing to us, Madam Minister. It is in order to fight with you all these inequalities that undermine our lives together that we are carrying out our reform work, and that all the deputies of the presidential majority, especially those of the La République group on the move, intend to put their mark on this bill. They will do so in full agreement with you, Madam Minister, as they have already done in committee, where many amendments – more than three hundred – were adopted, not only from our majority, but also from the other ranks of our assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, in the face of the tremendous revolution in this bill and the sometimes conservative reactions to it, sometimes to the right, sometimes to the left, I welcome the fact that social innovation is on our side.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u151	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u152	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a bill that includes some progress in favour of employees, in particular the funds dedicated to the personal training account and the solidarity of large companies with regard to TPEs and SMEs with a view to financing training plans. This bill will also have important implications for vocational training in the territories. I note in passing that he has nothing very girondin, since he is carrying out a recentralisation of the collection of the business tax. It should also be noted that it blurs local authorities by privatizing the organization of training at the branch level. Privatisation and recentralisation: this is what is at work, where our fellow citizens are entitled to expect further decentralisation and a strengthening of the strategic role of public authorities in the field of training. This is logical, since training is a key issue in the fight against unemployment and in adapting to the ever-increasing changes in the labour market. This is, in any case, too important a subject to deprive communities of it. However, with the abolition of the regulation of CFAs by the communities, the public thing is set aside. And why all that? To put an end to the so-called over-administrative regulation of vocational training? Of course, there are improvements to be made, I am aware of that. But to improve, it's not botter in touch; It is not to get rid of vocational training by strengthening it in the private sector on the pretext that the management of the difficulty is too complex for the public authorities. Today, the staff of training organizations are concerned. Many on my island have written to me, and I share their concern. I do not see how the branches, in some territories, will be able to structure training in place of the regions. I will take a very concrete example, already mentioned by my colleague Acquaviva in committee: the timber sector in a peripheral and isolated territory such as Corsica. Wood is a path of the future that the territorial community wishes to develop with a real strategic vision, in order to get the island out of the economic marasm where it has been immersed for two centuries. But what can the local wood branch do with this text? It doesn't even have four companies! How can they organize themselves? In small territories such as Corsica, the branches are not structured: without the intervention of the public authorities, they will not be able to organize themselves. Some come to tell us that this will be a kind of test for the channels, and that it will force them to organize themselves. Personally, I do not taste this Darwinian rhetoric a little easy, which consists of judging too quickly those who fail to do so. Once again, the laws made in Paris are completely disproportionate to the reality in Corsica, where public policies are deployed on a different scale from that of the continent. I don't want to excuse anyone here. I'm aware there's been some malfunction. But I doubt that direct use of branches is a solution. This is based on the existing one, which is already working, not betting on the future. Regional piloting of vocational training would have made it possible to invest in future training over the long term in sectors that are neither structured nor developed. In Corsica, only the branches of tourism and construction are roughly organized. But they will only have a short-term vision for the immediate needs of low-skilled and poorly paid occupations. I just want to make you understand that it is not by improving the operation of the candle that we invented the bulb.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u153	This one's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u154	Nor will it be by asking the existing branches to satisfy immediate needs that the skills of the future in a territory will be reconsidered. [[Ms Sylvia Pinel and Ms Jeanine Dubie, MM. Jean-Félix Acquaviva, Michel Castellani and Jean Lassalle applaud]] The scheduled legislative time will once again prevent us from defending our amendments. While I associate myself with the discontent and, at times, with the anger of our friend Jean Lassalle, I note that, forced to silence, we will again be unable to defend our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u155	It's nice of you to talk about me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u156	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u157	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "Petite Poucette is looking for work. And when she finds them, she's always looking for them, as long as she knows she can, overnight, lose the one she just found. This sentence is taken from the book Petite Poucette, written by Michel Serres, a philosopher whom, once, I wanted to quote. A debate went through the last presidential campaign in 2017: should a universal income and a robot tax be introduced? These two proposals are now being defended by prominent personalities, such as Elon Musk and Bill Gates. One can always wonder if work is man's future. In my view, as Dominique Méda explains, "the great challenge facing the state today is not to devote hundreds of billions of francs to the occupation of people [...], but to achieve [...] a desire for autonomy and freedom at home." Freedom is a fundamental value. Freedom is to choose one's destiny. Freedom means earning a dignified living and saying no to a profession in which there is no development. Freedom means emancipation in a society that often oppresses you, frames you, locks you in ways that you have not chosen. Who doesn't know a young person we've misdirected? In national education there is a very negative a priori on vocational training. In fact, Madam Minister, I would have liked to see Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, with you. Even today, in the minds of many teachers, the career path is seen as a path of failure. This necessarily affects the parents of students. The world is changing: technological, societal and cultural changes bring with them the need to rethink work and education. As legislators, we must try to anticipate the employment implications of the combined development of artificial intelligence, automation and robotics. As my esteemed colleague Cédric Villani says, in his report Making sense of artificial intelligence, we must ensure that artificial intelligence does not increase social and economic inequalities but helps to reduce them. Technological progress and employability are not contradictory. It is not credible to fight artificial intelligence solutions that will ultimately preserve employment by improving the health of our citizens, their working conditions and their skills. Today, more and more employees are suffering from job exhaustion, because they are stressed, because they fear that they are not performing well enough, because they are afraid of losing their jobs or, simply, because they are afraid for their future. We must lay the foundations for new occupational mobility, not only by changing the unemployment insurance system, which would be extended to all resigning and self-employed workers, but also by strengthening vocational training throughout the life course. On this last point, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, I would like to advocate Euro-Mediterranean cooperation for the training not only of students or apprentices, but also of all those who already have strong professional experience. This could be done within the framework of an Erasmus Mediterranean or even African programme in all fields of education, vocational training, health or trade. [[Smile]] I would like to end on a lighter note, which shows that, even in the most uncertain situations, there is always hope. In one of his sketches, Jamel Debbouze staged himself in front of his guidance counselor, who said to him: "My boy, you have no chance, so, grab her! Whatever our situation, hope is always allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u159	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u160	[[Smile]] Madam President, Madam Minister, let me first of all rejoice in seeing the non-attached people at such a party. If we do not move forward, we cannot at least say that we did not have the floor tonight. [[Smile]] Let me also be glad to see you in the chair, Madam President, and to see you, Madam Minister, so courageous, surrounded by all your companions. I've never seen such a skewer to present a text. Nor will we be able to say that, if it does not work, it will be the fault of women, because they have been put on the front line. [[Smile]] I believe that the Government, the President of the Republic and his majority are committed with this text to a fundamental element for its possible revival. I fear, however, that President Macron has not given himself all the means. It reminds me when, a year after his election, Mr. Hollande began detricating territories, launching "you will see what you are going to see! We saw: there's nothing left! I have heard from the beginning that the President of the Republic wanted to make sense of learning and the right to choose one's life. I understood that the text would begin with the transmission of knowledge to the school, from which no one would leave without learning the essentials, at least something, at least French, reading, counting, writing, using the Internet – which we undergo, most of the time. Where are we for the transmission of knowledge? And where are we with regard to cohesion, which was to take place at the age of 18, with the national service, which would have allowed our great people to meet again? All these young people, who would have lived a long time together, would have known each other and recognized each other. They wouldn't have made a difference between these forgotten mountains and their CFA – I'm talking about it, in case I forget it – that worked, despite everything, between these territories and these suburbs. I fear that the President of the Republic will make an error of assessment. There is a real case here, Madam Minister. That's why I recognize your great merit and courage in taking over the situation. The president said he wanted to put the state on the front line. Why not? The only problem is that I haven't seen much change in terms of debt. The President also said that he would revive Europe – I do not find it so revived – and put France back at the centre of the world. That's not how she feels!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u161	We're really looking for the center of the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u162	The regions had begun work on apprenticeship and vocational training. All of a sudden, we don't know where they are. Above all, who's going to pay? Which actor will you retain? For the State, this seems wrong, with debt, Europe and, above all, with the communicative optimism of the President of the Court of Auditors, which my colleagues in the Committee on Finance and I have heard again. I don't think there's anything to expect. In addition, Minister, you are announcing the reform of the organization of public life. In the territories, do you think that the chambers of commerce and industry – CCI – which have been destroyed, or that the companies, which have not been asked for, unless CAC 40 has given you very strong assurances, will pay? Who will pay for all this, in such a disorganized context? I don't know. I therefore see only one service to be rendered to the President of the Republic, that of telling him that, together, this evening, we had one idea: that he withdraws this text, which is premature. With a text on which it could be revived, we will return to the basis on which it should have started – giving meaning to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u163	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u164	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u165	Madam Chair, Minister, Committee Chair, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, you have the art of giving attractive titles to your bills. And this one is no exception since you have not hesitated to place it under the banner of freedom and choice. While one can only bow to such an umbrella, one still has to face the reality of the labour market. And, unfortunately, it is more complex and unequal than you suggest. I can explain: like you, I note that in France, and despite many measures and measures distilled by the Government, the unemployment rate is still worrying. What's your answer? Training. And you're right. This is what the French demand: more flexibility in their working lives. 75% of them are prepared to change jobs. To this end, 82% of the staff who are involved in vocational training are in the process of completing vocational training. To meet this expectation, Madam Minister, you are proposing to develop graduate training. But you do this not only by abolishing the individual training leave but also by creating a personal training account, fed in euros and not in hours, while giving the employee the opportunity to dispose of it freely. Clearly, you want to empower him by giving him the opportunity to manage his rights to training as he sees fit. And that, using a digital application. Why not? I share with you the idea that, if the state is to care for everyone, it cannot substitute for it, the risk of becoming a kind of infantilizing big mother. But there's a little hindrance, if I may say so. With a basic allocation of 5000 euros over ten years, how can you seriously claim to accompany an employee? Let's talk about numbers: qualifying or reorientation training – financed so far by the abundance of individual training leave – will simply be inaccessible to employees, since a CIF file in Île-de-France costs the €27,000 basket. Let's talk about learning again, and so orientation. I am short of time because, as I recall, non-registrants do not have the opportunity to exceed their speaking time, but I cannot help but mention here the 390 information and guidance centres, 7 of which in my department, the Hérault, which the Ministry of National Education intends to close, a decision detrimental to the territorial meshing necessary to be close to the young citizens. If you really want to go to a society of "freedom and choice", as you say, then you should be given the means to do so. I believe that we are, in this House, repus, not to say "overdosed" incantatory statements, which never translate into reality. I also wonder what measures you intend to take to combat the scourge of posted workers. France is very welcoming to them, with some 354151 employees posted in 2016, an increase of 23.8% compared to the previous year. Remember, they were just 26466 in 2005. All this, as you know, is done at the expense of the French employees. But it doesn't matter to you: you are prepared to allow international agreements to go even further between neighbouring countries. Definitely, you find it hard to learn from what is happening before your eyes. Similarly, after candidate Macron's announcements, we were entitled to expect a far-reaching reform of unemployment insurance; Unfortunately, it will not take place. Let us take the opening of unemployment rights for resignations. In the end, a lot of noise for nothing: the conditions required to benefit from it are such that, according to the impact study, they will only benefit 17000 to 30000. The same applies to the specific allowance for self-employed persons. Another aspect of the law is the fight against very short-term contracts. This is still a measure that falls far short of the original ambition. Too bad, especially since it is, as we know, public employers who now sign the largest number of short contracts. As for the reasonable offer of employment, whose criteria have been tightened by the Council of State, it will continue to allow virtually any job to be refused. Too bad again! In another area, I will defend an amendment under which any new online public communication service must be designed in such a way as to be natively accessible. It seems to me normal, indeed, that a person with a disability, in particular a visually impaired person, should have access to all information intended for the public, in the same way as any other person. Finally, let us be fair-playing: seeing you take the issue of equal pay for men and women – a fight that, of course, I share – is obviously positive. In conclusion, I would say of this bill that it is disappointing, but I want to believe that the upcoming debates can enrich it. I'm always optimistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u166	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u167	There are more non-registrants than registrants!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u168	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, committee chairs, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is in line with the legislation that the Government has previously submitted to us: a promising title; a statement of reasons which may, at least in appearance, only lead to approval; a perfectly oiled communication. But let us ignore these many tricks to interest us in the philosophy that guides your reform. Partly from the agreement reached on 22 February with the social partners, the reform of vocational training that you are proposing to us is in some way ahead of its time. In his frenzy of reforms, the President of the Republic seems to have forgotten the fundamental stages of the legislative process. Evaluations of the law of 8 August 2016, which provides for the consolidation of branches, are to be carried out next August. So why the rush? We do not legislate effectively in agitation. Our legal arsenal suffers from an endless juxtaposition of texts that complicate the matter and, often, undermine our fellow citizens. In vocational training as in other fields, the State must be strategic. But where does the role of public authorities really appear in your text? Vocational training is also intimately linked to spatial planning: the way it is understood will have a direct effect on the reorganization of our rural areas and on our necessary policy of reindustrialization – aspects that your text does not address. In addition to the part devoted to vocational training, there are specific provisions on unemployment insurance. In particular, in principle, you are calling for the extension of unemployment insurance to resigning employees as well as to self-employed workers, who are currently excluded from the scheme. The text also creates a specific allowance for self-employed workers, paid in the event of involuntary deprivation of employment. We can only welcome the laudable intention behind this provision. However, the current drafting of the text raises a problem: the bill sets a lump sum for this allowance, although the duration of its allocation is determined by decree. The direct consequence of this is the lack of consideration of several parameters such as previous earnings, the duration of the activity or the personal situation of the self-employed. We will propose that this lack be addressed. As with the "work" law, we see in this text your desire to make the employment contract ever more flexible. For our part, we remain staunch advocates of the indefinite contract and will particularly ensure that it is not called into question. Indeed, we repeat, the precarisation of our employees will not be of any use to our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u169	[[Smile]] He's got a nice voice...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u170	Another part of your text is the funding of the unemployment insurance plan. Most of it comes from contributions from employers and employees, but the Social Security Financing Act for 2018 provides for an exemption from employee contributions from next October, financed by tax. For our part, we believe that unemployment compensation must remain an insurance and equal system. Finally, your bill is organizing a new scoping of the negotiations on the unemployment insurance agreements. However, we are particularly committed to the principle of paritarianism, which has been undermined by the provisions you are planning. We shall therefore propose in the course of the debate that the arrangements be reoriented. Nor will we accept the avoidance of a fundamental aspect, which should be dealt with quickly: I naturally want to talk about the reform of trade unionism. In total, although it contains some interesting provisions, this bill does not keep the promise of its title as it stands. Despite the limited speaking time available to non-registrants, count on our determination to make the voices of the millions of employees, self-employed, apprentices and alternates for whom the professional future is often a concern of the present.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u171	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to you in this general debate. Before trying, with the rapporteurs, to convince you – but I do not doubt that I can – from this Tuesday morning onwards of the inaccuracy of several statements heard this afternoon and tonight, proof of a lack of information, I would like to go back to the state of mind behind this debate. In what I have heard from those who do not agree, at this stage, with the text, I have noted several points of astonishment, not to say several contradictions. I did not understand that the same talk about both a process of stateization and extreme liberalisation. Both seem a little incompatible to me... It is neither; But I see this as an interesting contradiction. Then you blame both the text for not being the Copernician revolution that I announced and for completely displacing the existing one. Thirdly, many agree on a rather severe assessment of the situation – a high degree of inequality in access to training, the inability of young people to project themselves in the future, and poor access to learning. And yet, most have proposed only the defense of the status quo.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u173	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u174	We will therefore have to discuss all this during the week. More fundamentally, two things have struck me and, for me, represent real societal debates. First, many have spoken of "commodification", allegedly Anglo-Saxon – which is quite interesting, since such individual rights do not exist at all in the United States or the United Kingdom; But let's move on to this semantic aspect. It's hard for me to understand. To say that it is up to the young man to decide his future, the choice of his profession, in what way is it about commodification?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u176	To say that it is up to the employee to decide, in addition to the training plan, the part of the training which concerns him directly, without necessarily being within his undertaking, or within the framework of the profession which he is exercising today, in what way is it not an individual right, in what way does this constitute a dependence on the market? I find it difficult to understand that you are fighting against individual rights and that, whenever they materialize, you are saying that the individual is ultimately alone in the face of the market – whereas today he does not have access to the decision. It is, however, emancipation when a person can determine himself/herself, within the framework of a mutualised, regulated, certified system, whose quality and costs are controlled – thus beyond the mere law of individual supply and demand. At the end of the ends, what matters is the person: she is the one who, protected by collective guarantees, has her choices to make and can take charge of her destiny. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this regard, allow me to convey to you my sentiment. I think there is a bit of condescending, even contempt, to think that our fellow citizens are not able to decide for themselves. I'm shocked by that. It's not my company project. Of course, you need advice, help, support, mutualization; This is our social model: we are not alone in the future and in society. But at some point, everyone has to be able to choose for himself. A modern, emancipatory society trusts the person, the human. This is what we propose in this text; I hope we'll all be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u177	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u178	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. First of all, Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u179	Section 1 is one of the major advances in the bill. By proposing the renovation of the personal training account, it opens a new page in the history of vocational training in our country and thus gives rise to new hope. Little used by employees since its entry into force in 2015, the CPF will tomorrow be a tool accessible to all, including through a dedicated application – in other words, a tool that will strengthen equal opportunities. The objective is clear: it is about creating a new society of skills to react to the various changes – economic, technological, environmental or even digital. To this end, it seems to me essential that every individual has access to training throughout his or her career. It is therefore logical that the ease of access to training is combined with ease of access to information, thanks to the vocational guidance which will be free for all and operational throughout the national territory. Another change: for the sake of readability and in order to enable the assets to know the training capital available to them, the CPF will be recorded in euros. And, for more social justice, it will be fed more for the least qualified, in other words the most vulnerable, in this case from 500 to 800 euros per year. Former regional vice-president and responsible for vocational training, I know that, for the most vulnerable, training is an indispensable stepping stone towards inclusion and integration into employment. I would also like to point out that the article takes these audiences into account and increases the means of accompanying them, whether they are young people with low qualifications in neighbourhoods covered by city policy or people in situations of illiteracy. Nor does he forget to address the issue of disability. Thus, a number of provisions favour occupational integration in an ordinary environment, as our rapporteur pointed out in substance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, the article offers an unprecedented freedom of approach and choice of training, without negating on what seems essential to me: accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u181	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u182	"For the freedom to choose your professional future": an extremely ambitious title, for an extremely essential subject at a time when a young person under 25 years of age in five is unemployed. Everyone here on all benches agrees, I believe, that learning can and must work. To do this, we need to reform it, because the failure rate is high – one in four apprentices abandons along the way. The Government shares this view and proposes a number of measures that are undeniably in the right direction. I am thinking in particular of simplifying the apprenticeship contract, rationalising the certification of training bodies, the mechanisms for equal pay – although their inclusion in this text does not seem appropriate – and the reaffirmation of the role of the chambers of commerce and industry, which are in the front line in this field – I note in passing a lack of consistency with the reduction in the budget allocated to them in the last finance law. Other provisions can only give rise to a certain reservation: Article 1, for example, with the monetization of the vocational training account which will transform training into one consumer good like another; But also the takeover by the State of the whole training policy in a new public institution where it will be the majority. As for funding for learning, the successive changes in the Government's feet are not to reassure us. After wanting to subject employers currently exempt from apprenticeship tax, backpaedaling! After wanting to set up a unique contribution, backpedaling! Finally, I would ask you to clarify the unemployment insurance scheme with the French. If you effectively extend the benefit to new audiences, such as resignations and self-employed people, the cost will be borne in part not by labour but by taxation and, therefore, national solidarity. Is unemployment insurance then becoming a social minimum? This is a major issue that you seem to be eluded and an amazing bet on the part of a Government that is putting all its credit on economic recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u183	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u184	Entered into force on 1 January 2015, the personal training account is open to any person in employment or in search of employment. It significantly promotes access to lifelong learning, strengthens the individual's autonomy and secures the career path. After some start-up difficulties, the CPF came to power in 2016 and 2017: as of 1 February 2018, 5368534 accounts were opened. However, the impact study tells us that less than half of the employees have a clear idea of what is involved, and that less than 30% know how. It was therefore necessary, in this bill, to promote its readability and to review its governance. The unit in hours, complex and unreadable, had to be reviewed. The monetization of the CPF provides beneficiaries with better access to the scheme and allows them to be responsible for their choices. We also welcome the fact that employees working part-time or more will enjoy the same rights as full-time employees. These part-time employees generally have a lower level of qualification and lower access to training. The increase in abundance for unskilled workers is also a central and necessary measure in our goal of building a society of skills. The amendments tabled by the MODEM Group on this article are aimed at securing the rights of job seekers, but also at strengthening those of disabled workers. We also want to fill gaps in a project that does not currently provide for a "review" of the annual amount of the personal training account and does not include skills assessments and procedures for validating the experience gained in training eligible for the transition CPF, which we have wanted to remedy. Finally, in order to encourage the investment of assets in their training, we propose that a tax incentive be created, in the form of a tax credit, when the beneficiary decides to abound its CPF itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u185	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u186	Article 1 deals with the monetization of the personal training account. Under the terms of this new system, the average cost of training will now be EUR 14.22 per hour, whereas it is on average EUR 30-40 today, with peaks of EUR 50 or more in some branches. The first problem is that the 5 million of our fellow citizens who have already opened a personal training account will lose after this conversion into euros. The second problem is that future beneficiaries, because of these levels of funding, will have to wait longer to be trained. For example, they will have to wait three years instead of one year. The third problem will arise for those who will not wish or will not be able to wait. They will have to participate more in the financing of their own training. For low-income people, the question of access to training will now arise. Our vocational training system will therefore help to strengthen social and occupational inequalities. Article 1 abolishes individual training leave, a scheme created in 1984. The CIF now represents 40,000 training leavers per year for an average of 700 hours of training. The beneficiaries are 44 per cent of employees and 35 per cent of workers. According to a study by the Observatoire des transitions professionnels, the success rate at the certification target is 93%. We therefore have a system which is known to employees, which mainly benefits low-skilled people and which offers an excellent balance sheet. However, the Government chose to delete it. We want to ask this legitimate question again: why remove a tool that works? The Government proposes to create a less well-funded transitional CPF. It is difficult to understand the reasons for such a reform. On the contrary, it seems to us that the Malthusian screening effects on ICF files should have been addressed. But, Madam Minister, you are making the opposite choice, which we can only regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u187	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u188	The personal training account is a tool for individual access to vocational training open to all employees over 16 years of age. Given the late hour, I will not go back to its terms. The same criticisms often come up: the way in which training is still difficult to access; a system of lists that is no longer understandable; an acquisition ceiling deemed too low; broken governance, giving little legibility and overall financial regulation. All these limits hinder the use of the device. Article 1 therefore transforms the CPF in depth, in order to free and facilitate access to the training offer. The fundamental objective is to create freedom of training for each asset, thanks to a personal training account that is easily accessible, funded, operational and open to quality training. That is why we are putting in place a single funding of the personal training account and individual training leave in a renovated personal training account. It will be mobilised by employees, jobseekers and self-employed persons. Thereafter, it will also be for public servants, in accordance with regulations. In addition, we introduce a monetization of the personal training account, accounting for the rights in euros to facilitate their readability and appropriation. The annual charge amount and cap will be higher for all assets with a CAP level. All the rules governing the operation of the CPF are simplified by Article 1: lists of eligible training courses are deleted; the management of the CPF is outsourced and centralized by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations which will conclude a three-year agreement with the State. We are building new governance for better and more efficient regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u189	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u190	In Title I, we deal with all matters relating to employee training with the creation in Article 1 of a monetised personal training account, which means that employees will no longer benefit from an hourly credit as was the case before, but from a training account credited in euros. You have foreseen an abundance of this personal training account of at least 500 euros per year with a ceiling of 5000 euros, making an exception for employees who have not reached the level of CAP-BEP, who would have a credit of 800 euros per year with a ceiling of 8000 euros. In doing so, you hope to ensure greater readability of the system and easier access to training, especially for employees in very small and medium-sized enterprises. If we have not proposed amendments to delete Article 1, we believe that the monetisation of the personal training account may result in a loss of entitlement for employees, the right varying according to the cost of training. Worse still, some occupations often require more expensive training that employees may not be able to take on. So you risk turning the training market into a consumer market, at the expense of the increase in skills that we all aspire to for the employees of our country. This personal training account also undermines the co-construction of training between the employer and the employee, who will tomorrow be completely free to choose their training according to the credit available to them. We are not opposed, Madam Minister, to the freedom of choice of employees and do not question their ability to make their own choices. We fully trust them and know that they are quite capable of taking on such choices. Nevertheless, we believe that the training provided must correspond to certain needs of the labour market. I ask the minister to be reassured on this point, which you will undoubtedly be able to do by reviewing the article. Two points have satisfied us. Madam Minister, in the Committee on Social Affairs, on the proposal of our colleagues Bernard Perrut, Paul Christophe and Gisèle Biémouret, you have accepted an increase in the personal training account for workers with disabilities, which we welcome. On the other hand, on the proposal of Gérard Cherpion, Véronique Louwagie and Bernard Perrut, you have also agreed to make the preparation of the theoretical test of the road code and the practical test of the heavy goods permit eligible for the right to the personal training account, which is a very good thing to preserve in the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, vocational training is very important, but we do not always know very well how it is used and we cannot analyse the effectiveness of the training provided. Is it necessary to monetize this training and take the risk of turning it into consumer goods? We don't think so. We will follow very rigorously the application of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u191	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u192	[[Smile]] I would like to take the opportunity of the discussion on Article 1 to ask our colleague Laurent Pietraszewski, as we will know tomorrow how many euros will be credited to our training account, at what cost it will change the training in macronian novlangue with which he delighted us again this evening in the rostrum, demonstrating the perfect consistency between the text of the ordinances reforming the Labour Code and this one. Madam Minister, you have used the same skillful language elements. You told us, in the previous debate, that those who opposed your text were those who thought that the employees were not able to defend their own interests in the company, even against their employer. In this text, once again, you tell those who oppose your bill that they believe that employees are not able to assert their own training interests. In fact, in both cases, that of the orders and that of the individualisation of the employee in the face of training, you deny their real situation in the company and the relations of power which can be expressed there, in the form of diverging interests. By individualizing everything, you say that you empower employees; In fact, you take responsibility for the employer and, in many ways, for society. Your dream world is one where everyone contributes to their personal success, refusing to see that everyone's chances are not the same. The organization of our world, on the contrary, is collective and based on a vision at the service of the general interest, in the long term, not as your logic of short-term employability. You claim to give employees more readability, from an hourly account to a monetized account. However, given the real cost of one hour of training, you are actually reducing the right to training for employees. That is why we will oppose Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u194	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u195	Article 1 recasts a recently implemented system which, in the unanimous view, is working well. Like Gilles Lurton, I'm afraid monetization is a trompe l'oeil. I am afraid that, contrary to the good intentions you have in the name of equal opportunities, employees actually have less rights. Monetization implies the creation of a digital application. However, we have recently experienced an application that has not worked, causing a disaster: for months, employees have not been able to access training. If we have reservations about the principle of monetization – we will return – this does not mean that we are not for a society of freedom, trust and emancipation; On the contrary! I would like, Madam Minister, in the discussions you to provide us with some assurance on testing and operating procedures, and more generally on how the operator who must implement this application will proceed. I would not like an industrial disaster to prevent employees, in a few months' time, from operating their accounts and gaining access to skills because your beautiful idea would not be ready to be put into service digitally.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u196	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u197	Clause 1 of this bill seeks to reform the CPF by monetizing it. The account is supposed to become a tool for direct and universal access to simplified training directories divided into skill blocks. In introducing this monetization, the Government does not take into account the reality of the terrain and the cost of training. In practice, the cheapest courses will be preferred, and the most expensive ones will be abandoned. As you have understood, the provisions of this Article 1 will result in many perverse and harmful effects: loss of rights for workers and job seekers, because rights with varying geometry depending on the cost of training; turning the training market into a consumer market at the expense of increasing skills; less accessible occupational agreements because of the abolition of individual training leave, replaced by the transitional CPF, which is less attractive. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Instead of making workers and jobseekers free to choose their training and thus their career paths, this article widens the gap in access to training. To overcome the inevitable risks of inequality, it is therefore imperative to eliminate monetization. That is why I invite you to vote for the excellent amendments made by my colleagues in the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u198	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-06-11-O1265.u199	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
