ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u2	We are dealing with the review of health appropriations (No 1302, Annex 38); No 1305, Volume I) and solidarity, integration and equal opportunities (No 1302, Annex 41; No 1305, Volume II).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u3	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u4	Mr President, I am basing myself on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure to point out to you that next Monday we will be looking at the amending finance bill, PLFR, and that the difficulties are increasing around this text, with an impact on our legislative work. Indeed, we only have the government text – and therefore can only amend it – since yesterday; I did so last night until 23:00, but this morning Eloi – the software that allows us to table amendments – no longer allows us to do so on the PLFR, even though it works for all the other texts. If we want to work on Monday, we must be able to amend the bill! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This incident is part of a more general framework, where the Government visibly wants to sabotage the review of the PLFR. The best evidence is that this text was not presented yesterday by the competent minister – Mr.Gérald Darmanin, Minister of Public Action and Accounts – but by a secretary of state. It's never been seen! I wanted to highlight this accumulation of difficulties in this chamber. This cannot be done by Parliament, by Members who want to amend the texts, that is to say, by working!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u5	Thank you, Mr. Le Fur, we take note of your remark. The amendments can be tabled until 17.00 on Saturday. We're going to take stock of the information systems. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Marc Le Fur's comments to highlight the real difficulty we have faced this week in terms of the agenda for the review of the PLF and the PLFR. At the moment, we are debating the PLF both in the sitting – this morning we are examining the appropriations of the Health Mission – and in the Finance Committee, where we are going to discuss the non-attached items. Yesterday, the Secretary of State introduced the PLFR to us, leaving us less than 24 hours between the time we were able to read the text and the deadline for tabling amendments. These deadlines are unacceptable because they do not allow serious work to be done on the text. Mr President, we need a real reflection on how we conduct our work. A PLFR is an important text; We cannot consider it in these circumstances, with just 24 hours to table the amendments in committee and three days to read, analyse the draft and table the amendments for Monday's sitting. Although the deadlines for tabling amendments in committee have been adjusted, they are still insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u7	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you this morning the budget for 2019 for the missions "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities" and "Health". I want to stress from the outset the political coherence of these two budgets with the Social Security Financing Bill that your House passed on first reading last week. They express the same choices: priority is given to the most fragile, in order to respond specifically to their expectations and to act on the factors of social determinism, and to the modest employees, so that work pays more. This social priority of the Government is first and foremost reflected in the evolution of the appropriations for each of these missions. Those of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission are increasing by almost 7%, with policies in this area benefiting in 2019 by an additional €1.3 billion. Those of the Health Mission were making 3.5 per cent progress, reflecting the Government's commitment to guarantee the fundamental right to health and to develop prevention. This budget is first of all that of increased solidarity for the benefit of our most modest citizens. First of all, I want to mention the strategy for preventing and combating poverty, presented on 13 September by the President of the Republic. The Government had built a plan that would be deployed in all territories, with the objectives of enhancing access to early childhood services, strengthening the human rights of children and strengthening employment through employment for young people and adults. The 304 programme is the main budget support of the strategy. It brings together the appropriations dedicated to contracting with the territories, which in 2019 amounted to 171 million euros; €135 million will be spent on contracting with the departments, with four objectives: supporting the children's welfare leavers; strengthening the support of beneficiaries of active solidarity income, the RSA; training of social workers; local social reception. The solidarity effort is also expressed and strongly through the evolution of the appropriations of programme 157 "Disability and dependency", increased to 11.9 billion euros, an increase of 5.1% compared to 2018. This very important increase reflects the priority given for the quinquennium to the construction of a more inclusive society and makes it possible to realize the commitment of the President of the Republic to the upgrading of the allowance for disabled adults, the AAH. This increase will increase the level of aid at a full rate to EUR 860 as of this month, representing an increase of EUR 41 per month. The allowance will then be increased to 900 euros per month at the end of 2019. Overall, this is an investment of more than €2.5 billion on the quinquennium, aimed at improving the situation of people with disabilities. Supported employment credits for these people will also increase by 40% compared to last year. The Government's commitment is fully within the framework of the inter-ministerial committee on disability held on 25 October, which mobilized all the ministries around Prime Minister Edouard Philippe and the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, Sophie Cluzel, to implement measures to simplify people's rights and to combat disruptions. The solidarity effort is in the third place benefiting our overseas compatriots, in two territories facing major social difficulties: Guyana and Mayotte. In accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic in October 2017, the State is taking over the financing of the RSA in these two communities from 1 January 2019, for an amount of 170 million euros. The aim is to relieve communities of the burden of funding and allocation of the AHR, without calling into question their expertise in the integration of beneficiaries. The State also assumes full responsibility for unaccompanied minors. Starting in 2019, support for departmental councils for sheltering and evaluating persons presenting themselves as minors will be reinforced by a fairer compensation of the expenses incurred, based on a package per evaluated young person. For the second year in a row, an exceptional device will be deployed in 2019. More broadly, the effort under the poverty reduction strategy and the management of unaccompanied minors reflects the Government's desire to work towards a new contract between the State and the departmental councils in the development of social policies. I will lead this policy alongside Jacqueline Gourault, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. I finally want to talk about state medical aid, the AME. As I have already had the opportunity to recall on several occasions, I am committed to the preservation of this aid, which represents both a humanitarian device, in line with our republican values, and a necessary health device in the interest of public health. The funds allocated to it – it is not unnecessary to state this again – are used to finance health benefits that are mainly provided by hospitals in our country; They therefore help to prevent health facilities from bearing the corresponding burden alone. At the same time, we remain very attentive to the conditions for the opening of rights: in 2019, the centralisation of the allocation of rights in three primary health insurance funds – Paris, Bobigny and Marseilles – will allow more homogeneous processing and better control of applications. The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" also reflects an unprecedented effort for the benefit of the modest employees of this country. The business bonus – an important service that supports purchasing power and encourages the resumption of activity – benefits 2.8 million of our citizens. During his campaign, the President made a commitment to revalue it by 80 euros for an employee at the SMIC by the end of the quinquennium. This increase will be in addition to the purchase power gain of EUR 20 per month as a result of the abolition of sickness and unemployment contributions, which have been fully effective since last month, resulting in a total gain of EUR 100 in the SMIC by 2022. The Government has decided to increase incentives for business resumption and to go fast and strong in 2019 and 2020 to raise the premium. Thus, the business premium at SMIC will increase by an additional 30 euros as of April 2019: several hundred thousand households will therefore benefit in a few months from a significant increase in purchasing power, greater and faster than foreseen by the law of public finance programming. It will again increase by 20 euros in April 2020, and by 20 euros in 2021, a total of 80 euros by 2021. The commitments of the President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, will therefore be fully fulfilled, and it is the honour of this Government and of this majority to respect the contract entered into with the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u10	I wanted to conclude by referring to two programmes with a strong cross-cutting dimension. This is primarily programme 137. As you know, equality between women and men has been established by the President of the Republic as a major national cause of the quinquennium. This commitment resulted in a set of measures announced on 25 November 2017, mobilizing the Government at the inter-ministerial committee on 8 March. Program 137 is one of the tools of this policy, which is based on a much larger set of appropriations; On the other hand, the implementation rate is up by more than 30 points and close to 100%, indicating increased efficiency in the conduct of actions. The second programme is programme 204, part of which is devoted to prevention. We discussed it a lot in committee. The appropriations for prevention under programme 204 amount to EUR 89 million; They are mainly intended for the allocation to the National Public Health Agency, ANSP, whose resources will increase by more than €2 million. But the essential thing is played elsewhere: in the transformation of practices, which includes and values prevention during the period of care, and in the evolution of the training of health professionals who, starting this year, will include a time dedicated to prevention with the creation of the health service for 47,000 health students. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is this in-depth change in our health care system that we are implementing as part of the "My Health 2022" project, which is also supported by this budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore, as you will have understood, a social budget with an exceptionally strong social and health ambition that I ask you to strongly support.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u11	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor. I would point out that all the Assembly's information systems are functioning again. I imagine that Mr. Le Fur was therefore able to table his amendments to the amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u12	[[Smile]] He's already gone to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u13	Yes! We're working hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mrs Special Rapporteur, Mrs and Mr Draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Mission brings together, as has just been pointed out. Minister, health expenditures that are not included in the social security budget. This mainly concerns two types of public policy, for a total amount of EUR 1.4 billion: on the one hand, prevention policy, the appropriations of which are included in programme 204; On the other hand, the policy of state medical aid, the AME, budgeted in programme 183, "Health protection". The expenditure of the "Health" mission is increasing by €47.7 million in 2019, but this trajectory is only supported by the dynamism of the AME's spending, which is increasing by more than €53 million, reaching €942.9 million in 2019. On the contrary, the health prevention policy has reduced its appropriations by EUR 5.5 million, with the allocation for 2019 amounting to EUR 480.6 million. We can only regret this development. With regard to state medical aid, there is a trend towards under-budgeting, which is confirmed by the updated forecast for 2018. While the forecasting of expenditure is complex, due to the particular characteristics of AME beneficiaries, the Government should exercise greater caution in the construction of assumptions of expenditure trends. The information provided in the budget documents could usefully be supplemented by reliable statistical data, as I had already pointed out last spring, so that Parliament could be better informed about the choices that are being made. I would like to highlight the lack of transparency in the total cost of health care for illegal foreigners. Indeed, AME's expenses cover only part of the cost of caring for these people through our health care system. To the €942.9 million planned for the AME in 2019, it is necessary to add the State's debt to health insurance due to the partial reimbursement of AME's expenses. This debt amounted to approximately EUR 50 million at the end of 2017 and will probably be doubled by the end of 2018. In addition, emergency care is only partially covered by the State through a flat-rate allocation, the difference, which amounted to some EUR 25 million in 2017, being borne by health insurance. In addition to this calculation, the cost of caring for people in an irregular situation in Mayotte, where the AME is not applicable, which I estimate to be around EUR 100 million. Finally, it would be necessary to take into account the cost of health insurance for asylum seekers whose application has been rejected, but who continue, for a period of 12 months, to benefit from the maintenance of their rights to universal health protection – PUMA – i.e. the general health insurance scheme. According to figures provided by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons, OFPRA, approximately 40,000 people were granted asylum applications in 2017, out of 100,000 applications. It is therefore almost 60000 people a year who continue to benefit from the health insurance scheme while in an irregular situation. I now turn to the health prevention policy, the budget of which is set out in programme 204 of this mission. The decrease in the appropriations for this programme, which I regret, is mainly due to the reduction of EUR 10.5 million in the overall amount allocated to litigation cases, which raises the question of the sincerity of the Government's commitment to maintain the care of the compensation scheme for the victims of the Dépakine, amounting to EUR 77.7 million. I regret, Madam Minister, that you did not address this issue during your intervention. I have great difficulty in believing in the sudden decrease in all the litigation compensations for the year 2019; It seems to me that the adjustment will take place at the expense of the Dépakine device. The Government's reluctance to take on its budgetary arbitrage is most certainly linked to the fear of the political symbolism of such a reduction in the budgeting of the Dépakine system, as well as the refusal to recognize the shortcomings of the system applied. I have indeed observed the difficulties encountered by the families of victims in obtaining effective compensation: the procedure is complex and it is necessary to compile files of about 800 pages; In fact, the assistance of a lawyer is essential, which implies significant financial costs. As a result, the number of claims is much lower than the estimated number, and the processing of these claims has fallen significantly behind as a result of undersized human resources. I am also concerned about the sustainability of this mechanism in relation to the amount of compensation to be awarded; A total of EUR 420 million is foreseen, which is very much if families do not have real access to the scheme, which is obviously not desirable, and very little if one draws on the latest estimates of the number of potential victims, i.e. between 16,000 and 30,000, which would amount to a maximum compensation of EUR 26250 per child. This amount is much lower than the amount withheld by the Orléans Court of Appeal on 20 November, which condemned Sanofi's laboratory to pay EUR 2 million to the victim's family and EUR 1 million to health insurance. I have therefore tabled an amendment calling on the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the sustainability for public finances of this compensation scheme and on its management since its entry into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u15	Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission reflects the Government's social ambition for the most vulnerable people. The financial bill for 2019 provides €21.13 billion for this mission, which is €1.7 billion more than last year and €3.3 billion more than in 2017. This is therefore a significant effort. This increase in appropriations reflects two important commitments made by the President of the Republic and by our majority: the exceptional revalorisation, on the one hand, of the activity premium and, on the other, of the allowance for adults with disabilities. The Government has made the activity premium a priority to support the remuneration and purchasing power of the most modest employees...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u17	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u18	... and to improve the attractiveness of labour income with a view to promoting the retention of employment and the resumption of activity. This premium has led to a lot of ink recently, particularly as a result of the 20 euro increase in the flat-rate base decided last year and the concomitant change in the taking into account of income from work. However, in full year, these two measures represent an effort of EUR 460 million. And this is only a first step since, as the Minister has just pointed out, section 82 of the 2019 Finance Bill provides for the creation of a new bonus. The minister announced last week that this bonus would be 30 euros as of June 2019, then 20 euros in 2020 and 2021, with the aim of achieving, in accordance with the commitments we made, a total increase of 100 euros for an employee paid at the SMIC, at the rate of 80 euros for an increase in the business premium and 20 euros for a reduction in social contributions. The draft finance law also provides for €10 billion for the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – whose monthly full rate increases from €819 to €860 from this month of November. The Government's commitment to raise the full AAH rate to 900 euros will be realized as of November 2019. This represents an expenditure of more than EUR 2 billion over the duration of the quinquennium in order to support people with disabilities and to continue our inclusion policy. The Government is also strengthening the support scheme for the employment of persons with disabilities, which is allocated €6.9 million. Its objective is to provide sustainable support to and in employment, combining medico-social support and support for occupational integration. As you will have understood, these two benefits are the mission's main expenditure items – but they are far from being the only financial commitments of the state for the inclusion of the most modest and fragile. The increase in the budget also reflects the Government's commitment to an inter-ministerial strategy to combat the precarious situation of children and young people through the inclusion of an additional €175 million under programme 304. These funds are dedicated, to the amount of 171 million euros, to the contracting with the territories in order to participate in the financing of the fight against the "dry" outings of social assistance for children, in liaison with the departments, as well as the installation of the route references and the social pricing at the canteen. I would like to highlight the State's efforts in favour of the departments, with regard to action for unaccompanied minors. The Minister mentioned this: the procedure for calculating the State's reimbursement of expenditure on assessment and shelter for minors has been redefined and the State has also decided to cover part of the expenditure on social assistance for children. The state allocation, which, I would remind you, was 16 million euros in 2017, will in 2019 amount to more than 140 million euros. Again, this is a significant effort. In the area of legal protection for adults, the effort is increasing. The estimated expenditure is EUR 668 million. We will have the opportunity to come back to this when we consider the amendments. It is important to note, however, that while the participation scale of the major protected persons has evolved, all those who have incomes below or equal to the AAH will remain exempt from participation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the appropriations for gender equality policy remain at EUR 29.87 million. I would like to commend the excellent rate of implementation of these appropriations in 2018, proof of the total investment in this area by the Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa and the Minister of Solidarity and Health, as well as the rest of the Government and the majority. As the change in the model of the program has raised concerns about the funding of associations, I have presented in my report a more precise distribution of appropriations. I invite you to refer to it. Associations that are network leaders do not have to worry about: their funding is assured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u19	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Mission, whose appropriations we are looking at today, has two programmes: the 183 programme, which concerns state medical aid, and the 204 programme, "Prevention, health security and care provision", which is of particular interest to me. I have chosen to focus my analysis on the issue of prevention in overseas countries. Of course, this analysis will not be exhaustive, given the interdepartmental nature of prevention and the complexity of ultramarine problems. However, I wanted to warn you about the health situation overseas, about the application of the national policy of prevention in our country and, above all, about the often underestimated consequences of the decisions taken blindly here in Paris, in total disconnection with the realities of the field. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about territories where life expectancy is several years lower than in Hexagon, where one third of deaths occur before sixty-five years and where maternal and infant mortality rates are much higher than in metropolitan France; I am talking about territories where chronic diseases are real public health problems, as well as tropical diseases and infectious diseases, including sexually transmitted infections, first and foremost the HIV epidemic – a human immunodeficiency virus – which is in the West Indies and Guyana of a gravity comparable to that observed in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. This very worrying general situation is due to a number of factors. The first factor is the economic and social context: precariousness, structural unemployment, illiteracy and high prevalence of all types of addictions. I've already said it in committee. The second factor is the great suffering of health systems, with an excessively low density of doctors and medical specialties absent from several territories. As a result, all over the world, the provision of care is excessively focused on hospitals, which are under-capacity and whose emergency services are saturated. There are also serious imbalances in the provision of care, which is very unevenly distributed across the territories; This is particularly true in the archipelagos and in the very large or difficult to reach territories, such as the West Guyana. I would add, but the minister knows, that this difficult situation for the care system can change at any time. The hazards – such as the hurricanes of last year, which ravaged Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy, or the fire of the CHU of Guadeloupe – are proof of this. This makes a difficult situation very quickly unbearable for both institutional staff and the sick. All these aspects have been known for a long time. In 2014, the Court of Auditors itself had denounced the shortcomings of the overseas prevention system. While it is to be welcomed that the various strategic documents adopted by successive governments have placed prevention as a public health priority, it must be noted that things have not really changed on the ground despite the efforts of the RHAs, which largely base their strategies on strengthening these actions and devote a significant part of the regional intervention funds allocated to them. The situation remains critical in many areas, because the means, given the vastness of the needs, are not sufficient, all the actors met and heard testify to this. Thus, it is crucial to strengthen the financial resources of the SROs, as some positions appear to be insufficiently staffed according to the needs, so that some of them find it very difficult to carry out the prevention policy they have defined. Regrettably, some measures taken by the Government over the past two years have had a devastating and direct effect on associative actions, and more generally on prevention. The first bad government decision was the removal of aided contracts, and I will not go back to that. All the uphills confirm this, this decision was a real stabbing for prevention. Stakeholders, for whom we had invested, had developed skills and built trust with vulnerable, marginalized populations that are often difficult to approach. These skills have been lost, and this loss has dramatic consequences on the ground. On the one hand, the Government promotes prevention; the other, therefore, it weakens support for the associative fabric. Second government decision that worries me: section 27 of the PLF, which we have just voted on – you spoke about it earlier, minister. This article provides for the recentralisation of the RSA system in Guyana and Mayotte. If, of course, this decision is not questionable, as it responds to a presidential commitment made in agreement with the communities, it is, in my view, likely to aggravate public health problems in the territory of Guyana. Indeed, the extension of the period of uninterrupted prior residence from five to fifteen years, allowing non-EU nationals to receive the RSA, is an extremely difficult, if not impossible, requirement. It will only lead, in Guyana, to the exclusion of foreigners from the RSA system, and thus to a worsening of the precariousness of foreigners, who could thus switch into risky practices – toxicology or prostitution – and thereby increase the risk of contamination. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] That is why I am asking you, Madam Minister, whether your ministry has taken proper account of these risks in the reform of the RSA in Guyana. If he has not, we risk seeing the consequences, in terms of public health, within a few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u21	I call Mr Brahim Hammouche, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, the appropriations for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission are increasing considerably, reaching EUR 21.11 billion, more than 7.5% compared with the appropriations approved in the initial finance law for 2018. I can only welcome this, especially since this increase is mainly due to the AAH's increase, the creation of a second bonus for the beneficiaries of the activity bonus – which will be increased by 30 euros as of 1 April 2019, the amount of the upgrading to 80 euros at SMIC level in 2021 – and the implementation of the inter-ministerial strategy to combat poverty. Beyond the strict examination of the appropriations allocated to the mission, I have chosen this year to take an interest, within the framework of the thematic part of my report, in a cross-cutting and crucial topic for our living together: the fight against abuse and the promotion of well-contracting. I am convinced that the responsibility of the State in the field of solidarity, integration and equal opportunities is not only organisational and budgetary: it also requires the development of a true culture of attention to others. Abuse is not only physical: it is also psychological, social, economic and institutional. This is a complex phenomenon, and sometimes the authors themselves are not aware of it. That is why it is necessary to understand him well in order to fight him. In this connection, I should like to welcome the establishment at the beginning of the year of the Committee on the Promotion of Procurement and the Fight against Abuse. In 2002, the Council of Europe published a report that sheds new light on the definition of abuse. It is defined as "any act or omission committed by a person or group which has the effect of seriously violating, whether intentionally or unintentionally, fundamental rights, civil liberties, bodily integrity, dignity or general well-being of a vulnerable person, including sexual relations or financial transactions to which he or she does not consent or cannot give valid consent, or which are deliberately intended to exploit it". I would add that we must not forget the psychic dimension of abuse, because what signs it is the abuse of power. Unlike violence, abuse involves three elements: a dissymmetry in the relationship, an addiction understood as a link between the perpetrator and the victim, and the existence of an abuse of power. The relationship between the victim and the perpetrator is central to this definition. This relationship has different faces: it can be a relationship of kinship, a relationship between a client and a professional, a neighbourhood relationship, a relationship between helper and helper, a relationship between a vulnerable person and a health or care professional, or a relationship between professionals, colleagues or the hierarchy. I would also like to address the institutional dimension of abuse, which I do not always think is sufficiently taken into account. The Ombudsman informed me of a wide range of cases of institutional abuse of dependent persons. Most referrals are related to non-respect of rights: the rights of the sick or fundamental human rights, such as the right to respect and dignity or the right to come and go, especially in EHPAD – accommodation for dependent elderly people. Finally, I would like to stress that the promotion of well-contracting is not primarily a matter of a quantitative, budgetary dimension: it depends first and foremost on the awareness, by the greatest number, of what is to be called the quality of the relationship. It is not so much a question of inventing a policy of well-contracting or of pretending to teach caregivers and caregivers benevolence – when they are already exhausted, even trapped, psychologically and physically – as well as of understanding, from a systemic point of view, how governance methods produce abuse. It is a question of establishing rescue beacons, of bringing meaning, by posing at every moment the human question, from conception to evaluation of public policies, and involving at every professional stage, users and citizens, for a real humanist approach; that is to put man – his dignity and fundamental freedoms – at the centre of our practices. It is, in other words, a matter of focusing our approaches on the person. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Finally, the promotion of well-contracting requires a change of cultural, massive and general view. This is a complex issue, which requires a paradigm shift. We need to redefine the lines, the markers, do a whole work of openness to build something else together: this is a societal issue, but also an ethical one; I would even say that it is an issue of human emancipation and relational development.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u23	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mrs Annie Vidal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the special rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, when presenting the national strategy for the prevention and fight against poverty, the President of the Republic said that it was necessary, not only to strengthen "a welfare state of assurance", given as an inheritance in the 20th century, but also to "build for the 21st century a welfare state of dignity and emancipation", with "a collective organization of fraternity, which ensures the dignity of everyone". The "Health" and "Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities" missions support this commitment. The "Health" mission, with a budget of €1.4 billion, is part of the overall health policy pursued by the Government, while aiming at the development of a policy of prevention, health security and the organisation of a care offer for our citizens in all territories. As part of the "My Health 2022" plan, it will involve all actors in order to reduce inequalities and consolidate a system of solidarity care. At the heart of programme 204, "Prevention, health security and care provision", there is the improvement of the general health status of the population, as well as the detection of pathologies and an important component of prevention and health education. Program 183, "Sickness Protection", primarily funds state medical assistance, but also compensates victims of asbestos. In 2019, it is 53 million euros more for the AME, whose appropriations are thus increased to 893 million, or almost two thirds of the mission, in order to take into account the increase in the number of beneficiaries and to give concrete expression to our desire for solidarity. At the same time, control and anti-fraud actions are being strengthened. The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" consists of four programmes. The 304 programme, on social inclusion and the protection of people, supports various actions with high stakes, such as the premia of activity and food aid, but also measures to promote social work and the protection of the most vulnerable among us. Programme 157, on disability and dependency, reflects the ambition to give the 12 million people affected by disability the opportunity to make their own choices of life, with easy access to rights and tailored mechanisms. The allowance for adults with disabilities continues to be increased to almost EUR 10 billion from the programme's appropriations. The number of beneficiaries is increasing. Equality between women and men, a major cause of the quinquennium, is the subject of programme 137, the credits of which remain the same as those of 2018. Each ministry also contributes to this policy, which aims to strengthen professional equality, reduce gender-based and sexual behaviour and ensure equality as an example. Finally, the conduct and support of health, social, sport, youth and associative life policies are the subject of programme 124, for an effective territorial decline. The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" represents a budget of almost 21 billion euros. It is above all the budgetary translation of our desire to organise national solidarity towards the most fragile and modest of us. As a reminder, I will recall a few figures that challenge us and that we will not lose sight of: 14 per cent of the population is in poverty; One in five children is a poor child; More than one third of families are single parents; 800,000 young people and 700000 beneficiaries of the RSA are unaccompanied towards employment; 900000 people are deprived of personal housing. These socially unacceptable figures justify focusing our action on those who are most in difficulty. In other words, we must make a society around solidarity by pursuing policies for equality between women and men, for the autonomy and inclusion of people with disabilities and, finally, for those who have less, and for whom we do more. The year 2019 will be marked by the implementation of the inter-ministerial strategy to combat poverty, with a budget of 171 million euros. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Through the budgets of these two missions, and in particular, for the medical aid of the State, the "Health" mission, and for the inter-ministerial strategy for the fight against poverty, the "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" mission, we have the ambition to remedy unacceptable situations, to deal with the causes and not only the effects, because we want to carry out actions that are long-term. Madam Minister, the Republic on the move is a strong supporter of the budgetary policy for these two missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u25	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the "Health" mission, and in particular to research on paediatric cancers, you have indicated in committee, Madam Minister, that it is not necessarily appropriate to transfer funds for basic research to targeted research. If this argument is understandable, I do not understand why you have not taken the decision to increase the funds for targeted research and basic research. Secondly, as far as state medical aid is concerned, the budget is still on the rise, with EUR 935 million planned for 2019. You recalled your attachment to the AME, and I listened to your arguments, but three questions arise. First, if we understand health risks, urgent care accounts for about 15% of AME's expenditures. Is it therefore forbidden to reflect on the scope of other expenditure? Secondly, countries such as Switzerland, Spain or Sweden have introduced a stamp duty. Why do you refuse any evolution on the subject? Do you think their doctors are more inhuman than French doctors? Finally, the strengthening of control will be limited to the centralisation of applications within three central bodies. Are you considering other measures? I come to the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", which presents the most human face of the Republic, symbol of social progress; It's a pride to have such a mission in the budget. Some aspects of this mission deserve special attention. First of all, emergency accommodation places are lacking for the homeless, despite the 14,000 additional places announced by the Government, and even more so from the end of March, when the places opened in winter by the Government due to the cold shut down gradually, leading thousands of families to the street, without any other solution. In May 2018, the Government issued a decree capping the daily rate for shelters and social reintegration centres, the CHRS, in violation of the principle of unconditional reception provided for by the Code of Social Action and Families. But President Macron had marked a radically different will by saying, in July 2017, that "the first battle is to house everyone with dignity," adding: "I don't want to have women and men on the streets by the end of the year. We are in November 2018 and nothing has been done. This decision should therefore be reconsidered and important budgets allocated to ensure that the presidential promise is fulfilled. On the other hand, of course, we are in favour of revaluing the activity premium. We noted the important announcement that the bonus for 2019 would be increased to 30 euros. But by increasing the rate of cumulation with labour income from 62% to 61%, the increase would be only 12 euros for an employee at the SMIC. Can you clarify this point, minister? We also ask ourselves many questions concerning unaccompanied minors – MNA. You consider that the Government is making an exceptional effort to accompany the departments; But the 141 million euros credited for 2019 represent barely 10% of the overall expenditure borne by the departments, which the Assembly of the French departments estimates to be 1.5 billion euros. This aid is under-budgeted and the state will have to pay more than expected. These funds are intended to cover both the evaluation costs and the costs of hosting the MNAs in child welfare. How are they distributed between these two items, and with what estimates of incoming flows? For 2018, the Government had planned 25,000 entrants, while there were twice as many! Above all, will the expenditure related to NMAs be integrated into the 1.2 per cent annual increase in departmental expenditure imposed by the financial pacts? If so, and you will agree, those contracts that are already controversial would become untenable. As far as equality between women and men is concerned, which is of particular interest to me, it is surprising that the budget devoted to it does not move from one euro after it has been declared a great cause of the quinquennium. Let us then confine ourselves to the absence of a reduction in appropriations, even if we cannot resolve some abandonments. With respect to associations, we heard the Minister's commitments to ensure that there was no actual decrease in funding for network heads. However, all of these funds are not reflected in the annual performance project, while at the same time the resources dedicated to departmental focal points engaged in accompaniment to women victims of violence also fall by EUR 0.8 million. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" deserves the efforts devoted to it. So let's go to the end of the process because it is, in the end, what will give meaning to our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u27	The next speaker is Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we can only welcome the fact that the two budgetary missions on health and solidarity are increasing their appropriations for 2019. Those of the Health Mission increased by 3.4%, while those of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission increased by almost 7%. Health and solidarity are the two pillars of our social policy and must be a priority of every moment at a time when France has nearly 9 million people in difficulty. With regard to the "Solidarity" mission, we welcome the substantial increase in appropriations, which translates into a number of commitments of the President of the Republic, by persevering and deepening measures of social and territorial justice, but also of equality, and laying the foundations for convergence of the social minimums from the top. This is reflected, in fact, in the increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – which will reach 900 euros in December 2019, in the creation of a second bonus for the beneficiaries of the activity premium, in the implementation of the national strategy to combat poverty and, finally, in the consolidation of the funding allocated to actions to promote equality between women and men. The MODEM and related groups welcome these changes and fully support their implementation so that they can benefit the country's most vulnerable populations as soon as possible. However, with this in mind, our group is wondering about the drafting of article 83 of the PLF, which aims to simplify complements to the AAH, the supplement of resources and the increase for self-sustaining life. In substance, this approach is commendable and necessary. On the form, we are concerned about its financial consequences at the end of the transitional period for the beneficiaries of the AHA who currently have additional resources. So, would it not be wise to think about a more elaborate system that would retain the same objectives while not harming anyone? We have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. With respect to the "Health" mission, the increase in funding is in line with the logic set out in the "My Health 2022" strategy. The aim will be to continue and improve the investment efforts necessary for the many changes in the health system. Our group will mobilize with you, Minister. With regard to the specific programmes of this mission, we regret the decrease in the resources allocated to programme 204 "Prevention, health security and provision of care". More specifically, while operating expenditure is increasing for this programme, intervention expenditure is decreasing and amputated by more than €20 million compared to the previous year. Another question has to do with the issue of youth prevention. Only 400,000 euros are dedicated to the health of the mother and the child, whereas it is on these publics that primary prevention actions must be targeted as a priority. While this figure is on the rise this year, we still find it insufficient to carry out a policy of sustainable prevention. You know our commitment to this essential issue and we know yours. In this connection, we will present two amendments: the first is to request a cross-cutting policy paper on prevention and the second is a budget yellow which will make it possible to know the actual efforts made by the State, local authorities and social security in favour of prevention. Dear colleagues, if I may say so, how can one want to treat prevention without having a thermometer? A similar amendment on a cross-cutting policy document was adopted unanimously by all the groups in the Committee on Social Affairs last week. In 2017, a report by the Court of Auditors on primary prevention recommended the drafting of such a document; This is also the case with the information report I drafted with Ericka Bareigts on health prevention policy for young people. You yourself, Minister, made the promise last year, reaffirmed in September by answering one of my oral questions. All the actors involved in prevention support you in this process. However, we remain convinced that primary prevention must be addressed as a whole. We have heard that you indicate that prevention is necessarily linked to care; However, it affects other actors that go beyond care, and concerns many other determinants such as physical activity, food, water we drink and the air we breathe. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Minister, the MODEM Group supports the Government's voluntary policy of solidarity and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u29	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u30	Madam Minister, rapporteur, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission for 2019, despite a posted increase of 6.8%, due mainly to the exceptional upgrading of two benefits, the activity premium and the AAH, are very disappointing in terms of the scope covered. They are even below the means necessary to achieve the ambitions set out in the poverty reduction strategy. Contrary to what the Government claims, there will be losers, because if you translate your language, "rationalization" means "reducing rights". Thus, the gains in the revalorisation of the activity premium, targeted towards persons closest to employability, that is between 0.5 and a SMIC, and passed to the filter of article 65 of the PLF and the decree of 3 October last, will be only 5 to 8 euros instead of the 20 announced. If we add the more than 3.7 million people affected by an AHR that will not be re-aligned, it is all the most modest workers and the poorest people who will not benefit from any help, even though they are suffering from the declines in purchasing power. The re-evaluation of the AAH is also subject to unjustifiable setbacks: with the lack of re-evaluation compared to the inflation forecast for 2019 and the de-indexing measures on inflation in 2020, you add the freezing of the couples' resource ceiling and the merger of the supplementary aid. However, taking into account the spouse's resources is a double penalty, both because it punishes the person with a disability and because it places him or her in a situation of dependency on his or her spouse, which hinders his or her emancipation. You have recently rejected our colleagues' bill on this subject, on the basis of the priority given to the mobilization of family resources. Only, the AAH is not a performance like any other. As regards supplementary aid, the merger of these aids results in the disappearance of the additional resources, which are intended for heavily disabled persons who cannot work, in favour of the increase for self-employment, the MVA, i.e. EUR 104.77 instead of EUR 179.31. Replace one with the other will cause a loss of 74 euros. However, the eligibility criteria for the MVA mean that a number of beneficiaries of the additional resources will not be eligible for this aid and will suffer a dry loss of EUR 179 per month. The injustice of this measure seems to plunge the majority into doubt. Mrs Stella Dupont, the Special Rapporteur, did not, moreover, express an unfavourable opinion on our amendment to delete Rule 83 when examining the text in committee. Yesterday, the Senate Finance Committee voted unanimously in favour of additional resources. It is therefore now an amendment from your ranks that supports it. We cannot accept a plan policy on social benefits for modest workers and recipients below the poverty line, a policy that you are obliged to put in place to compensate for your government's budgetary choices towards the most affluent. It should also be noted that in view of your first economic results, these budgetary choices are far from effective. At a time when Victor Hugo is restored to the taste of the day, let us remember that the Third Republic had proclaimed the debt of the nation to the poor! The Government's speech on social benefits now gives the impression that the poor have a debt to the nation. For these reasons, we will only be more vigilant about the modalities of the future universal income of activity. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] You will have understood that, in the eyes of the Socialist and Related Group, this budget is not up to the demands made, whether in the fight against poverty, support for people with disabilities or equality between women and men. It is pursuing an unfair and ineffective policy that we cannot endorse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u31	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the rapporteurs, today we are examining in open session the appropriations for the "Health" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" missions. The resources allocated to the "Health" mission increase slightly in the 2019 Finance Bill compared to the 2018 FLP, mainly due to the trend increase in spending on state medical aid. With regard to programme 204 "Prevention, health security and care provision", we welcome the near-maintenance of funding and the renewed commitment to prevention, although the slight decline in the rate of influenza vaccination for persons aged 65 and over indicates that more vigilance is needed in this regard. Most of the resources dedicated to prevention under the draft law on the financing of social security, we would like to recall our support for the strong measures undertaken last year in favour of tobacco control, or concerning the extension of the vaccination obligation and the extension of the child examinations up to 18 years planned in the PLFSS for 2019. We will support the amendment adopted in committee to improve Parliament's good information on all preventive policies. It is part of the shift towards a more preventive approach to our health system, which we call for. We are also wondering about the increase in the cost of state medical aid, provided for in programme 183 "Sickness protection", which will reach 934 million euros in 2019. Without going back to the scope of the acts taken over by the AME or the need to accompany the persons concerned, we are in favour of a policy of enhanced control of its use with a view to avoiding and penalising possible abuses. The real challenge is also the improvement of procedures for the removal of asylum-seekers to the border, who remain, for the vast majority of them, in the territory and whose only care is provided by the AME. I come to the appropriations of the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", which reflects the efforts of the public authorities to reduce poverty, combat inequalities and protect the most vulnerable. We welcome the increase in the appropriations for this mission, which is 6.8% higher than the finance law for 2018, bringing them to a total of 20.7 billion euros for 2019. Programme 304 "Social inclusion and protection of persons" implements the anti-poverty policy; its main expenditure is the activity premium. We regret the announcement effect of an increase in the business premium of 20 euros, whereas with the change in the calculation method applicable to labour income, the increase will in fact be only about 10 euros, and perhaps less if inflation is taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u33	More like 8 euros at the SMIC level!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u34	I come to Program 157, "Disability and Dependence", whose funding contributes substantially to the income support of persons with disabilities through the funding of the AHA. The appropriations allocated to the AHA represent 85% of the programme's expenditure, and we are very much in favour of measures to increase this allocation to 900 euros next year. This is an essential measure of justice and solidarity, consistent with the guidelines and recommendations of the Interministerial Committee on Disability of 25 October 2018, as well as with the opening of new civil rights for persons with disabilities. I am thinking in particular of the recognition of the inalienable right to vote or the possibility of marrying without the authorization of the guardianship judge. They are strong symbols for greater participation of these people in the life of the city. Finally, we welcome the fact that the appropriations for programme 137 "Equality between women and men" have been signed. This fight, which has been legitimately recognized as a major cause of the quinquennium, is essential in the fight against gender-based and sexual violence, as well as in advancing professional equality between men and women. On the particular subject of unaccompanied minors, the MNAs, we finally consider that it is up to the State to take over the responsibility for their care by entering into agreements with the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u36	On this day when the National Congress of the Assembly of the French Departments opens, I imagine that this subject will be widely discussed. We would like to be heard on this point, even though it should be noted that the appropriations for the support of the MNAs have increased very sharply – I think they have been multiplied tenfold. Our group therefore welcomes the review of the appropriations for these two missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u37	Mrs Caroline Fiat, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u38	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the funding of social security, today we are looking at the health and solidarity, integration and equal opportunities missions. With respect to the "Health" mission, you assure us, Minister, that your policy is focused on prevention. However, on average, funding for this sector is down 1.1% compared to 2018, whether in terms of the environment, food or chronic diseases. To justify these declines, you promise a paradigm shift, but we are still waiting for it. Package pricing, which is not yet in place, concerns only two pathologies. So you're weakening the building blocks of our prevention policy before you even build a new one. Another major concern with regard to medicine is the choice of opacity and laissez-faire. The context is particularly serious. In 2017, 530 drug shortages were reported, compared to 44 in 2008. This dramatic increase is very worrying. As explained in the information report on the shortage of drugs and vaccines presented in the Senate last September, these shortages are artificially created by pharmaceutical laboratories to increase prices. Yet, you continue to weaken our "drug constable", the National Drug Agency, by reducing its budget by 5%! With such a bleed, how can one hope to cope with large pharmaceutical groups when a medicine like Sofosbuvir, against hepatitis C, is sold 43000 euros for 12 weeks of treatment while its cost of production is around 100 euros? Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last month, the President of the Order of Pharmacists of Île-de-France was concerned about the shortage of BCG vaccine. "There is therefore a risk of a return of tuberculosis to disadvantaged environments," he noted in Le Parisien. In its political programme, La France insoumée calls for the creation of a public drug centre. What are you waiting for to make this proposal of common sense? Currently, 45,000 Parkinson's patients have no solution as a result of these stock failures. How many tragedies will it take for the state to assume its responsibilities and cease to rely on the blackmail of the pharmaceutical industries? Let's go back to the case of the victims of the Dépakine. When will Sanofi finally pay? Last year, the State committed €78 million; This year, it renews this financial commitment. However, on 25 October, you told us that the State would itself take action against those responsible for a full or partial reimbursement. How is it that the giants of the pharmaceutical industry remain unpunished when they commit mistakes of such gravity? To conclude on this health component of the PLF, the purge continues with a decrease of €5.5 million for the programme 204 "Prevention, health security and care provision". For the overseas countries, the consequences will be particularly painful, because the situation is already so, as the report for opinion, of which I welcome the quality, of Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe notes. These territories will lose 1.6 million euros in 2019, while they have already lost 3.5 million last year. Let's go to the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities"! You are announcing that the AAH will increase by 80 euros by 2020. We would be delighted to vote with you on this increase, if it were not powder in the eyes. Many associations have pointed to the tricks that make your statement false. Thus, the freezing of the resource ceiling for couples excludes about 100,000 people from the scheme, and, by merging two additional aids to the AAH, you cause thousands of disabled people to lose about 50 euros per month. This measure will also be neutralised by a lack of inflation recovery in 2019, and by a deindexation in 2020. In the long run, all persons with disabilities will lose. Unfortunately, these pass tricks don't stop there. So, at the same time as you claim to revalue the business premium, you freeze it, which means, with the effect of inflation, that the assets that benefit from it will lose. You are also reviewing the calculation method for collecting this activity bonus, a revision that excludes many people from the scheme. Finally, this improvement will not affect very poor workers who receive less than half of the SMIC. Finally, we note that many of the appropriations for this mission are being reduced. Even though equality between men and women has been declared "a great cause of the quinquennium", the budget of the programme "Equality between women and men" loses 500,000 euros if inflation is taken into account!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u39	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u40	Funding for women's rights information centres, family planning, food aid and social workers is declining significantly. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You also cut the budget for cultural and sports policy by 5%. In April, however, Communist MP Marie-George Buffet and MP Pierre-Alain Raphan of the La République en marche, co-rapporteurs of a mission on the reduction of assisted jobs in cultural and sports associations, described the disappearance of these jobs as a measure of extreme brutality. Some suburban mayors have even spoken of the largest social plan since the Second World War. As a result, you are carrying out an additional and unbearable blow that will have very severe repercussions, especially in the working-class neighbourhoods. That is why we cannot follow you in your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u41	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u42	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" has certainly been increasing by EUR 1.6 billion since last year, which may make it seem that the Government is suddenly moving towards the poorest populations, especially with what you are presenting as AAH or activity bonus awards, but that is not to mention your budgetary arrangements. Indeed, you have introduced new methods of calculation and new criteria that block the revalorisations that I have just mentioned for a number of people. This is the case, for example, for the revalorisation of the activity premium of 30 euros, which is, in fact, intended for only one category of population: workers in a household whose professional income is greater than 0.5 SMIC. As for the AAH, you have changed the eligibility criteria: even if one can underline its upgrading, some 100,000 people will be partially or totally excluded, among them the AAH beneficiaries living as a couple. The Government had decided to freeze the resource ceiling for couples, without having to pass the increase on to the ceiling. You have decided to merge the two supplementary benefits of the AAH, the supplement of resources and the MVA, the supplement for autonomous life, to the benefit of the MVA alone. In other words, you have aligned yourself with the lowest amount, that of the MVA, which is limited to 104 euros. In addition, the removal of the guarantee of resources penalizes people with irreversible disabilities by reducing their short-term standard of living. Minister, how do you recognize the right to promote "revaluations" that keep these benefits below the poverty line? We are talking about 1026 euros monthly, in what this reality describes more abruptly for the lives of the people concerned. The question arises a fortiori when the conclusions of the Institute of Public Policy fall like a cut-off to show that your fiscal policy, that of your government, has already reduced the purchasing power of almost 1 per cent of the most modest French, while the richest households have been taking over the setback for 18 months. I would therefore like to convey in this Chamber the great concerns of the associations which are opposed to these various measures. Minister, what answers will you give to the associative structures, which are really very mobilised against the measures you are announcing in this budget? The President of the Republic announced last October the launch of a national strategy to prevent and combat child and youth poverty. In this context, the increase in appropriations for unaccompanied minors is €9.2 million. This is in line with the change in reimbursement arrangements to departments and the projected increase in the number of MNAs. However, I would like to stress the decrease in funding for the heads of networks of associations working in the field of the protection of children, young people and vulnerable families. These associations are often the first interlocutors of the most fragile people. If these people are to be better targeted to help and accompany them, it will be more useful and effective to strengthen the means available to associations and social workers. It is the human link, the social accompaniment in everyday life, that you degrade by this budget. I would also like to ask you about the appropriations for programme 137 "Equality between women and men". The Government has announced, with great reinforcement of communication, that this would be the great national cause of the quinquennium. However, we see no less or less that the appropriations for this programme for 2019 are almost identical to those for 2018. I would now like to say a few words from the chibanis. After reducing the budget for the reintegration of former migrants in their country of origin by 9 million euros in 2018, you will reduce it again for 2019. In order to do this, you draw the argument from the rate of non-use of this aid: on the contrary, it should be made automatic. It would be just justice for these men who have worked their entire lives in France. [[Applause on several benches of the FI and SOC groups]] Finally, in general terms, what about the reduction of staff in your services and of State operators, particularly at the level of the regional health agencies, which are particularly affected? In these circumstances, you will understand that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and, within this group, the Communist Members of Parliament, cannot vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u43	Mr Paul-André Colombani, for the Libertés et territoires group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the special rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, I intend to inform you of the position of the Libertés et Territoires Group on the funds allocated to the "Health" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" missions for 2019. The appropriations of the programme "Prevention, health security and care provision" are falling slightly compared to 2018: they are set at less than €480 million in commitment authorisations for 2019, compared to more than €485 million in 2018, a decrease of more than €5.5 million. This decrease in resources will necessarily affect the ability of the health system to achieve its intended goals. I am concerned, for example, about the protection of the elderly. We are below expectations for immunization coverage for people aged 65 and over: the updated coverage rate for 2018 is 49.7 per cent, compared to the Government's target of 52 per cent a year ago. I would also point out that this rate was above 50 per cent in 2015. I therefore wonder about the possibility of reaching the 60% target by 2020. Indeed, I note a general decline in the means of prevention. I must admit, however, that this decrease was due to the significant amount of funding allocated to state medical aid under the "Sickness Protection" programme: it represents almost 935 million euros for 2019, compared to just over 923.7 million euros in 2018, or 11 million euros more for access to care for foreigners in an irregular situation. It is a global problem that must be addressed with ambition and humanity: no human being must be exposed to unnecessary suffering – that is the meaning of the oath that I made when I became a doctor. Leaving a fringe of the population without care also means allowing outbreaks of pathologies that endanger the health of the population as a whole to flourish. People are there: we have to treat them, because we are equal in the face of illness. If there is a problem, it arises upstream, and concerns the management of migratory flows and the control of entry into the territory. Refusing to treat people is not the right answer to these issues! The necessary resources must be put in place for public health. For this, I am not opposed to an increase in the tax burden, so as not to give the impression of stripping one another to clothe the other. With regard to the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission, I welcome the EUR 171 million budget allocated to the new inter-ministerial strategy to prevent and combat child and youth poverty. The same applies to the "Disability and Dependence" programme, which has a slightly higher budget – which we also welcome. On the other hand, I wonder about the budget for the "Equality between women and men" programme: it is strictly equal to last year's. Yet equality between women and men is the top priority of the quinquennium, and the current situation over the past year unfortunately reminds us that a great deal remains to be done. The number of actions under this programme has even decreased: the one devoted to the prevention and fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings seems to have disappeared in a wider action called "Public policies - Access to the law". I regret that there has been a blow to the programme "The conduct and support of health, social, sport, youth and associative life policies": there has been an almost homothetic decrease in the appropriations allocated to all of its actions. On the contrary, more resources should have been deployed to promote health policies in the territories. Even more serious: SRA appropriations are down by €4 million. I expected, on the contrary, an increase in their resources, in order to territorialize health policies – that is, to adapt them to the realities of the territories. The budget for staff implementing health social policies is down by almost 10%, or 21 million euros. Staff implementing city, housing and accommodation policies also lose credit. My general impression is that these missions focus on flagship measures to the detriment of traditional health and equality policy measures, which must be balanced in all territories. Instead of focusing on two or three major national problems, it would have been better to pursue a more ironic policy. Major problems must be faced, but not to the detriment of the daily health of those who, without being among the most vulnerable or the most highlighted by the media, remain modest. It is for them that this budget is not ambitious enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u45	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor on a first question from the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u46	Minister for Solidarity and Health, since the early 2000s, poverty has not been reduced. However, we have been used to it since the 1960s: it is therefore a historical break in our social history. This situation does not correspond to a massive impoverishment of the poorest, but to an increase in the number of people whose living conditions are degraded as a result of brutal events and who no longer have enough to live with dignity. Thus, despite a sharp increase in social spending, poverty remains and is even gaining ground. This is evidence of the ineffectiveness of the curative mechanisms put in place so far. The poverty plan presented to the French on 13 September 2018 provides for twenty-one measures aimed at emancipating our citizens by making progress towards equal opportunities. They are intended both for early childhood, for training and for the support of all towards employment. A EUR 8.5 billion investment in the quinquennium is planned for the poorest. In addition, this poverty reduction and prevention strategy takes into account the specific situations of the territories, which I want to talk about today. The proximity that will make it more efficient means that the communities will be responsible for the implementation of this plan. In this way, the State will define a framework for contracting with lead communities, which will focus on shared priorities. The draft finance law for 2019 includes an envelope of €135 million for the implementation of these territorial contracts. A EUR 200 million poverty reduction fund must be set up to support this contracting effort. I wonder, however, about the coordination of the twenty-one measures to be implemented at the national level and territorial contracts designed to be adapted to each community. My question is: How do you plan to ensure a uniform treatment of poverty at the national level while adapting the treatment of poverty to local problems? What will be the nature of the support that the State will provide to local authorities in dealing with this problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u47	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u48	Madam Member, you are asking me about the implementation of the plan to combat poverty at the territorial level. You are right: the strategy must be implemented as closely as possible to the public concerned, as close as possible to the territories. The task of the State is to organize the pilotage by the actors, whether associations or communities, at the regional level. Facilitators will be appointed from among them, associations or communities, to advance collective work on the different themes of the strategy. With regard to the measures falling within the competence of the departments, which are leaders in the field of social assistance, the strategy foresees an ambitious contract with the departmental councils. Contractualization work has already been initiated with the demonstrative territories of the strategy; the contract update will then be deployed with all departments, before the end of the first half of 2019. This contract is based on €135 million in appropriations, of which €50 million is dedicated to the Integration Policy Support Fund in 2019. It will reach at least €210 million by 2022. It covers a core of themes and actions in the areas of social assistance for children, integration, the fundamental rights of children and social work. One part is left to the initiative of the departments, which will be able to propose actions in line with the strategy's ambitions, for example in the area of prevention in the field of maternal and child protection; the State will then support these actions. Our strategy is the result of wide-ranging cooperation on the ground. Its implementation requires new governance, driven and driven by all actors, from the territories. The State is, of course, the guarantor of the strategic management of the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u49	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor on a second question from the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u50	Minister, I would like to ask you about the public policy to combat poverty. After a steady decline since the post-war period, the level of poverty in our country has stabilized around 14%. This stability leads us to question the effectiveness of public policies aimed at reducing poverty. It is relatively easy to define poverty; It is more difficult, on the other hand, to identify the multiple and often cumulative processes that lead to it. In order to act effectively against poverty, it is therefore necessary to act simultaneously on multiple levers and to mobilize various actors, which makes the overall development of an efficient social policy in the fight against poverty complex. The processes that lead to poverty also continue to evolve in the light of social change; In order to reverse the trend, there is therefore a need to adapt and improve public policies on an ongoing basis. I would therefore like to ask you about innovations in public policy to address the challenges of poverty. My question is first of all about the interactions between the actors of this policy: the state, departments and cities are indeed working together to combat poverty. What measures do you envisage to develop synergies between these different actors? Social minima are also particularly opaque, and perceived as stigmatizing by the beneficiaries. How can we make the payment of these social minima both more socially acceptable and more readable?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u51	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u52	Mr President, you asked me a number of questions. First of all, there is obviously a need for action to develop synergies between the various actors, state and local authorities. As I said, this strategy is the result of wide-ranging cooperation on the ground. It requires a new governance, led and led by all actors from the territories: it is in the territories that the fight must be conducted. It is therefore the task of the State to organise leadership by the actors, whether associations or communities, at the regional level. Two regional stakeholder conferences will have to be organised each year, the first from the end of 2018. For the measures falling within the competence of the departments, which are leaders in the field of social assistance, the strategy envisages – as I said – a contract with the departmental councils. We must then make the payment of social minimums more socially acceptable and more readable. As we know, non-use of rights undermines our social model in that it reflects a form of inability to realize the rights we create. The fight against the non-use of social and health rights and services is therefore a priority of the strategy: many measures give concrete expression to this priority, in particular the modernisation of the delivery of social benefits, by promoting the exchange of information between the actors, by making the procedures automatic and by promoting payment to the right. A few examples are the automatic renewal of complementary universal health insurance, the CMU-C, for RSA beneficiaries, the testing of zero non-recourse territories, with the mobilization of one-stop shops in social security funds, the generalization of data mining in the identification of potential beneficiaries who have not activated their rights. Finally, we are working on the single income of activity, to put an end to the current millefeuille of devices. The common feature of these measures is to empower Governments rather than potential beneficiaries, in order to ensure access to national solidarity for all poor or excluded people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u53	Mrs Geneviève Levy, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u54	I would like to emphasise the appropriations allocated to the allowance for disabled adults. While the increase is still good news for the beneficiaries, it is not fair for the Government to hide that it is in particular the result of a rebalancing of budget lines and that the efforts made are therefore not 500 million euros for 2019 and 2 billion euros on the quinquennium. This observation is not just that of the group. The Republicans: this is also and especially that of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities. Two examples illustrate this finding. First, Madam Minister, you are removing the legal revalorisation that is expected to take place on April 1, 2019: the loss of profits will be 90 euros, which should have been collected by the beneficiaries between May and November, before the traditional revalorisation of this last month. Then you choose to limit the legal revalorisation for 2020 to 0.3%, while the inflation forecasts of the DREES – direction of research, studies, evaluation and statistics – on which the AAH is in principle indexed, amount to 1.2%, which means that the beneficiaries will receive a revalorisation of 2.70 euros per month instead of 10.80 euros. This last measure suspends – at least temporarily – the protective provision introduced by the 2016 Finance Act aimed at securing the standard of living of the beneficiaries of the social minimums by setting a floor rate of 1% for annual adjustments. This choice is not trivial. As far as the loss of purchasing power is concerned, do you assume, Madam Minister, that the abolition of the additional resources to the benefit of the increase for autonomous life, under Article 83, entails as from 1 January 2019, for thousands of beneficiaries of the AAH who do not have business income, a loss of up to 179 euros per month?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u55	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u56	Madam Member, I thank you for highlighting, through your question, the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities to 900 euros, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. The first stage of this revalorisation, which brings the AAH amount to 860 euros, is committed this November, following the announcements of the Interministerial Committee on Disability. This re-evaluation is of an unprecedented magnitude, I would like to stress. By the second, which will take place in 2019, the Government will make a massive social investment to combat the poverty of people with disabilities, which is a double penalty for them. How can you be told that such an evolution could lead to a loss of purchasing power, whereas it will, on the contrary, lead to the equivalent of a thirteenth month for its beneficiaries? Indeed, between January 2018 and the end of 2019, the gain in purchasing power allowed by this double revalorisation will be tripled compared to what it would have been on the sole basis of the legal revalorisations. As for the merger of the additional resources to the AAH, which is scheduled to enter into force only in November 2019 – and not on 1 January as you say – the discussion of the amendments tabled in Article 83 will allow us to debate it widely. But we must also be very clear: this measure will not be a loser, since we have ensured that the rights of the current beneficiaries are strictly safeguarded. I would also point out that the merger was announced more than two years ago. It is therefore absolutely not a pass-through. This is a simplification measure, which will, in particular, eliminate the double assessment requested of beneficiaries and departmental houses of disabled people – the CDMH – i.e. the assessment of the permanent disability rate, which must be more than 80%, and the assessment of the working capacity rate, which must be less than 5%. You see, therefore, the deputy, that the Government fully preserves the purchasing power of these people and that it respects disability as a five-year priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u58	That's not what the CNDPH says!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u59	Except Mayotte!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u60	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u61	My question will be about the remuneration of medical-technical assistance facilities at home. These facilities help patients who require treatment using permanent equipment to enable them to leave the hospital by providing home support. They can therefore ensure, through the provision of such equipment, the follow-up of these patients in the context of medical devices. Through their services, these structures therefore contribute to the home maintenance of these people dependent on medical machinery – let's think of insulin pumps, continuous positive pressure devices needed in case of sleep apnea or medical beds. Most of these benefits are granted following medical prescriptions and are reimbursed by health insurance. Over the past ten years, however, the strategy for regulating repayments can be described as a price/volume strategy. But if in theory it allows for a reduction in costs, it has led to an increase in the amount of reimbursements made by health insurance, without a qualitative analysis demonstrating the proper use of these resources. In 2018, a paradigm shift took place, as the amount of reimbursements for home care facilities became degressive depending on the patient's compliance. This virtuous mechanism has allowed for better follow-up of patients, including those with sleep apnea syndrome, and better adherence to their treatment. This is therefore one of the keys to reducing costs for health insurance. Madam Minister, what are the Government's intentions regarding the sustainability and extension of this mechanism, which takes into account not only the quantity of acts carried out, but also and above all their quality?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u63	Member, the conditions for taking care of home medical devices, e.g. machines used in the case of sleep apnea or infusion equipment, are the subject of negotiations between the representatives of the industrial actors concerned, i.e. service providers and distributors of equipment, on the one hand, and the Economic Committee for Health Products – CEPS, on the other. In view of the significant dynamics of volumes, it is legitimate to consider its relevance and impact on health insurance. The general idea is simple: you have to pay for the right care at the right cost. However, the dynamics observed in the field of medical devices are between 5% and 6% each year, more than twice as high as that of ONDAM. If a development of medical devices makes sense with regard to the issues of home care that you mentioned, this rapid growth obviously warrants particular attention from the CEPS and the mobilization of relevant tools. You mentioned the price/volume agreements and the mechanisms recently put in place to enforce compliance. These are two important tools, but the object of which is very different: compliance is essential for the patient and for the effectiveness of the device, while price/volume regulation allows health insurance to benefit from the economies of scale that can be achieved when volumes are large. Far from opposing, they can be complementary, as shown in the case of continuous positive pressure ventilation, known as "CPC". During this negotiation, both mechanisms were put in place and agreement was reached with the providers, which shows that the financial conditions were balanced. It will be useful to assess the real impact on compliance with this agreement. There is no need to oppose relevance and tariff negotiation: all approaches make sense if they are adapted to the situation. That is why I will ask CEPS to seek, within the framework of solutions negotiated with industry and providers, everything that can enable health insurance to continue to finance medical devices by ensuring a sustainable dynamic of expenditure and a relevant use of such devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u64	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u65	My question concerns the care of unaccompanied minors. They represent, as you know, a very heavy burden for the departmental councils, a burden which far exceeds the compensation granted by the State, since it covers only 10% of the total – even if the effort made by the State to support the departments must be increased. Our work in the National Assembly Study Group on Foreign Isolated Minors highlights the lack of coordination among all actors involved in the care of unaccompanied minors. It is very easy to ask a question to a department, but it refers to another department, which refers to a third, and so on. This lack of coordination does not make it possible to have a comprehensive view of the problem of unaccompanied minors. Would it be appropriate for you to create an interdepartmental delegation on the subject, in order to have an interlocutor able to provide an answer to the questions that we are asking ourselves? Another subject really highlighted by all the hearings that we conduct within the study group: the much awaited decree on the famous file created by the law for controlled immigration, an effective right of asylum and successful integration, which raises many questions. Can you tell us when this decree will be published and what its content will be?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u67	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u68	Madam Member, you are asking me about the lack of coordination of public policies concerning unaccompanied minors. First of all, the Government is fully aware of the difficulties facing the territories, particularly the departments, as a result of the dynamic of increasing the number of unaccompanied minors. Their increased presence obviously creates tensions: on the one hand, between the departments, because of their disparities, and on the other hand, in the implementation of the child protection policy, whose departments are major players. The Prime Minister has therefore carried out a very sustained inter-ministerial work with my ministry, the ministries of justice and the interior, as well as with the Assembly of the French departments. The State's action to support the départements focuses on the following areas: combating illegal immigration channels; support to departmental councils for shelter and assessment of persons presenting themselves as minors, through the creation of a minority assessment support file and a fairer compensation for expenses incurred on the basis of a lump sum per young person assessed. The purpose of the file is to avoid an error that increases costs for departments and for the State. In addition, the State supports the departments by covering part of their additional expenditure on child welfare when persons are assessed as minors and therefore have to be covered under the ordinary law. For the second year in a row, an exceptional scheme will be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u69	I call the funds of the "Health" mission, listed in Statement B. Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1324.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u70	This amendment will not surprise the House, since it is a matter of calling, as we have been doing for many years, for the abolition of 95% of action 02 "State medical aid", preserving the 5% dedicated to urgent care. The AME is undoubtedly one of the "pumps aspirants" of immigration. It is the famous benchmarking that Mr Collomb, then Minister of the Interior, was talking about, which makes our country particularly attractive for illegal immigration. This budget is on the rise year by year, and again by 7% in 2019! As a reminder: the AME budget was €490 million in 2009. It's only 91% increase in ten years! And I fear, alas, that the situation is getting worse. It is clear that there is a desire to leave the taps completely open: anything that can contribute to immigration must be accompanied by the Government. Pensions and family allowances are unindexed, which is a real scandal given the level of inflation, but not, of course, the aid for asylum seekers, who are indexed. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] I recall that in 2017, in its study Les Français et la santé, Deloitte told us that 48% of our citizens gave up care. I come here to express the national priority that we owe in the name of solidarity to our compatriots. As such, I believe that this almost billion spent on the AME should obviously be reallocated to allow our compatriots to be properly treated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u71	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u72	The committee has not considered this amendment, but I will give you my view. AME corresponds to a need for public health. However, as I pointed out in my report, this policy is structurally under-budgeted: it was so in 2017, so that the state incurred a debt with respect to health insurance, and it is likely to be so in 2018. Like you, I think there is a link between AME and France's immigration policy. It must therefore be brought under control, and there must be an appropriate organisation of migration policy. Indeed, AME is only a consequence of it. Acting on the AME, as you wish, without acting on migration policy, has no sense or interest: this would increase the cost of urgent care, which is already partly borne by health insurance, with the flat-rate allocation of EUR 40 million in the programme 183 "Health protection" proving to be insufficient, since the cost of such care amounts to EUR 65 million. We cannot exempt ourselves from reviewing this migration policy and we must deal with different issues, whether it be immigration ceilings based on our reception capacity or on the question of the re-entry to the border of persons in an irregular situation. The group Les Républicains has included in the work programme of the evaluation and monitoring committee, for the 2018-2019 session, a survey on the evaluation of France's immigration policy in its economic and social components. This evaluation will be conducted by our colleagues Stéphanie Do and Pierre-Henri Dumont. The initial request was for four components – economic, social, financial and security – but the President of the National Assembly, for his part, had proposed only one of them, the economic component. I myself have asked for the social component to be added. This work will highlight the link between migration policy and variations in the number of recipients of state medical assistance: whether direct or indirect, it is still important, since migration policy rather affects the number of asylum applications or residence permits granted. This allows foreigners in an irregular situation on the territory to benefit from the AME. This policy can encourage – or not – the arrival on French territory of people who, ultimately, will not obtain a residence permit or refugee status, but will often remain in France irregularly and increase the number of AME beneficiaries when they need to take care of their health care. That is why I propose that you wait for the evaluation to be carried out by the evaluation and monitoring committee. Removing the funds allocated to the AME under common law today would lead to an increase in appropriations for urgent care, which is already under-budgeted. Therefore, I invite you to wait for this assessment: the report in question is expected to be tabled in 2018. As a personal matter, I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u73	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests among non-attached MPs]] Ms Le Pen, if you had been present during the examination of the PLFSS for 2019, you would know what we are doing about access to the care of the most modest French people. For example, we have provided for a merger of the CMU-C, the complementary universal health insurance, and the CBA, the support for the payment of a supplementary health care. This will benefit 3 million French people who today have little access to complementary health care. On the other hand, we have voted for the funding of the remainder of the zero charge, which will allow all the most modest French people to access glasses as well as dental care such as bridges or crowns, as well as audio-prosthetics, without any remaining charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u75	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u76	That is what we do for the health of the French! On the other hand, Mrs Le Pen, your amendment is extremely dangerous: I do not know of a single disease which, treated late, i.e. at the time when the patient is going to die, would cost less than if it had been treated early.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u77	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u78	Your amendment therefore goes exactly the opposite of what we want to do: try to control the expenditure of AME while providing good care to patients. If your amendment were adopted, it would obviously cost society and public hospitals infinitely more. Finally, with regard to all infectious diseases, Mrs Le Pen, it would mean that people who are potentially contagious are allowed to contaminate others in public space, because we would not treat them with antibiotics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] All this is absolutely contrary to good medical practice: the Government is therefore obviously against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u79	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u80	Mr Chenu has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u81	I'm making this reminder, Mr. President, for personal reasons. [[Applause among non-attached Members. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, you have questioned Ms.Le Pen: I would like to remind you that when you make your feet and hands to have your own husband appointed to the Council of State, you refrain from teaching parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u82	Mr Chenu, this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u83	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u84	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims among non-attached MPs]] We have just found, with this brief exchange, the trade fund of the National Front. But let's move on. I thank the Minister for her comments and add that the Socialist and Related Group strongly supports the continuation of the AME, because this measure is fair to its beneficiaries. In addition, it protects the rest of the population, as you have said very well, Madam Minister. We would also like to go further to include it in the social security budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u85	You have a sense of the hole!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u86	Beneficiaries are in precarious situations, linked to their living conditions, so that they often only have late access to care. Why merge it with the social security budget? This is primarily a prevention concern, as AME beneficiaries do not have a treating physician, and therefore do not have access to prevention policies and programs – such as cancer screening or vaccination. The adoption of Amendment No 1324 would increase the risk of chronic diseases, which are far more costly for social security. Including AME in the social security system would help to avoid the additional costs of deferred care and prevent it from being called into question, as we have just seen, in a way that I will not qualify.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u87	It wouldn't be better if you had your balance sheet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u88	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u89	Madam Special Rapporteur, you are asking us to wait for an umpteenth inquiry by a umpteenth committee. What will she teach us? Will she teach us more than you knew well when you were in power and that, precisely, you did nothing? [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] You are also part of a political formation that spends its life on television sets or on radio to explain that it is necessary to end the AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u90	You television sets don't succeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u91	And then it's unfortunate, but when we're here, you think we still have to wait to make good arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u92	Waiting for 2018?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u93	For our part, we do not want to wait any longer, precisely because there is an urgent need for one Frenchman in two who renounces care because he no longer has the means to do so. Madam Minister, you have expressed two counter-truths: it is rather little, in general, you are able to do better than that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u94	You're mad at me!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u95	You said that my amendment would have consequences for contagious diseases: that is not true, since these same diseases are treated as urgent care. This is therefore a major counter-truth. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In addition, you again talked about the rest of the charge zero, explaining that many people were going to enjoy it. You obviously failed to say that there was going to be a dramatic increase in the cost of mutual societies, of which, once again, pensioners will be the first victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u96	That's not true! What about the PLFSS?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u97	Is this bullshit on the infusion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u98	I don't know what they did to you, but the least you can say is that you never miss them! [["Socialist! » on the SOC benches]] As for our communist colleague... Forgive me, but it's kind of the same thing. As for our socialist colleague, therefore, I would like to say to him: Sir, do you know why the poor French are turning away from you? Because you forgot them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u99	Good thing you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u100	They would like you to show them as much empathy as you show, systematically, for those who are present in our territory in violation of the law of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u101	It honors me.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u102	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In order to hold our debates properly, I call on our colleagues to avoid saying that the minister is lying and making defamatory remarks about him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u104	On the basis of what article, this point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Such behaviour is not at the level of our institution. You've been out of the debate for weeks, and now you're coming to do your show! Our House is not the place for this kind of thing. I thank you for sticking to the content of the amendments you are defending.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u106	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u107	The foreigner is a very sensitive subject: I regret that it is often used for purposes that do not seem to me glorious. If, for some, the man comes after the foreigner, they may be more accessible to arguments that bring into consideration the economic and public health issues related to the AME. [[Protests among non-attached MPs]] We all regret the strategy of systematically opposing men to other men, women to other women, pensioners to the rest of the French population, or foreigners to the inhabitants of our country, whose culture has always included this strong value of welcoming.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u108	That's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u109	You can exclaim! Most of the groups that sit here, with the exception of some non-attached Members, deplore this strategy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] It seems to me important to recall, without grandiloquence, that our motto is: "Freedom, equality, fraternity. I would like fraternity to be a value that is not reserved for choices that you think are right, but that it is worth it for every man.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u110	As this is the first amendment on this subject, I will give the floor to one Member per group. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u111	No one will be surprised: of course we will not vote for this amendment. Indeed, in principle, the AME cares for human beings, because, foreign or French, they are many human beings, and everyone has the right to be cared for. I regret that when, during the review of the PLFSS, we fought on our benches to call for an increase in budgets, an end to medical deserts and an increase in the number of caregivers in health facilities, some non-registered Members were not present.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u112	Lessons givers!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u113	So they didn't support our fight for all the French to have the means to heal themselves. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] And then we've had enough of those lessons about foreigners that would cost our country dearly! Some have fled their country and risked their lives with their children. I don't see why we wouldn't save kids like parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u114	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u115	Minister, you know our frontal opposition to your policy. Communist MEPs will continue to denounce this liberal policy, which plunges an increasing number of French people, including pensioners and poor workers, into great difficulties. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] However, we believe that the statements made in our House against a provision which ensures republican equality and guarantees public health must lead to a massive rejection of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u116	You have a particular conception of equality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u117	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u118	Our group will of course not vote for this amendment, for the reasons mentioned by all of us. We must recall the republican values of France, as our colleague Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has done very well. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups]] In addition, Ms. Le Pen, in caring for these people within the framework of the AME, public health is also promoted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u119	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u120	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] If there is one lesson to be learned from recent years, it is that good feelings do not take the place of politics to solve the problems of our country, which faces an unprecedented wave of migration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u121	Please listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u122	The increase in the AME amounts to EUR 53 million; There is no such percentage increase in any State budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u123	And that's not to mention Mayotte!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u124	Indeed, dear Mansour Kamardine! You talk about everything you've done for the health of the French, but we realize that's not enough. The problem today, for many, is access to health care and medical desertification. With 53 million euros, we could do a lot for our fellow citizens, especially for the older ones. I would like to ask you two very specific questions, Madam Minister. First, you say that the AME pays for emergency expenses. If, as was the case at the outset, it could only deal with this type of expenditure, for example in the context of epidemics, and only respond to a humanitarian concern, it would be a good thing, but how do you explain that, among the expenses covered still include the costs of prenuptial examinations? Is it permissible for the French taxpayer to take charge of this type of act, for people in an irregular situation, who have violated the laws of our country? Can we not review the list of care provided by the AME and limit it to those that are truly urgent, in order, at the very least, to reduce its budget? Secondly, how can our compatriots understand that you are revaluing – by 1.6%, if I am not mistaken – the allowance for asylum seekers and migrants, while you are not doing so for pensioners and you are paying off certain medicines, especially for our seniors – I am thinking, for example, of those prescribed against Alzheimer's disease? How do you understand that you are increasing the AME's budget to offer a wide range of care to people who are illegally present in our country? These are real questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u125	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u126	[[Applause among non-attached Members. –Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] For our part, we want the AME to be replaced by aid that takes into account only emergency care. Today, she participates in the call for air which leads migrants to come mainly to France to benefit from social assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u127	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u128	Of course, the MODEM Group will not vote for this amendment. We regret this initiative, as the tone of the debate. We regret that the Republicans take advantage of the consideration of these amendments to make this kind of statement. Let us ignore humanitarian principles and public health issues: you tell us that foreigners are being treated at the expense of the French. In this regard, I would like to point out that the cost of the AME is 893 million, or 0.5% of the 200 billion national target for health insurance expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u129	But the French pay taxes! They are the ones who finance all this!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u130	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] Don't say that this aid is being given to the detriment of the health of the French! It accounts for only 0.5% of health insurance expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u131	All the groups wishing to do so were able to express themselves. The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u132	Mrs Le Pen, you mentioned a "nith" commission, when it is the committee for the evaluation and control of public policies, which is an internal body in the National Assembly. On the other hand – and since you have designated me with a hand gesture – since I joined the National Assembly in 2012, I have never changed my point of view on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u133	It wasn't very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u134	In substance, the AME does pose a problem to us. We can't let his budget fly away like this. As I said, we must deplore under-budgeting. On the other hand, we cannot disconnect the AME from migration policy, because the former is only one consequence of the latter. That is why we must have an overall vision, since we cannot act on a single lever. The Republicans have therefore requested this assessment, which will soon be made available.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u135	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1323.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u136	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I would like to say, first of all, that our discussion is of a political nature; There is no need to constantly teach moral lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u137	You're the one doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u138	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The unbridled increase in the state medical aid budget is simply staggering.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u139	Please listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u140	While it amounted to 75 million euros in 2000, it has grown steadily to reach nearly 935 million euros in 2019, a twelvefold increase since its creation, for the sake of the simple reason that the number of beneficiaries is increasing: they are now more than 300,000, or 100,000 more than ten years ago. Of course, it is not in any way a question of calling into question the existence of aid for people in a state of vital emergency on our soil, but it must be admitted that this budget is absolutely not under control. Our colleague Claude Goasguen had already pointed out in 2015 that actual spending is literally moving away from budgeted spending, with a difference of 32% over the period 2009-2015. The same is true this year, Madam Special Rapporteur, since this line has again been undervalued; An additional 11.6 million will be required, as foreseen in the Financial Amendment Bill that we will be considering on Monday. In fact, more and more health professionals report abuse. And because: in addition to AME card traffic, some patients have free access to treatments that cannot be described as urgent. It is a real air call for these people – in an irregular situation, I remind them – who multiply medical appointments, sometimes hoping to be regularized. The AME – originally humanitarian – is therefore contributing directly to the increase in irregular immigration. In fact, the lack of control of the files is staggering and shows the indulgence of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u141	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u142	In 2018, only 10 per cent of the cases were checked by the National Health Insurance Fund, despite the Government's commitment to strengthen controls.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u144	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] I therefore believe that it is time, not only to reduce the funds allocated to the AME, but also to control this scheme much more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u146	It is true that, since its inception, the cost of the AME has increased, as has been said, as well as the number of beneficiaries. As I indicated, this cost was still under-budgeted for 2017; Last year, the State had incurred a debt of EUR 50 million towards health insurance. We will probably experience the same situation in 2018. However, it is not desirable to reduce the appropriations allocated to this public policy, as this would only lead, as it is, to aggravate under-budgeting and to give rise to a State debt towards health insurance. There is a need for a comprehensive vision and action on migration policy. To answer your question about AME controls, there are now four types of controls: a first check at the opening of rights; a second, random, on 10% of files; a third on the consumption of the care of the beneficiaries of the AME; the last one, on report from the CPAM. I have noted in my report that only the latter procedure was subject to a report of information, which is not satisfactory. The 2018 change to the performance model is expected to result in additional elements, which we believe are desirable, starting with the 2018 Settlement Act. Transparency on all of these data needs to be improved. That is why I requested in my report that we be provided with additional information on this mission, as part of the next finance bill. As it stands, I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u148	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u149	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u150	This debate, Mrs Le Pen, illustrates everything that separates us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u151	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u152	[[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] It illustrates everything we do not want and everything we will fight against. As soon as you see the possibility, you are engulfing in a breach to oppose the poor between them, to train the French who feel left behind against foreigners entering France, who are in an even more miserable situation than theirs. You always have to go after more miserably than you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u153	The AME is an air call!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u154	[["1 billion! »among non-attached MPs]] [[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] That's not our logic. A cost of 893 million is nothing compared to the budget, the GDP of France.You come to look chicane about it. But where were you, for example, last week, when we had to fight on the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, which will discreetly rise to 40 billion euros? This is much more decisive for the nation's budget and the purchasing power of the French. We were a little alone, on the benches of the left, to lead the battle relative to the tax on fortune! You weren't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u155	Yes, we were here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u156	Please listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u157	You were not there to lead her with the necessary commitment. What will separate us is that we will not wage battles between the poor. We help the poor and want them to rise, to know where the shit that falls on them comes from. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this case, in the field of health, we can mention the dividends paid by Sanofi: €6 billion over a single year, which is equivalent to ten times the budget of state medical aid! This is what we could scratch, give back to the French so that they can live better and benefit from a better treatment of their health expenses, without having to seek more wretched than they do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u158	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u159	Could we stop constantly looking who was there to vote what? When you see the empty benches this morning, it's not an audible argument. The French watching us on television must make fun of us. Could we stop using this crappy argument? On the other hand, I would like to recall that a foreigner in an illegal situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u160	Irregular!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u161	No, it's illegal. A foreigner in an illegal situation, I said, who benefits from the AME costs, on average, nearly 3320 euros, compared to 2900 euros on average for a Frenchman. There is therefore reason to doubt that this money is only used to provide emergency care and prevent epidemics. In fact, many doctors denounce the logic of supermarkets which animates some patients, precisely maintained by the principle of freeness and the total absence of control. I remind you that it took until 2011 that the beneficiaries of the AME no longer have access to thermal cures! Could we stop joking with these numbers and facts, which are indisputable? The cost of this benefit is all the more disturbing because one in three Frenchmen – today, almost one in two Frenchmen – admits that they have given up care for lack of means, and that one in ten Frenchmen lives in a medical desert. It is difficult to understand the logic of the Government, and the French no longer understand it. Yet it is a policy that you assume. You say that the French are constantly opposed to foreigners...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u162	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u163	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] ... but you're going to be up to 0.3% – we're going to get it out to you on a regular basis, because pensioners and families need to hear about it – the upgrading of retirement pensions and family allowances, while you're increasing the asylum-seeker's allowance by 1.6%. Look for the mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u164	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u165	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 950 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u166	I would like to refer to a disease of which we speak little and which, however, concerns many of our fellow citizens: muscle and skeleton disorders – TMS. This disease particularly affects the working world, in the agri-food sector: repetitive work, in the cold – linked to the health requirements of meat work – and moisture leads to pains of the elbow, wrist, shoulders and back. You don't die of MSDs – maybe that's why you don't talk about it – but you suffer and stay broken. I am a witness to this in my constituency, where the rate of musculoskeletal disorders is four times higher than the national average, because of the many jobs in the agri-food industry. However, this sector is not the only one concerned, since MSDs also affect staff working in hospitals and EHPADs, in particular health-care workers and hospital workers, who are doing considerable work, in particular to lift their patients. Some of them are also broken by these muscle and skeleton disorders, which now affect almost 80% of all occupational diseases. Although they're on the rise, we're not talking about MSDs. I therefore hope that we will isolate EUR 15 million for these diseases. It does not seem illegitimate to extract these sums from state medical aid, which amounts to 1 billion, and to allocate them to those who work hard and are experiencing difficulties related to muscle and skeletal disorders. Without taking legal action against companies, whose investments allow for progress, let us invest in our turn. The subject of MSDs remains a considerable one for many of our fellow citizens, and it seems necessary to allocate 15 million to this beautiful issue, which deserves our full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u168	As the committee has not examined this amendment, I can only give an opinion in my own capacity. The "Health" mission consists of two programs – "Prevention, Health Security and Care Provision" and "Sickness Protection", which deals with state medical assistance, a non-pilotable and already under-budgeted credit, as I have had the opportunity to point out. Indeed, I regret that the funding for the "Prevention, Health Security and Care Delivery" programme, which fell by almost 40% between 2013 and 2017, continues to decline. We must combat the decline in funds allocated to prevention. Everyone agrees that it is important: there is still a need to identify resources, develop and decline a policy. Mr. The Fur referred to a very special situation, which concerns the prevention of musculoskeletal disorders, a pathology probably well known in Brittany, due to the mechanization of activities and, in particular, of chain work. To avoid such situations, many preventive measures must be taken, as has been done, in particular, in slaughterhouses. However, I find it awkward to transfer appropriations for state medical aid, which are under-budgeted, and therefore I cannot give a favourable opinion, even if the need for prevention is undeniable. I can only be in favour of it if the minister raises the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u169	Legally, this amendment will not give rise to a pledge. However, the Government could, if it so wished, amend it. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u170	I am against your amendment, Mr Le Fur, although I am very touched by your allusion to the suffering of certain professionals, particularly in the health and social environment where these disorders are a real problem. We have a number of work to improve the health of workers, including the report on health at work by Mrs Charlotte Lecocq, which is now the subject of consultation with the social partners. A scoping note will be sent to us by the end of the month, and recommendations to improve all occupational health devices will be published. In addition, within the framework of the agreement on objectives and management – COG – of the occupational diseases industry – AT-MP – we voted for a considerable increase in appropriations for prevention, from EUR 50 million to EUR 100 million. This is a typical measure of what you want, Mr Le Fur: the actions you refer to will be carried out within the framework of the COG, while your amendment did not use the right vector in the PLF. Finally, as part of our important dialogue on older age, we have worked on the quality of life of staff working in EHPAD. Proposals will be made to invest in tools to prevent these professionals from developing musculoskeletal disorders. All these reflections are under way. The budgets are there, within the AT-MP branch. I am therefore against your amendment, Mr Le Fur, not because the TMS are not a problem, but because the chosen vector is not the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u171	Madam Special Rapporteur, for the sake of clarity in our discussions, I would ask you to clarify your opinion, because it is not possible to deliver a favourable opinion on the revenue and to be unfavourable to the transfer of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u172	While regretting that the lifting of the pledge is not possible, I give an unfavorable opinion to Mr Le Fur's amendment, because I do not want to increase the under-budgeting of programme 183, which deals in particular with state medical aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u173	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u174	If we thank Mr Le Fur for talking about caregivers, who are particularly suffering from musculoskeletal disorders, we obviously do not agree with the transfer of credits from the AME, especially since some means have already been allocated. Thus, half of the EHPADs now have the famous rails, which prevent caregivers from hurting themselves by carrying patients. Generally, these rails are not used, because the staff, who are not large enough, prefers to go faster, even if they hurt themselves. It is not the addition of 15 million that will solve the really important problem of MSDs. That is why we will not vote for this amendment, even though we stress the importance of talking about MSDs in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u175	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u176	While thanking the speakers, I regret, Madam Minister, that you have raised only health and social issues. From a statistical point of view, however, MSDs in the workers' world represent a fundamental subject, even the most important one, and we do not talk about it anymore, we forget it. We must not be surprised by the surprising reactions of the workers, as they are victims of the many decisions that your government has taken, especially on transport – I will not come back – and the oblivion of the TMS. I see, however, Madam Minister, that you intend to return to this point, and I welcome it. When repetitive gestures are made, in the cold, in two-eight or three-eight, necessarily, the potential risk of TMS is much greater. It must be taken into account. Of course, health insurance works, but the state does not allocate any credit to combat these disorders. It is paradoxical that what constitutes the greatest occupational disease is completely forgotten, whereas we are talking more about burn-out, perhaps because it concerns a little higher categories. Forgetting the MSDs, we ignore a whole category of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u178	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u179	To say that the Government is not interested in the workers' world would reduce my remarks. By increasing from EUR 50 million to EUR 100 million under the COG for occupational accidents and diseases, we are doubling the budget allocated to prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u180	I was talking about a lack of state budgets!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u181	The prevention of diseases falls within the competence of a branch of social security. These appropriations must therefore be included not in the State budget but in the budget for the prevention of occupational diseases. In addition, within the industry, the budgets devoted to prevention, which we have doubled, are aimed at all workers, whether they belong to the working world, the agricultural world or the health and social sector. Of course, my remarks were not limited to staff in EHPAD. If we voted on your amendment, Mr. Le Fur, we would withdraw money from Program 183, which would be difficult, without knowing how to use that money, while the AT-MP GOC gives much more money to prevention. Doing prevention throughout the working world is the job of this fund. I therefore continue to believe that the lever chosen in this amendment is not the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u182	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 955.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u183	Medical visits are a major dysfunction of our health care system. Currently, drug professionals receive medical visitors, a variety of commercials officially responsible for informing health professionals to sell drugs and other products to them. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that these medical visitors are all the more biased because they are paid according to their results. A Senate report thus referred to a "source of information by nature biased." The independent journal Prescrire observed that 74% of medical visitors are silent about adverse effects of health products. Contraindications and drug interactions are only mentioned when the physician asks the question, i.e. in only three-quarters of the cases. You can imagine the consequences of such a system: over-consumption of medicines and health scandal. In 2016, the Health Watch Institute and the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products observed that France is one of the most consumer countries in Europe, just behind Greece. In addition to unwarranted colossal spending, this has a deplorable health impact, as some bacteria develop increased resistance. With regard to antidepressants, industrial propaganda has worked particularly well. In its 2015 report, the Health Insurance Fund noted that they were too often prescribed for no reason. Under these conditions, misleading advertising for medicines is unbearable. Regulatory bodies have absolutely no means of effectively controlling it. The charters put in place do not seem to have the desired effect. We therefore propose, in accordance with the latest report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – on the subject, to terminate the medical visitor system and to establish an independent information body on the medicine. To this end, we call for the transfer of EUR 10 million from Action 11 of the "Prevention, health safety and care" programme to a new "Pharmaceutical Information" programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u185	This amendment, which the committee was unable to examine, aims to create a €10 million "Medical Information" programme. The aim is to eliminate medical visitors and to create a drug information body, which would benefit from EUR 10 million, i.e. to transform the current profession of medical visitors, which is similar to that of a commercial, into an informational profession, designed to answer any questions that might be asked. Medical advertising to professionals and the general public, I would point out, is the subject of a legal framework. Subject to prior authorisation by the ANSM, it may only cover certain medicinal products, in strictly defined terms. It is therefore not appropriate to delete the authorised advertising for the medicinal products concerned. In addition, this amendment is similar to an appeal amendment, since it joins a similar proposal made in committee, which referred to the tabling of an "amendment of hope". It would have a greater place in a bill related to this issue, as it does not specifically address the purpose of the "Sickness Protection" program, including state medical assistance. To act by changing the appropriations for this programme in order to follow such a course does not seem appropriate to me. As I said, although a similar amendment has been tabled, the committee has not considered this amendment. Personally, I express an unfavorable opinion, while acknowledging that this amendment raises a very relevant question, which will deserve to be dealt with in another context.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u187	Mrs Fiat, you wish, as I understand it, to prohibit the medical examination, because of the potential drifts to which it leads. You're right, you have to be very careful about the impact of medical visits. Legislation has been considerably strengthened in this area through the adoption of successive laws. In the framework of the PLFSS for 2018, we have even planned to supervise the medical examination for medical devices, which did not previously exist. Transferring EUR 10 million from an existing programme to a new programme on medical information, as you are proposing through your amendment, Mrs Fiat, would reduce funding for prevention. This is not a good way to proceed. We are not in favour of this financial transfer. We are in favour of strengthening the regulation of medical examination. When I was chairing the High Health Authority, I was responsible for drafting a new version of the medical inspection charter for pharmaceutical companies, which must be certified in relation to this charge. At that time, we considerably strengthened the rules governing the medical examination, particularly with medical students and hospital services. I am in favour of a strategy to strengthen the supervision of the medical examination, but against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u188	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u189	Madam Special Rapporteur, you have perfectly summed up the spirit behind the amendment: to replace advertising with information.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u190	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u191	This means replacing people who are directly paid by pharmaceutical laboratories with officials who are responsible for identifying innovations in the field of the medicine and the limits and contraindications, in the most objective and neutral way possible. That's what doctors don't have access to right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u192	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u193	I have no doubt that medical visitors are very competent and I do not dispute their expertise. But it's the pharmaceutical industry that pays them! Moreover, these personnel could easily retrain themselves in the new profession we call for. On the other hand, our amendment is not unrelated to the budget. The activity of medical visitors has consequences on the prescriptions, which in turn have on the reimbursements of medicines, thus on the social security budget. The amendment has its full place in the examination of a budget mission. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Finally, like Marc Le Fur earlier, and like ourselves on other occasions, when it comes to the allocation of funds, we are trapped. Do we really intend to reduce the budget allocated to prevention? Absolutely not. We are committed to prevention and even want to increase the budget much more. However, in order to bring forward amendments of appeal, or even hope, on topics that we really believe in, we are doomed to take the money somewhere. We do not want to reduce the budget for prevention in any way. The rule of the game is that we do this.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u194	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u195	Clearly, Mr. Ruffin, you are not familiar with the medical examination charter, which is quite understandable. Pharmaceutical laboratories do not have the right to advertise medicines to doctors. They must adhere to certified scientific information, under the supervision of the High Health Authority and the certification bodies. The rules in force are very strict. Furthermore, in line with the recommendations of a report by associations of patients on this subject, the State is preparing to open a health information website, which will allow every citizen to have public information about medicines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u196	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 957.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u197	What do we come here to ask? The full transparency of studies and clinical trials conducted by pharmaceutical laboratories, so that their results are published, posted, and not only transmitted to health authorities. I will mention two recent health scandals. The placing on the market of a new formula for Levothyrox, in March 2017, made hundreds of thousands of women sick, who suffered from migraines and lost their hair, to the point of wondering what was happening in their bodies. All of this should be a sufficient warning to make us wonder what happened at Merck so that such a product could be placed on the market! What studies have been carried out? What symptoms have appeared in this context? On this point, transparency must be complete. As for the Dépakine scandal, mentioned earlier in the rostrum by the Special Rapporteur, Sanofi has known for decades that this medicine carries risks of malformation and autism in children. Below the legal obligation which we are calling for, there is a moral obligation in this case to transmit all the data enabling health authorities and citizens to make conscious choices. Essentially, power is on the side of the pharmaceutical industry, which is both a judge and a party. Indeed, it is in its best interest to provide health authorities with data demonstrating that the drugs are rather beneficial. The conclusions of these crises must be drawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u199	Your amendment, Mr Ruffin, aims to create a €10 million "Transparency Research" programme. Without ignoring your concern, I would remind you that we have discussed this issue in the Committee on Finance. Therapeutic and clinical trials are already very much regulated by the legal framework in force, which was established by the Huriet-Sérusclat Act adopted in 1988. In this context, the National Medicines Safety Agency – ANSM – monitors several characteristics very closely, such as the place where the tests are carried out and their modalities, before issuing a marketing authorisation if it considers that the benefit/risk ratio of the product is satisfactory. In addition, it pursues its monitoring mission at the end of this first stage and may decide at any time to withdraw a product from the market. The current procedure has demonstrated its effectiveness and relevance. It does not seem necessary to create a new budgetary programme to strengthen it and finance missions similar to those already carried out by ANSM. In addition, your amendment provides for a reduction of EUR 10 million in the appropriations for the programme 204 "Prevention, health security and provision of care". Of course, when it comes to the allocation of appropriations, we are always embarrassed, or even trapped, to take up a term that you have used. However, the 204 program has already experienced a relatively significant decrease in its appropriations – which I regret – in the order of 40% from 2013 to 2017. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u201	With regard to the safety of clinical trials, French law is probably one of the most stringent in the world. Established by the Huriet-Sérsusclat law on the protection of people in biomedical research, it has been strengthened in the context of the health crises that we have experienced. She's very rigorous. Its compliance is ensured by the mission entrusted to ANSM, which is precisely to verify the sincerity of the data, the way the research is carried out and the possible adverse effects of the products. The side effects you mentioned are likely to occur in the life of a drug. They are the subject of so-called "real life research", which the State will fund, inter alia, on the basis of the health insurance databases. The duration of clinical trials may be too short and very rare side effects may occur very long after the medicinal products have been placed on the market. It is therefore necessary for public authorities to invest in research. We do so in the context of real-life research. Moreover, France is very well placed to do so. The actions you propose to undertake are already fully implemented by ANSM. The rules governing clinical research are common to all industrialized countries. Clinical trials are systematically published on a common website, allowing every citizen to know how medical research is carried out and according to which criteria. In no case shall a supplementary body be required. The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u202	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u203	Madam Minister, I am speaking in this Chamber without pretension to know everything about the health system, of which I am not a professional.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u204	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u205	However, a crisis of the order of Levothyrox should, I believe, be the subject of an analysis from which we could draw conclusions in order to make the necessary improvements. You can't just say, "It's good, it's good! " Some transformations may be useful to future victims of other formula changes and other drugs that will be placed on the market. Minister, are you sure that Sanofi's studies on Dépakine for decades have indeed been passed on to the health authorities? Do you have the guarantee? Are you sure? Is Sanofi's conviction possible – and under what obligations – for failing to publish certain studies on the Dépakin? That's what this is about. We are told that all this is already provided for by law. Maybe this one has rules. However, I see the gap between the texts and the reality. On the subject of medical visitors, you told me that there is already a ban on advertising medicines to doctors. However, according to a survey conducted by Prescrire, 72% of physicians say they are not informed about contraindications of drugs. It's at least a lie out of omission! [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] There is a gap between law and reality. As far as transparency is concerned, I am not at all convinced that Sanofi has transmitted all the clinical trials of Dépakin to the health authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u206	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 960.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u207	It comes from the same spirit as the previous one. I'll leave the Levothyrox crisis again. First of all, the introduction of a new formula of the medicine on the market has caused massive physiological problems. It should then be noted the rejection of the words of the victims, who have hypothesized that the loss of their hair could be caused by this medication. They were told that it was a nocebo effect and that a little pedagogy was needed, because they would not have understood everything! What should be – in our view – at the heart of the health system and of a health democracy is relegated to the periphery, marginalized and even ostracized by the denial of the words of the victims. It was therefore by judicial process that a recognition of the effects of the new Levothyrox formula took place. At first, the victims were told: "You are mistaken, you are exaggerating; it is a nocebo effect; everything will be in order" – I would like to make the exact quotations available to everyone. Our amendment aims to give the use of medicines a central place, by creating genuine transparency on the choices of the pharmaceutical industry. Users should be given access to all available data, including the composition of medicines. In the case of Levothyrox, the complainants were opposed to the law on business secrecy. A genuine transparency programme is needed in order to give users logs and enable them to guide themselves in the field of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u209	The amendment is based on the same spirit as the previous one. Mr Ruffin, you are proposing the creation of a €10 million "Transparency Health" programme. In introducing this appeal amendment, you have addressed several issues. I will answer you at the heart of the amendment on transparency in health policy, which – I fully agree with you on this point – is absolutely necessary, indispensable and de jure. All French people must benefit from it. Efforts have been made to that end. Since 2017, the Public Health Transparency database has made available all the information reported by pharmaceutical companies, as well as their relationship of interest with health sector actors. The minister was referring to this earlier. Of course, the operation of this information gathering platform could be improved – everything is always perfect! However, I do not think that a specific budgetary programme is necessary for the implementation of measures pursuing the objective of transparency in this area, without denying that it is useful to think about improvements. Moreover, I do not think it appropriate to open up to associations access to all the data in the system: transparency must be linked to the protection of personal data. The Finance Committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u211	Member, I suggest withdrawal. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. But I would like to explain the reasons for this opinion. I understand your concern about industry methods and your request for transparency in testing. But the law passed after the Mediator case forced manufacturers to declare all donations made to healthcare professionals. This information is available on www.transparence.sante.gouv.fr, accessible to all. In addition, the website dpi.sante.gouv.fr allows everyone to consult the declarations of interest of the actors concerned. A healthcare professional who would be guilty of false declaration is liable to a fine of 35,000 euros, and to criminal penalties. The rules are therefore very strict. In addition, the ministry has opened a site, sante.fr, which will make it possible to make transparency on all side effects. Finally, Mr. Ruffin, you are mixing two questions that have nothing to do with the problem of Levothyrox on the one hand, the problem of clinical trials and transparency on the other. The first is a change of formula: if they only change an adjuvant, manufacturers are not required to repeat all clinical trials, which would be extremely expensive and would, in particular, prevent us from having low-cost generic drugs. Only a bioequivalence study is required, which is not at all the same as a very large scale clinical trial. This is the case in all the industrialized countries, including ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u212	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u213	We may then have to draw conclusions from this case and change the rules in the event of an adjuvant change! The consequences are not zero for hundreds of thousands of people. I'm not a specialist, I say it again, I can't say exactly what's wrong even if I sometimes have little ideas. But there's something wrong! This amendment goes beyond the question of links and conflicts of interest. In particular, it calls for transparency on the price: how can a medicine be sold 29000 euros while its cost price does not exceed 100 euros?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u214	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 1035.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u215	In the face of medical desertification, scandalously long appointments, shortages of specialists and more generally all inequalities in access to health, the incentives of recent years have all failed. Rural communities are the most affected, but the peripheries of large cities are not spared: this is what our colleagues Alexandre Freschi and Philippe Vigier showed in their report last July. On the other hand, they show that the regulatory measures for facilities – which apply to pharmacists, midwives, nurses and massage therapists – are very effective. During the examination of the PLFSS, Mr.Véran had only one argument to oppose the agreement: no area in France would have too many doctors. That's not true! There are over-denses, as reflected in the December 2017 report of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. Freedom of establishment is a form of corporatist ingratitude towards the community: the state finances the studies of doctors and then social security guarantees their income through the agreement. However, some young doctors criticize this situation; Here and there, itinerant medicine initiatives are emerging to overcome the shortcomings of the present system. It is in this spirit that we wish to create a new programme entitled "Territorial Health Equality". It would fight against medical deserts by deploying a corps of medical officials to our territory; This would be a new opportunity for medical students who wish to make their profession a real public service. I would like to take this opportunity to testify to my parliamentary visit to Cuba two months ago. During the Cuban revolution, there were only 6286 doctors on the island, 3,000 of whom left for the United States. Thanks to the establishment of a free university curriculum and a body of medical officials, the country is now one of the best equipped in the world, with about one doctor per 150 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u216	It's true that Cuba is an excellent model!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u217	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u218	The World Health Organization believes that this country benefits from one of the best health systems in the world, don't you mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u219	You're really pulling the stick to get beat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u220	This is an unprecedented fact for a country called the Third World. What are we waiting for? This amendment is an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u222	The committee has not considered this amendment by which you propose the creation of a EUR 10 million Territorial Health Equality Programme. The fight against medical deserts is a major subject, which we have already mentioned this morning; It is at the heart of our concerns. You're talking about land overdenses; In my view, the territories in which there are glaring gaps are now far more numerous. You wish to deploy a new corps of medical officers to our territory. I am not sure that this new status is a sufficient solution or even a relevant solution; In the immediate future, she doesn't seem practicable to me. Doctors often prefer to work as employees, in hospital centres or in other structures; There is little chance that a staff member could be born in fragile territories. This raises the more general question of the attractiveness of many territories, particularly rural ones. Several measures to combat these medical deserts have been included by the Government in the PLFSS; further measures will be presented later. Local authorities are also addressing these problems, for example by creating infrastructure such as health homes. As for the reference to Cuba, whose health outcomes are real, I am not sure that the comparison is appropriate. Our administrative organizations are very different. I am therefore personally against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u224	We discussed the transformation of the health care system very widely during the discussion of the PLFSS. It is in this text, in the health insurance budget, that measures must be taken to reorganise the provision of care. What is the responsibility of the State and what is the responsibility of health insurance should not be confused. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u225	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1117 and 1223, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 1117.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u226	This amendment tends to give more emphasis to primary prevention and health education, especially for younger people. To this end, it provides for the creation of a new programme, in particular to encourage the deployment, through sustainable funding, of the health education path – PES – throughout the country. The two inequalities of destiny must be addressed: education and health. The "prevention priority: staying healthy throughout life" plan, presented in March 2018, provided for additional funding for the health education pathway, an indispensable stage of health promotion, from about 34 million euros for the years 2018 to 2022. The aim of this amendment is therefore to go in your direction by allowing you to amplify the effort devoted to the SEP. In committee, you said, Madam Minister, that prevention could be entrusted to caregivers and was part of the social security budget. This is true for secondary and tertiary prevention; But the scope of primary prevention, i.e. health education and health promotion, is much broader: it embraces health, but also sport, food, and beyond, all the individual and collective determinants – the air we breathe, the water we drink... The sooner we act, the better. I spoke in committee about the child's first thousand days. There is also a need to promote health from the very small classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u227	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 1223.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u228	I will simply add to what my colleague has said. The 204 "Prevention, Health Security and Care Provision" programme deals exclusively – contrary to what its title suggests – with some specific preventive actions, including influenza vaccination for people aged 65 and over, organized colorectal cancer screening for people aged fifty to seventy-four years; It also observes the prevalence of daily smoking among the population aged 15 to 75 years. The aim of this amendment is to increase the financial effort devoted to health education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u230	These two amendments were not considered by the committee. You stress the need to step up preventive measures for young people. One can only agree: in the area of health, action must be taken as soon as possible. I had, in fact, last year, during the examination of the same mission "Health", devoted part of my report to this issue, from the perspective of the prevention of obesity. We must be very vigilant. If, therefore, the idea of strengthening prevention can only gain general agreement, I am a little embarrassed. Mr Isaac-Sibille, you propose to draw these EUR 10 million from the budget devoted to state medical aid, already under-budgeted. Mr Aviragnet, you take them from the budget already allocated for prevention; Here again, let us be vigilant: these appropriations have already fallen considerably. Indeed, operators consume a significant part of the credits from this programme. The agencies have taken their part in the policy of controlling public expenditure, which is an excellent thing; But when the decline in appropriations reaches such proportions, we have the right to ask ourselves – like the Court of Auditors – whether the budgetary constraint will not ultimately hinder the fulfilment of the crucial tasks entrusted to these agencies. I therefore find it difficult to reduce the appropriations for state medical aid, such as those for prevention. That is why, on a personal basis, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u232	Mr Isaac-Sibille, we have the same passion for prevention, shared, I am sure, by many Members in this House. I would like to reassure you that we have significantly increased prevention budgets this year and last year. The majority of these are in the PLFSS, and are mainly managed by the CNAM. Programme 204 brings together only a small part of these appropriations, about EUR 89 million. But the National Fund for Prevention, Education and Health Information – FNPEIS – managed by CNAM, saw its budget increase by 20% compared to the previous period. It is now 379 million euros. Last year, the Tobacco Control Fund, with €30 million, received €100 million this year. The budget of the regional intervention fund, managed by the SROs, was increased by 3.3%, one point more than the ONDAM. Fifteen per cent of the IRF budget is devoted to prevention, which amounts to EUR 515 million. The appropriations for the occupational accidents and diseases sector dedicated to prevention have increased from EUR 50 million to EUR 100 million. The sums we are talking about today in the PLFSS have absolutely nothing to do with this programme, so there is no need to propose new budget transfers. School prevention will be strengthened: the Ministry of National Education manages the health education program, and we are working on the child health program for children aged 0-6, for which MP Stéphanie Rist is writing a report, which will help us improve the health of children in this age group. As part of the health service, 47,000 health students will be deployed three months each year across the country, which will improve health education in all places of life. We are making a considerable effort for prevention and I suggest that you withdraw your amendment, Mr Isaac-Sibille; Otherwise, I would express an opinion that was unfavourable to its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u233	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u234	I take advantage of this exchange of views on these two amendments, which could be regarded as appeal amendments, since they are forced by the budget model, which is not necessarily understandable to everyone. However, such a budget can leverage primary prevention operations at the territorial level, particularly under local health contracts. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the fact that these contracts are still too small at the national level, and to the difficulties faced by local authorities, both communal and metropolitan, in order to ensure that local health contracts mark the territory with primary prevention operations for all audiences, from the youngest to the oldest. In many cases, the leverage effect of a budget like the one we are talking about today can be decisive for the sustainability of these actions on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u235	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u236	We know the effort made for prevention: my amendment focused on primary prevention for young people and on the educational path of health, which I believe is paramount. The sooner prevention is achieved, the better. I know that you are working on it, I have heard your answer and I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u237	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1026.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u238	Minister, this is an appeal amendment. During the examination of the credits of the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility", the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, assured me that, within the framework of the national plan for the prevention and control of sargasses, INSERM and Public Health France would conduct health surveys aimed at assessing the health risks associated with the gaseous fumes of decomposing algae. As I explain in the summary presentation, the concentration of gases released by the decomposition of sargasses is a serious problem; the prolonged exposure to these gases is another, just as important. However, some residents have been breathing permanently for more than six years hydrogen sulfide and ammonia that are released from rotting sargasses on our coasts. Martinique and Guadeloupe are tropical territories swept away by trade winds, so that these pestilential smells and their effects are felt to the inland. The Minister of State welcomed the fact that the stranded algae were collected in 48 hours, but the reality is quite different, as the gear cannot reach the entire coast. Through this amendment, I want to make sure that city medicine is not the only available health care for both Martinique and Guadeloupeans with health problems caused by these gases. For vulnerable people, pregnant women, babies, the elderly and those with respiratory or cardiovascular diseases, gases are harmful, as recognized by the High Council for Public Health. There is therefore a need for complementary hospital monitoring of city medicine, which is clearly identified by the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u240	Mrs Manin, the committee has not considered this amendment, in which you propose to fund a study to measure the impact of the decomposition of sargasse algae in the West Indies, for a total budget of EUR 200000. As you said in a very precise and concise way, it is important to improve our information, which is now insufficient, particularly on the health impact of these algae on the Caribbean population. I regret that you wish to finance this study by means of a levy on the 183 "Health Protection" programme rather than on the 204 "Prevention, Health Security and Care Provision" programme. In view of the weakness of the transfer, since EUR 200000 is a modest cost for the necessary action, I personally express my opinion in favour of the adoption of this amendment. Indeed, it is very important to have a study on this subject, although, as I recall, the committee has not examined this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u242	Mrs Manin, you are right to use this moment to remind us of the problem of sargasses in the French Antilles. This problem, linked to global warming, greatly embarrasses the people who live on these islands. The Government quickly seized this issue of sargasse: together with Nicolas Hulot, Annick Girardin and Frédérique Vidal, we developed an action plan to help the population, aimed at better collecting algae, better understanding of health effects, better preparing the population and informing health professionals. This plan, adopted by the Government and published on 12 October 2018, has 10 million euros. It therefore seems to me that your amendment is largely satisfactory: I ask you to withdraw it and, failing that, I would express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u243	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u244	Minister, the people of the West Indies, Guyana and Martinique are still under the shock of chlordecone. When we first heard about chlordecone, we were far from imagining its disastrous health consequences for our territories. Even though I have heard that a €10 million plan has been drawn up, it is important that you assure us that this medical study on the consequences of the emission of these toxic gases is actually being carried out. These gases poison the coastline, as you have seen on the spot, Madam Minister. We are sometimes forced to move the inhabitants of the coast to avoid these emanations. This study must begin very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u245	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u246	The minister assures us that €10 million has been allocated to an action plan. It is not a caprice of territory: you have come, Madam Minister, with the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, and the President of the Republic, and you have seen the suffering of the people, especially those living along the coast, because of chlordecone in Martinique and sargasses in Guadeloupe. The purchase of equipment has been financed, but they cannot go everywhere, so that some people are constantly intoxicated by these gases. I take note of this amount of EUR 10 million and I want to trust you, Madam Minister, and Mr de Rugy: I did not intend to withdraw my amendment, but I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u247	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 977.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u248	In a report, an analyst at Goldman Sachs asked: "Is patient healing a sustainable business model? " He explained that cured people stopped being customers of the pharmaceutical industry, which was not good for her. We propose to regain sovereignty over the production of medicines in our country. Indeed, we are dealing with an industry, which is no longer one, because it has moved from an industrial project to a purely financial one. Profit rates are considerable: 29% for AstraZeneca, 27% for Sanofi, 34% for Merck; the rate of return on investment has become delusional. This madness is reflected in Montpellier at the Sanofi site where a building, the DI 50, is destroyed, even before any substance has been produced there. The pharmaceutical industry no longer fulfils its role, as evidenced by the stock failure of a large number of medicines, with 537 molecules involved, including the one used against Parkinson's disease. It no longer fulfils its role when the World Health Organization asks it to produce anti-infectives and refuses it for budgetary reasons, while the number of deaths resulting from the lack of antibiotic production is estimated at 700000. The pharmaceutical industry highlights budgetary reasons, while it can bring a return on investment of 34% to shareholders and deliver billions of euros to them. We therefore have proof that this industry no longer fulfils its role in our country. Anti-infectious people are demanding long investments, which cannot be profitable in the short term. We want public authorities to find a way to produce drugs. This is obviously an appeal amendment, since a budget line with only 1 euro is foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u250	This amendment proposes to create a new programme, entitled "Pharmaceutical Sovereignty", to which 1 euro is allocated. It is simply a matter of socialising the pharmaceutical industry, biomedical research and the production of medicines. While I understand and share your concern about the growing health scandals and the growing shortage of medicines, I believe that the role of the public authorities is to contribute to the sustainability of a stable economic environment for those who are experts in the creation of medicines, in particular by regulating laboratories. The aim is to ensure the safety and sustainability of the consumption of these health products. This task of medical research and the production of medicines cannot be carried out by the State, which is not the primary role and which does not have the necessary expertise in this field. These industries and research activities must be supported without being the operator. The committee has rejected this amendment, and I am sending an opinion against its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u252	Mr Ruffin, your amendment is aimed at creating pharmaceutical sovereignty similar to a form of nationalisation of the industrialization of medicines. The government would replace the competitive sector to manufacture medicines. The legal framework already provides that the State may intervene when there are public health issues or unmet needs; For example, if a vaccine was needed to combat a major pandemic, government and hospital pharmacies could do so. Your request comes from a good feeling, but the manufacture of medicines is a profession: it is very complicated and very expensive. If the state were, as you propose, to resume the manufacture of all the medicines, it would not be able to develop new ones. The research needed to develop a medicine that obtains a marketing authorisation costs around EUR 1 billion. In addition, only 10 per cent of developed drugs receive such authorization. It's a trade that the state doesn't know how to do. I understand your concern about sovereignty. In particular, we work on this when we require industry to develop risk management plans in the event of a supply disruption. The current regulations already allow us to cover the needs that would not be. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u253	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u254	I come back to the previous amendment, in which, Madam rapporteur, we are talking about reducing not the budget for state medical aid, but for prevention. It seemed important to me to recall that such a measure has never been in the plans of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u255	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u256	I invite Mr Ruffin to a historic reading of his amendment. Some countries have in the past chosen to nationalize their pharmaceutical industry, others have done so recently. I urge him to compare the level of public health, and in particular life expectancy, in these countries with ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u257	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u258	We remain modest: by proposing a transfer of 1 euro, we do not aim to socialise the entire pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u259	Not only do you nationalize, but you don't even afford it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u260	On the other hand, we observe numerous flaws – I have quoted the anti-infectives; the 536 reports of stock failure; These pharmacies, which estimate that 150 medicines are no longer available; people who cut their medication in half to make the treatment last. This is happening in our country, not in a country that would have chosen the integral socialization of the pharmaceutical production tool! Madam Special Rapporteur, you stress the need to ensure a stable environment for researchers. That is all I want, but today it is the financial environment that is responsible for instability by triggering permanent tsunamis. For example, at Sanofi, one third of research positions were abolished under pressure from finance. While the public authorities are doing their utmost to support the pharmaceutical industry, notably through the research tax credit, it abolishes research positions, which mechanically results in a decrease in the number of medicines produced. I am not in favour of the full socialization of the pharmaceutical industry, but, in the face of the major flaws I have mentioned, I consider it incumbent on the public authority to regain its role and fill the gaps, which are in fact bliss, of the private industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u261	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Rule 81. On Amendment No 1326, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u262	State medical aid will cost almost EUR 1 billion this year. This amount, which is constantly increasing, covers all the care provided to illegal immigrants. The aim of this amendment is to put an end to this system, while at the same time maintaining the reimbursement, for illegal immigrants, of urgent care, i.e. life-threatening care. It represents a saving of almost EUR 1 billion per year for the disease branch without putting anyone in danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u264	This amendment has not been considered by the committee. I do not repeat my argument on Amendment No 1324. Personally, I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u266	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u267	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u268	The National Assembly does not exist in the debate. You can blame me for the content of my amendments, judge them excessive, but many issues have been discussed – the Dépakine, the Levothyrox, the pharmaceutical industry – and we are participating in the debate. The National Rally arises in the debate only to shake the flag of the clandestines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u269	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u270	Yes, it is. It's the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u271	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u272	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You do not participate in the debate, you intervene on this subject alone. I find it distressing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u273	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1326.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u274	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 3 Against 49
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u275	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1050, 1091 and 1109. I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 1050.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u276	This amendment, resulting from the information report by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and Mrs Ericka Bareigts on health prevention for young people, proposes to strengthen the policy of prevention of our health system. It aims to create a cross-cutting policy document on health prevention. This is a recommendation made by the Court of Auditors in 2011 which was taken up by the report I cited. The preventive shift that we call for requires the coherence of the various funding and types of financing for prevention, as well as more information that opens the way for Parliament's control. It is therefore necessary to have a document presenting the strategic directions of the State, the various means affected and their distribution by budgetary programme in order to offer a comprehensive vision of the financing of prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u277	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1091.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u278	This amendment, tabled by Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, received a favourable opinion from the draftswoman for opinion that I am and was adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs. Its purpose is to establish a cross-cutting policy document to clarify the guidelines of the prevention policy and the means allocated to it and to enhance the transparency necessary for Parliament's control. The Minister indicated the amount of money spent by the CNAM on this policy. It is important that a document show the distribution by programme of budgetary appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u279	I call Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille to support Amendment No. 1109.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u280	I am very pleased to present this amendment and I thank all those who will vote in advance. I associate Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, who tabled it in committee, and Mrs Ericka Bareigts with whom I have worked on this subject. The amendment repeats one of the recommendations of the report we have drawn up, which IGAS also makes. To develop a prevention policy, it is necessary to know the different figures on which it is based. Prevention goes beyond the strict framework of health. The cross-cutting policy document, by drawing up the list of total expenditure, will make it possible to build a serious prevention policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u281	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u282	I am very sensitive, like everyone here, to the issue of health prevention. This must be at the heart of our health care system. I am also in favour of improving Parliament's information. Minister, you have raised the interdepartmental dimension of spending on prevention policy. When several ministries are involved, it seems interesting to me to have a budget document on cross-cutting policy. I regret that the Finance Committee has rejected the amendment. Personally, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u284	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am in favour of these amendments. It is also true for the minister that I am, having made prevention the first focus of our health strategy: it is important to know the means that the various ministries devote to prevention – I am thinking of the Ministry of National Education, which takes care of children's health education. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] However, I would point out that the cross-cutting policy document only concerns the state budget. It will therefore be necessary to cross-reference its information with those of the PLFSS, which records, in particular, the expenditure of the CNAM in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u285	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u286	I am satisfied with the Minister's comments, because it was not clear how to decline the policy of prevention in the budget. The creation of the cross-cutting policy document represents a real commitment by the committee and also by Parliament – I hope that the House will be sensitive to the positive opinions of the Special Rapporteur and the Minister – in favour of this revolution policy – the word may be a little strong, but not so much. Indeed, it is now one of the pillars of the national health strategy. I am one of the parliamentarians, but also of the professionals, who are passionate about prevention, because it is a major public health issue for all citizens. It is also a way of spreading the culture of prevention to all that is being asked by the administration – I am not sure it is happy about it – to do this work. This represents a real step forward. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Perhaps we will be able to take an even more ambitious step in the near future: to move on to a budget yellow, in order to embrace the whole policy of prevention, particularly the action of the communities in this field. In any case, it is a day of great satisfaction. If Parliament actually votes in favour of this measure, I would like to thank all those who will contribute to its subsequent implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u287	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u288	Our group is very much in favour of these amendments and will vote for them. We will indeed take a big step today: we will finally have a document that will show the investment made by many organizations in the field of prevention, which will allow us to explain more easily what prevention is and what can be done through it. I agree with you, minister: showing what the state is doing is a very good thing, but many other actors, including communities, are investing in prevention. Perhaps the next challenge is the local declination of prevention at the national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u289	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u290	[[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] Our group will also vote for these amendments, which fully reflect – I would point out – the spirit of a bill that we defended a few days ago in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, it will be my pleasure to meet you this afternoon at 15.00 p.m....
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u292	Can we complete the review of the Health Mission's appropriations, Mr. President? There are only four amendments left! That would prevent the minister from coming back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u293	No, we'll do it this afternoon! We too have work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u294	No, my dear colleague, several groups have asked for a public vote on the following amendment. So we'll talk to her this afternoon. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-08-O1053.u295	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2019: further to the review of the appropriations of the "Health" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" missions; review of the appropriations of the Mission "Relationship with local authorities" and the Special Account "Advances to local authorities". The meeting is adjourned.
